---

title: Software and metadata structures for distributed and interactive database architecture for parallel and asynchronous data processing of complex data and for real-time query processing
abstract: The various embodiments of the invention provide software and metadata structures for a data processing system and method, for applications such as marketing campaign management, speech recognition and signal processing. An exemplary system embodiment includes a first data repository adapted to store a plurality of entity and attribute data; a second data repository adapted to store a plurality of entity linkage data; a metadata data repository adapted to store a plurality of metadata modules, with a first metadata module having a plurality of selectable parameters, received through a control interface, and having a plurality of metadata linkages to a first subset of metadata modules; and a multidimensional data structure. The control interface may modify the plurality of selectable parameters in response to received control information. A plurality of processing nodes are adapted to use the plurality of selectable parameters to assemble a first plurality of data from the first and second data repositories and from input data, to reduce the first plurality of data to form a second plurality of data, and to aggregate and dimension the second plurality of data for storage in the multidimensional data structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454578&OS=09454578&RS=09454578
owner: Experian Marketing Solutions, Inc.
number: 09454578
owner_city: Schaumburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151129
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to Joseph Kevin Anzalone et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 287 007 filed May 24 2014 titled Software and Metadata Structures for Distributed And Interactive Database Architecture For Parallel And Asynchronous Data Processing Of Complex Data And For Real Time Query Processing which is a division of and claims priority to Joseph Kevin Anzalone et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 366 284 filed Feb. 4 2012 and issued Jul. 8 2014 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 775 473 titled Software and Metadata Structures for Distributed And Interactive Database Architecture For Parallel And Asynchronous Data Processing Of Complex Data And For Real Time Query Processing which is a continuation of and claims priority to Joseph Kevin Anzalone et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 719 217 filed Mar. 8 2010 and issued Mar. 13 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 135 747 titled Software and Metadata Structures for Distributed And Interactive Database Architecture For Parallel And Asynchronous Data Processing Of Complex Data And For Real Time Query Processing which is a continuation of and claims priority to Joseph Kevin Anzalone et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 151 137 filed Jun. 13 2005 and issued Apr. 27 2010 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 707 163 titled Software and Metadata Structures for Distributed And Interactive Database Architecture For Parallel And Asynchronous Data Processing Of Complex Data And For Real Time Query Processing which are commonly assigned herewith the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference with the same full force and effect as if set forth in their entireties herein and with priority claimed for all commonly disclosed subject matter.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 151 137 is also a continuation in part of and claims priority to Nevzat Hurkan Balkir et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 137 618 filed May 25 2005 and issued Aug. 13 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 510 329 entitled Distributed And Interactive Database Architecture For Parallel And Asynchronous Data Processing Of Complex Data And Real Time Query Processing which is commonly assigned herewith the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein and with priority claimed for all commonly disclosed subject matter the related application .

The present invention in general relates to database management systems and more particularly relates to a software and metadata structures for distributed and interactive database architecture for parallel and asynchronous data processing of complex data and real time query processing with a plurality of applications such as for example marketing campaign management scientific research and speech and signal processing.

Data processing of complex types of data such as processing of millions to hundreds of millions of records of individuals businesses and other entities has historically been performed as a batch process using large mainframe computers. These large quantities of data were typically input into the processing system using a physical medium such as magnetic tape or electronic magnetic disk. Once data processing began the process would continue largely uninterrupted over the course of several hours to several weeks and output data would be provided.

For marketing campaigns such as catalogue mailings promotional mailings and offers a client or other system user would request the use of various databases and mailing lists as input data and would then be required to specify in advance of data processing how the data should be segmented to provide the resulting campaign list such as a mailing list. For example the various lists and databases may include hundreds of millions of records of individuals while the resulting campaign would be for a mailing to 10 000 individuals who meet certain criteria such as home ownership previous purchasing patterns and so on.

Similarly in various scientific and medical research areas such as phase three drug evaluations huge amounts of data may be generated which must be processed to detect various statistical patterns such as efficacy in a larger population dosage requirements significant side effects and interactions with other drugs. In addition many studies are conducted in numerous locations with data collected throughout the world. Again vast quantities of data must be processed and must result in a selection of individuals who meet certain criteria such as having certain adverse reactions.

In other areas such as speech and signal processing vast quantities of data may be collected and must be analyzed. For accurate speech recognition and speech generation vast data stores may be generated for thousands of analog electronic signals which must be digitized and parsed into corresponding phonemes for thousands of words for thousands of sentences in any of numerous languages each with potentially different pitch timing and loudness collectively prosody each with different co articulations based on preceding and subsequent words and phonemes and each from thousands of individuals. In addition huge amounts of data to be analyzed may be collected such as for intelligence services to analyze speech signals received from mobile communications for potentially unlawful or dangerous activities. Again vast quantities of data must be processed and must result in a selection of words and corresponding pronunciations that meet certain criteria such as having a likelihood of fit to selected phoneme patterns from a plurality of different speakers of a plurality of different languages with high discrimination and noise immunity.

Because of the batch processing environment of the computing systems required to manage such large data volumes in the prior art all such segmentation or other selection criteria had to be specified in advance. Unfortunately the selection criteria may not be known in advance particularly where the determination of the selection criteria is itself dependent upon the accumulated data such as in areas of marketing campaigns scientific research and speech and signal processing. In addition based upon the data results a user may want to modify the selection criteria and is unable to do so in prior art systems without repeating all of the processing with the modified criteria.

Other prior art forms of real time data analysis have largely been confined to significantly less complex data types typically solely numerical data such as sales and revenue data capable of straightforward arithmetic and algebraic manipulations e.g. sums and averages and numerical methods of analysis e.g. Riemann summation . Prior art data analysis systems have not succeeded at providing real time analysis of more complicated data particularly complex data which requires set operations and not arithmetic manipulations. For example prior art data analysis systems have not allowed for real time data analysis of voluminous personal attribute data for marketing campaign determination and management to provide a resulting set of individuals or households who meet certain criteria particularly where the criteria may be determined dynamically and interactively in real time.

A need remains therefore for a database system architecture which can process such vast amounts of complex data in parallel and asynchronously for higher data throughput which provides for set operations and which allows real time query processing for user interactivity such as for data analysis and modifying selection criteria. Such a database system architecture should be capable of processing complicated data types from personal attribute data to speech and signal processing data.

The various exemplary embodiments of the present invention provide a data processing system and architecture for distributed processes which can be performed in parallel and asynchronously not only providing for high speed data processing but also providing effective and valuable decoupling of the provision of output data from the provision of input data. The various exemplary embodiments utilize a new form of metadata which is not only utilized to define data relationships and data structures but also is utilized to define processes to be performed on the data. The inventive metadata of the various exemplary embodiments is comprised of a plurality of parameterized metadata modules and metadata linkages providing for both dynamic and static parameters and allowing the various systems and processes to be fully customizable fully standardized and everything in between.

The exemplary systems and processes provide for user interactivity with a user enabled to provide input and make selections and decisions throughout extensive data processing and to modify previous decisions. Furthermore such selections and decisions may be made of the basis of actual data analysis and segmentation provided through real time user queries and system query responses. The exemplary systems and processes allow for the introduction of artificial intelligence processing with an analytic recommendation processor or engine also referred to as an information consultant provided to aid in the various user selections and decisions also based on actual data analysis and segmentation.

The various exemplary embodiments may be applied to a wide variety of data and signal processing applications including marketing campaign management speech and signal processing and scientific research.

In a first exemplary embodiment a data processing system for marketing campaign management comprises a plurality of data repositories a control interface a multidimensional data structure and a plurality of processing nodes. A first data repository of the plurality of data repositories is adapted to store a plurality of entity and attribute data. A second data repository of the plurality of data repositories is adapted to store a plurality of entity linkage data. A metadata data repository of the plurality of data repositories is adapted to store a plurality of metadata modules in which a first metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules has a plurality of selectable parameters received through the control interface. The plurality of processing nodes are adapted to use the plurality of selectable parameters to assemble a first plurality of data from the first and second data repositories and from input data to reduce the first plurality of data to form a second plurality of data and to aggregate and dimension the second plurality of data for storage in the multidimensional data structure.

In the various exemplary embodiments the control interface is further adapted to modify the plurality of selectable parameters in response to received control information. The various exemplary embodiments may also include a data input adapted to receive information from a plurality of data sources selectable through the control interface. The control interface may further comprise a user interface which is adapted to provide for selection of the plurality of selectable parameters selection of a plurality of attributes for data processing selection and ordering of a subset of data processes of the plurality of data processes and selection of a plurality of dimensions for aggregation.

The first metadata module has a corresponding plurality of metadata linkages to a first subset of metadata modules of the plurality of metadata modules wherein the corresponding plurality of metadata linkages comprise at least one of the following metadata linkage types a communicated parameter of the plurality of modifiable parameters a communicated attribute of a plurality of attributes a process definition a process flow or a process communication.

In the various exemplary embodiments the plurality of processing nodes may be adapted to perform in parallel and asynchronously at least two of the following processes a data input process a data layout process a data conversion process a data correction process a data audit process a data matching process a linkage assignment process a data coding process a data enhancement process a data change detection process or a data update process. The plurality of processing nodes may also be adapted to use modeled information to provide a version of the plurality of selectable parameters. In the various exemplary embodiments the plurality of processing nodes may be further adapted to reduce the first plurality of data to form the second plurality of data in parallel and asynchronously and to store in an associated memory interim results comprising entity linkage data having a plurality of persistent identifiers using at least one of the following processes a data netdown process a data suppression process or a data prioritization process.

In the various exemplary embodiments at least one processing node of the plurality of processing nodes may be adapted to process a query and provide a query response using the multidimensional data structure. In addition in exemplary embodiments at least one processing node of the plurality of processing nodes may be adapted to determine a plurality of sets from the multidimensional data structure and to perform a plurality of set operations on the plurality of sets the plurality of set operations comprising union operations and difference operations such as to determine a plurality of mutually exclusive sets from a plurality of sequential union sets by forming a difference set by subtracting a previous union set from a next union set.

In the various exemplary embodiments the plurality of processing nodes may be further adapted to use a modified plurality of selectable parameters to reduce the first plurality of data to form a modified second plurality of data to use the modified plurality of selectable parameters to aggregate and dimension the modified second plurality of data or to use a modified plurality of selectable parameters to re aggregate and re dimension the second plurality of data.

Also in the various exemplary embodiments at least one processing node of the plurality of processing nodes may be adapted to provide a plurality of dimensions for aggregation of the second plurality of data or adapted to dimension the second plurality of data using a plurality of attribute ranges selectable through the control interface.

Also in the various exemplary embodiments the plurality of processing nodes are further adapted to provide a marketing campaign fulfillment process in which the marketing campaign fulfillment process comprising at least one of the following processes report generation postal services postal presort services inkjet services printing preparation services shipping services data extraction email formatting generation of a magnetic tape disk or electronic file having selected names and physical addresses generation of email addresses selected content determination selected communication channel determination variable formatting and variable layout.

In the various exemplary embodiments the system may also include a data processing selection and planning node coupled to the plurality of processing nodes the data processing selection and planning node adapted to provide the plurality of selectable parameters in response to user input.

Also in the various exemplary embodiments the plurality of metadata modules define the plurality of data processes and further define a plurality of data structures stored in the plurality of data repositories. The plurality of metadata modules may be comprised of at least two metadata modules of the following group a parties module an accounting module a hardware resource module an activities definition module a service invocation module a process definition module a marketing campaign definition module a list selection module a list layout module and a data enhancement module. In selected embodiments the marketing campaign definition module has a metadata linkage to the activities definition module wherein the activities definition module defines a plurality of activities comprising a selected marketing campaign the activities definition module has a metadata linkage to the process definition module wherein the process definition module defines the plurality of data processes comprising a selected activity and the parties module and the activities definition module each have a metadata linkage to the accounting module wherein the accounting module tracks costs and expenses associated with a plurality of activities for a selected party of a plurality of parties defined in the parties module.

The entity linkage data may comprise plurality of persistent identifiers linking individual or household entities to a corresponding plurality of attributes the corresponding plurality of attributes comprising at least two of the attributes of the following group of attributes name current address name and address variations previous address age gender income social security number vehicle ownership marital status spouse name spouse address children names children addresses household identification home ownership purchasing histories marketing responses and employment histories.

Also in the various exemplary embodiments the plurality of data repositories comprises one or more databases having relational schema a data warehouse having relational schema and a data mart having a star or snowflake schema and the multidimensional data structure has a multidimensional on line analytical processing OLAP data cube schema. The plurality of data repositories may be embodied as one or more of the following group of data storage devices a stored area network SAN magnetic disk array a memory a mainframe file system partitioned database storage a Unix file system or a Windows file system while the plurality of processing nodes may be embodied as one or more of the following group of processors a mainframe processing node a clustered database node a Unix application node or a Windows application node.

In another exemplary embodiment a data processing system includes a control interface adapted to receive a first plurality of selectable parameters a second plurality of selectable parameters and a third plurality of selectable parameters the control interface further adapted to modify the first second and third pluralities of selectable parameters in response to received control information a data input adapted to receive input data a data and messaging network coupled to the control interface and to the data input interface a first data repository coupled to the data and messaging network the first data repository adapted to store a plurality of entity data and a plurality of corresponding entity attribute data a linkage data repository coupled to the data and messaging network the linkage data repository adapted to store a plurality of unique and persistent identifiers wherein each persistent identifier corresponds to each unique entity a data assembly processor coupled to the data and messaging network the data assembly processor adapted to use the first plurality of selectable parameters to generate a first plurality of data from the first data repository from the linkage data repository and from input data a second data repository coupled to the data and messaging network the second data repository adapted to store the first plurality of data a data reduction processor coupled to the data and messaging network the data reduction processor adapted to use the second plurality of selectable parameters to generate a second plurality of data from the first plurality of data a third data repository coupled to the data and messaging network the third data repository adapted to store the second plurality of data an aggregation processor coupled to the data and messaging network the aggregation processor adapted to use the third plurality of selectable parameters to aggregate and dimension the second plurality of data and a multidimensional data structure coupled to the data and messaging network the multidimensional data structure adapted to store the aggregated and dimensioned second plurality of data.

In another exemplary embodiment a parallel and asynchronous data processing system for marketing campaign management includes a user interface a control interface a plurality of data processing nodes coupled through a data and messaging network to the user interface and to the control interface the plurality of data processing nodes adapted to process data a first data repository coupled through the data and messaging network to the plurality of data processing nodes the first data repository adapted to store a plurality of entity name and address information and a plurality of corresponding entity attribute information a linkage data repository coupled through the data and messaging network to the plurality of data processing nodes the linkage data repository adapted to store a plurality of unique and persistent identifiers wherein each persistent identifier corresponds to each unique entity a second data repository coupled through the data and messaging network to the plurality of data processing nodes the second data repository adapted to store a first subset of information from the first data repository and the linkage data repository the first subset of information including a first subset of entity attribute information an aggregated and multidimensional data structure coupled through the data and messaging network to the plurality of data processing nodes the aggregated and multidimensional data structure having an aggregation of the first subset of information dimensioned with a first plurality of selected attributes of the first subset of entity attribute information wherein the first plurality of selected attributes are adapted to be modifiable during data processing through the user interface or the control interface and wherein the plurality of data processing nodes are further adapted to determine the first subset of information stored in the second data repository and to aggregate and dimension the first subset of information using the first plurality of selected attributes.

In another exemplary embodiment a data processing method for marketing campaign management includes storing a plurality of entity and attribute data in a first data repository of a plurality of data repositories storing a plurality of entity linkage data in a second data repository of the plurality of data repositories receiving a plurality of selectable parameters storing a plurality of metadata modules in a metadata data repository of the plurality of data repositories a first metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules referencing the plurality of selectable parameters using the plurality of selectable parameters assembling a first plurality of data from the first and second data repositories and from input data using the plurality of selectable parameters reducing the first plurality of data to form a second plurality of data using the plurality of selectable parameters aggregating and dimensioning the second plurality of data and storing the aggregated and dimensioned second plurality of data in a multidimensional data structure.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a tangible medium storing computer readable software for programming a parallel and asynchronous database architecture and data processing system for execution of marketing campaign management and analysis comprising a plurality of program means such as computer or server executable instructions. The plurality of program means include first program means for receiving a plurality of selectable parameters for modifying the plurality of selectable parameters in response to received control information or in response to modeled information to form a modified plurality of selectable parameters second program means for storing a plurality of entity and attribute data in a first data repository of a plurality of data repositories and for storing a plurality of entity linkage data in a second data repository of the plurality of data repositories and for storing a plurality of metadata modules in a metadata data repository of the plurality of data repositories a first metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules referencing the plurality of selectable parameters third program means for using the plurality of selectable parameters to assemble in parallel and asynchronously a first plurality of data from the first and second data repositories and from input data to reduce the first plurality of data to form a second plurality of data and to dimension and aggregate the second plurality of data fourth program means for storing the dimensioned and aggregated second plurality of data in a multidimensional data structure fifth program means for processing a query and providing a query response using the multidimensional data structure and sixth program means for using the modified plurality of selectable parameters to reduce the first plurality of data to form a modified second plurality of data and using the modified plurality of selectable parameters to dimension and aggregate the modified second plurality of data.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a tangible medium storing computer readable program instructions for execution by a computer system for marketing campaign management and analysis. The tangible medium storing computer readable program instructions comprises a first metadata construct of a plurality of metadata constructs the first metadata construct defining a plurality of data processes for marketing campaign management a second metadata construct of the plurality of metadata constructs the second metadata construct having a corresponding metadata linkage to the first metadata construct of a plurality of metadata linkages the second metadata construct defining a first plurality of relational data structures for a first plurality of data repositories of the computer system the second metadata construct further defining a multidimensional data structure for a second data repository for marketing campaign analysis and a third metadata construct of the plurality of metadata constructs the third metadata construct having a corresponding metadata linkage to the first metadata construct of the plurality of metadata linkages the third metadata construct defining a plurality of input data sources and a plurality of selectable attributes.

The exemplary embodiment may also include a fourth metadata construct adapted to provide a plurality of modifiable parameters to the first metadata construct the plurality of modifiable parameters providing for selection of the plurality of input data sources and selection of a first subset of the plurality of data processes for execution by the computer system. The plurality of selectable input data sources comprise a plurality of databases and marketing lists containing a plurality of attributes the plurality of attributes comprising at least two attribute types of the following group of attribute types a name attribute an address attribute a demographic attribute a behavioral attribute or an attitudinal attribute.

The exemplary embodiment may also include a fifth metadata construct adapted to execute the first subset of the plurality of data processes in parallel and asynchronously using the plurality of modifiable parameters and a corresponding plurality of metadata linkages to other metadata constructs. The first subset of the plurality of data processes comprises at least two data assembly processes of the following group of data assembly processes a data input process a data layout process a data conversion process a data correction process a data audit process a data matching process a linkage assignment process a linkage selection process a data coding process a data enhancement process a data change detection process or a data update process. A second subset of the plurality of data processes comprises at least one data reduction process of the following group of data reduction processes a data netdown process a data suppression process or a data prioritization process.

The exemplary embodiment may also include a third subset of the plurality of data processes which are are adapted to use the multidimensional data structure to process a received query and to provide a query response.

The plurality of metadata linkages typically comprise at least one metadata linkage type of the following group of metadata linkage types a common or communicated parameter of the plurality of modifiable parameters a common or communicated attribute of a plurality of attributes a common process definition a common process flow or a communication between processes.

The exemplary embodiment may also include a sixth metadata construct of plurality of metadata constructs the sixth metadata construct adapted to track each data process invocation of a plurality of data process invocations a seventh metadata construct of the plurality of metadata constructs the seventh metadata construct adapted to associate a cost factor with each data process invocation of a plurality of data process invocations an eighth metadata construct of the plurality of metadata constructs the eighth metadata construct adapted to associate a resource usage factor with each data process invocation of a plurality of data process invocations and a ninth metadata construct of the plurality of metadata constructs the ninth metadata construct defining a plurality of marketing campaigns each marketing campaign of the plurality of marketing campaigns associated with a corresponding selection of data processes of the plurality of data processes and each marketing campaign of the plurality of marketing campaigns associated with a corresponding party of a plurality of parties.

The exemplary embodiment may also include a tenth metadata construct of the plurality of metadata constructs the tenth metadata construct adapted to use the plurality of selectable attributes for a dimensioning and aggregating data for storage in the multidimensional data structure.

The exemplary embodiment may also include an eleventh program construct adapted to determine a plurality of available variations of at least one of the following selectable data processes selectable data attributes or selectable data segmentations a twelfth program construct adapted to provide data modeling and data analysis using the plurality of modifiable parameters the plurality of selectable input data sources and the plurality of selectable attributes and a thirteenth program construct adapted to provide at least one selection recommendation for the plurality of modifiable parameters the plurality of selectable input data sources or the plurality of selectable attributes.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a tangible medium storing computer readable software for programming a parallel and asynchronous database architecture and data processing system for marketing campaign management and analysis. The tangible medium storing computer readable software comprises a first program construct of a plurality of program constructs the first program construct comprising a plurality of modifiable parameters adapted to be modifiable during data processing the first program construct further defining a plurality of selectable input data sources and a plurality of selectable attributes a second program construct of the plurality of program constructs the second program construct having a corresponding metadata linkage to the first program construct the second program construct defining a plurality of data structures for a plurality of data repositories of the computer system the plurality of data structures comprising at least one relational data structure and at least one multidimensional data structure a third program construct of the plurality of program constructs the second program construct having corresponding metadata linkages to the first and second program constructs the third program construct adapted to provide for execution of a plurality of data processes using the plurality of modifiable parameters the plurality of input data sources and the plurality of selectable attributes the third program construct further adapted to store a plurality of results of the plurality of data processes in the plurality of data structures and a fourth program construct of the plurality of program constructs the fourth program construct having corresponding metadata linkages to the first second and third program constructs the fourth program construct adapted to use the plurality of selectable attributes for a dimensioning and aggregating data for storage in the multidimensional data structure.

The plurality of data processes may also be adapted to execute in parallel and asynchronously using a plurality of data processing nodes of the data processing system. The exemplary embodiment may also provide for the storage in a memory or in a database of a corresponding plurality of interim results from the asynchronous and parallel execution of the plurality of data processes which may be as a corresponding set of unique identifiers.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a tangible medium storing computer readable program instructions for execution by a computer system for marketing campaign management and analysis. The tangible medium storing computer readable program instructions comprises a first program module defining a plurality of modifiable parameters adapted to be modifiable during data processing and a plurality of selectable attributes a second program module defining a plurality of selectable input data sources the plurality of selectable input data sources comprising at least one consumer database and a plurality of consumer lists of individuals and households a third program module defining a plurality of data structures for a plurality of data repositories of the computer system the plurality of data structures comprising a first relational data structure a second relational data structure storing a subset of information from the first relational data structure and at least one multidimensional data structure a fourth program module adapted to execute a plurality of marketing campaign management data processes using the plurality of modifiable parameters the plurality of selectable input data sources and the plurality of selectable attributes the fourth program construct further adapted to perform a first plurality of data assembly processes and store assembled data in the first relational data structure and to perform a second plurality of data reduction processes on the assembled data and store reduced data in the second relational data structure a fifth program module adapted to use the plurality of selectable attributes for dimensioning and aggregation of the reduced data for storage in the multidimensional data structure a sixth program module to correlate invocation of the plurality of marketing campaign management data processes with accounting functions and resource utilization and a seventh program module to track selection of the plurality of consumer lists.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a tangible medium storing a plurality of metadata modules for execution by a computer system for marketing campaign management and analysis the tangible medium comprising a first metadata module of a plurality of metadata modules the first metadata module comprising a plurality of modifiable parameters adapted to be modifiable during data processing a second metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules the second metadata module defining a plurality of selectable input data sources comprising at least one consumer database and a plurality of consumer lists a third metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules the third metadata module defining a plurality of data structures for a plurality of data repositories of the data processing system the plurality of data structures comprising a first relational data structure storing a first subset of information a second relational data structure storing a second subset of information from the first relational data structure and at least one multidimensional data structure storing a third subset of information from the second relational data structure which has been dimensioned and aggregated a fourth metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules the fourth metadata module having corresponding metadata linkages to the first second and third metadata modules the fourth metadata module adapted to execute a plurality of data assembly processes using the plurality of selectable input data sources and the plurality of modifiable parameters to form the first subset of information the fourth metadata module further adapted to execute a plurality of data reduction processes using plurality of modifiable parameters to form the second subset of information a fifth metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules the fifth metadata module adapted to dimension and aggregate the second subset of information to form the third subset of information using a plurality of selectable attributes a sixth metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules the sixth metadata module adapted to perform a plurality of set operation on the third subset of information using the plurality of selectable attributes a seventh metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules the seventh metadata module adapted to utilize the multidimensional data structure to process a query and to generate a response to the query and an eighth metadata module of the plurality of metadata modules the eighth metadata module adapted to provide at least one selection recommendation for the plurality of modifiable parameters the plurality of selectable input data sources or the plurality of selectable attributes.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention provides tangible medium storing computer readable software for programming a parallel and asynchronous database architecture and data processing system for marketing campaign management and analysis. The tangible medium storing computer readable software comprises a first program construct of a plurality of program constructs the first program construct comprising a plurality of modifiable parameters adapted to be modifiable during data processing a second program construct of a plurality of program constructs the second program construct having a corresponding metadata linkage to the first program construct the second program construct adapted to obtain a first modifiable parameter of the plurality of modifiable parameters from the first program construct the second program construct further adapted to provide for execution of a first data process of a plurality of data processes using the first modifiable parameter a third program construct of the plurality of program constructs the third program construct having a second metadata linkage to the first program construct the third program construct adapted to obtain a second modifiable parameter of the plurality of modifiable parameters from the first program construct the third program construct adapted to execute a multithreaded data process of the plurality of data processes in parallel and asynchronously using the second modifiable parameter through a plurality of third metadata linkages to a subset of program constructs of the plurality of program constructs wherein a selected program construct of the subset of program constructs is further adapted to perform a set intersection operation on a corresponding plurality of sets of unique identifiers resulting from the asynchronous and parallel execution of the multithreaded process and wherein a first subset of modifiable parameters of the plurality of modifiable parameters define a plurality of selectable input data sources a second subset of modifiable parameters of the plurality of modifiable parameters define a plurality of selectable attributes and wherein the plurality of data processes comprise at least two of the following data processes a data assembly process a data reduction process a data aggregation process or a data fulfillment process.

These and additional embodiments are discussed in greater detail below. Numerous other advantages and features of the present invention will become readily apparent from the following detailed description of the invention and the embodiments thereof from the claims and from the accompanying drawings.

While the present invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there are shown in the drawings and will be described herein in detail specific examples and embodiments thereof with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific examples and embodiments illustrated.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to identify identical components in the various views is a block diagram illustrating exemplary system interaction metadata and process flows of the various exemplary system and method embodiments in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. The various system embodiments are discussed in greater detail with reference to .

Referring to a plurality of metadata modules are utilized to define and specify system processes flows versions parameters modifiable dynamic and unmodifiable static entities attributes users clients hardware resources data sources data repositories data relationships and data structures and all other features utilized in the various exemplary systems. The metadata modules are interconnected illustrated as interconnections with the interconnections referred to as metadata linkages to distinguish other forms of linkage utilized with the various embodiments of the invention. The various metadata linkages may occur in a variety of ways such as through shared or otherwise common or communicated parameters common shared attributes common or communicated process definitions and common or communicated process elements or flows for example. The various parameters dynamic and static are illustrated as parameters as additional illustration of metadata linkage through parameter sharing such as parameters utilized across multiple processes defined by a corresponding plurality of metadata modules . As discussed below the metadata modules are typically implemented as a form of software or programming instructions such as in various forms of SQL SEQUEL MY SQL DB2 ORACLE C C Java XML and may be developed through one or more corresponding and commercially available application programming interfaces APIs provided by many service and software companies.

The systems are comprised of a plurality of data repositories and data structures and a plurality of processing nodes . As illustrated in the various data repositories and data structures include data sources data warehouse data mart and multidimensional data structure . The plurality of processing nodes perform a plurality of data processes illustrated as data assembly processes data reduction processes aggregate and dimension processes and a fulfillment process and may do so in parallel and asynchronously depending upon the selected embodiment. As a consequence any data output has been effectively decoupled from data input allowing tremendous versatility for rapid data processing data updating data analysis and modeling and other data processes.

The various metadata modules are illustrated as correspondingly mapping to the plurality of data processes data sources inputs and data repositories and data structures as the metadata modules define the processes provide for invocation of the processes determine the data structures to be utilized or created provide for various needed parameters attribute selection data input selection and other customizable features. As a consequence the metadata of the present invention is parameterized namely providing for the use of variable or dynamic parameters such as varying confidence levels attribute choices process selection process ordering and so on in addition to providing for static parameters. Through the parameterized metadata the data processing of the present invention may be provided in different versions different process flows and may be completely customizable. In addition through the use of default values the data processing of the present invention may be completely standardized or fixed. Through a combination of default and selected values the data processing of the present invention provides a complete panorama from fully customizable to fully standardized and everything in between.

The parameters attribute selection process selection process ordering selected dimensions for aggregation into the multidimensional data structure and other customizable features may be entered into the system through a user or control interface or terminal such as through a graphical user interface on a personal computer coupled to the exemplary systems through a network such as a LAN or the Internet. Through the user or control interface virtually all aspects of the data processing may be controlled and controlled interactively and dynamically. For example at the beginning of the data processing a user may make selections concerning which data sources and data inputs will be utilized which processes e.g. will be utilized using which parameters and using which selected attributes . At other times during the data processing indicated as a subsequent time a user may make other or additional selections concerning which processes parameters and attributes will be utilized and may also modify earlier selections and decisions .

As a significant consequence important decisions may be made throughout the data processing and may be made based on real time data analytics segmentation and modeling such as by evaluating various what if scenarios using the actual data which has been generated. This intelligence is provided through the use of interactive and real time queries and responses providing different analyses and segmentation of the multidimensional data structure . In addition various decision suggestions may be received by the user from the analytic recommendation processor based for example upon modeling and analytics such as modeling from previous marketing campaigns and modeling from real time analyses and segmentation of the multidimensional data structure .

The exemplary embodiments of the invention also provide for massively parallel and asynchronous data processing. Such processing is supported by the plurality of metadata modules which are also adapted to provide for execution of such multithreaded data processes across multiple processors.

The system may also be examined in conjunction with which are block diagrams illustrating second exemplary system and third exemplary system embodiments in accordance with the teachings of the present invention and which provide a different level of detail of the various system embodiments or and the various exemplary subsystems or nodes of the present invention. For example referring to depending upon the selected embodiment the various one or more mainframe process nodes clustered database nodes Unix application nodes Windows application nodes network nodes and control systems may include be comprised of or otherwise be represented by processing nodes and or . Similarly the various data storage systems of such as the mainframe file systems partitioned database storage Unix file systems and Windows file systems may include be comprised of or otherwise be represented by database and or file systems .

Correspondingly referring to depending upon the selected embodiment the various processing elements such as data assembly processor data reduction processor aggregation processor fulfillment processor analytic recommendation processor and data processing selection and planning node may include be comprised of or otherwise be represented by processing nodes and or . Similarly the various data storage systems of such as the database file and media systems data warehouse data mart and analytics and segmentation processing data structure data cube may include be comprised of or otherwise be represented by database and or file systems . As a consequence the methodology and systems of the present invention should be understood by those of skill in the art to be adapted to or capable of implementation using any form or type of hardware currently known or which may become available in the future with all such physical implementations considered equivalent and within the scope of the present invention. For example exemplary processes which may currently operate on mainframe process nodes such as legacy software applications may be migrated or ported to other processing nodes such as clustered database nodes Unix application nodes Windows application nodes .

The various exemplary embodiments of the invention will be explained in detail with regard to a particular voluminous computationally and data intensive process such as marketing campaign management segmentation and analysis. Those of skill in the art will recognize that the data structures systems principles and procedures discussed below are equally applicable to other typically voluminous difficult or intractable data processing tasks with additional applications to diverse fields such as medical and scientific research speech and signal processing and so on with additional illustrated examples discussed below.

As illustrated in the processing node is a computer system embodiment e.g. a mainframe computer a personal computer a computer workstation or any other computer having processing power sufficient to execute the exemplary method discussed below comprising an input and output I O interface one or more processors and a memory storing one or more databases or file systems individually and collectively referred to as data repositories A. The memory may be external such as an external magnetic disk tape or optical drive or may be internal such as random access memory cache memory and so on. The processing node such as an open or network system comprises one or more data repositories or databases B also embodied in a form of memory discussed below a database management server and or an application server . Additional file and or database systems C and D are directly coupled to data messaging network for access from any processing node or other computer or other type of user interface or user control node . A data repository database and data warehouse as used herein are considered interchangeable and may be relational object oriented object relational or use files or flat files or any combinations of the above. Databases A B C and D are instantiations of one or more databases data warehouses data marts or data cubes discussed in greater detail below. Reference to a data cube will be understood to mean a particular multidimensional instantiation of such a database adapted in advance through an aggregation process discussed below for particularly responsive query processing and which typically will have a plurality of different views which may be materialized e.g. a lattice of views .

In the exemplary embodiments of processing node the database management server and the application server may be implemented together such as implemented within the application server . Either or both of the database management server and the application server are connected or coupled or couplable to the one or more data repositories or databases B for full duplex communication such as for database queries database file or record transfers database updates and other forms of database communication. In the processing node the database management server and or the application server perform the methodology of the invention utilizing a correspondingly adapted programmed or configured processor as discussed below not separately illustrated such as a processor illustrated for processing node in conjunction with one or more databases such as one or more databases B .

The databases A B C and D may be ODBC compliant Open Database Connectivity although this is not required for the present invention or may be mainframe or proprietary. The processing node processing node and databases are coupled to one another through a data and messaging network typically implemented as one or more data and messaging busses and may also be coupled to or may be part of a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN such as for full duplex communication with a plurality of computers or other terminals also for database queries database file or record transfers database updates and other forms of database communication. The LAN WAN and data and messaging network communication capability provides for local and remote access to the processing node processing node and databases such as for large file transfers or any batch processing to the extent needed and for processes such as control and data selection and planning through various computers and one or more user control nodes . In addition the systems or may also be directly accessible through input output I O such as for loading of records e.g. magnetic tape records disk records or other media .

The various systems or may also be included within or coupled to a larger data communication network such as through network or web server for full duplex communication with remote devices such as a remote Internet or other network server and remote computer or other terminal . In addition to local access through one or more local computers and user control nodes such remote communication capability provides for the systems or to be accessible for on line functionality discussed in greater detail below such as for web based access using any current or future protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP various email and file transfer protocols e.g. SMTP FTP Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP or any other forms of communication for data voice or multimedia for user input selection evaluation reporting and so on discussed below. The user control nodes may be implemented as known or becomes known in the art such as through a personal computer a client server embodiment a data terminal for example typically having a monitor for display of information such as a video display or computer monitor and having data input means such as a keyboard pointing device e.g. mouse trackball touch pad joystick scanner touch screen microphone voice recognition system keypad and so on.

The data repository or database illustrated as databases A B C and D may be embodied in any number of forms including within any computer or other machine readable data storage medium memory device or other storage or communication device for storage or communication of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data currently known or which becomes available in the future including but not limited to a magnetic hard drive an optical drive a magnetic disk or tape drive a hard disk drive other machine readable storage or memory media such as a floppy disk a CDROM a CD RW digital versatile disk DVD or other optical memory a memory integrated circuit IC or memory portion of an integrated circuit such as the resident memory within a processor IC whether volatile or non volatile whether removable or non removable including without limitation RAM FLASH DRAM SDRAM SRAM MRAM FeRAM ROM EPROM or EPROM or any other type of memory storage medium or data storage apparatus or circuit which is known or which becomes known depending upon the selected embodiment. In addition such computer readable media includes any form of communication media which embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a data signal or modulated signal such as an electromagnetic or optical carrier wave or other transport mechanism including any information delivery media which may encode data or other information in a signal wired or wirelessly including electromagnetic optical acoustic RF or infrared signals and so on.

The network may be any type of bus or network structure or medium using any selected architecture. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus SAN bus or any other communication or signaling medium such as Ethernet ISDN T1 satellite wireless and so on. In the processing node the I O interface may be implemented as known or may become known in the art and as discussed with reference to to provide data communication between the processor and the network using any applicable standard e.g. one of the various PCI USB or Ethernet standards for example and without limitation .

The processing node and processing node further include one or more processors such as processor illustrated for processing node and the other processors referred to in the other system embodiments discussed below. As the term processor is used herein these implementations may include use of a single integrated circuit IC or may include use of a plurality of integrated circuits or other components connected arranged or grouped together such as microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs parallel processors multiple core processors custom ICs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs adaptive computing ICs associated memory such as RAM DRAM and ROM and other ICs and components. As a consequence as used herein the term processor should be understood to equivalently mean and include a single IC or arrangement of custom ICs ASICs processors microprocessors controllers FPGAs adaptive computing ICs or some other grouping of integrated circuits which perform the functions discussed below with associated memory such as microprocessor memory or additional RAM DRAM SDRAM SRAM MRAM ROM EPROM or EPROM. A processor such as processor with its associated memory may be adapted or configured via programming FPGA interconnection or hard wiring to perform the methodology of the invention as discussed above and as further discussed below. For example the methodology may be programmed and stored in a processor with its associated memory and or memory and other equivalent components as a set of program instructions or equivalent configuration or other program for subsequent execution when the processor is operative i.e. powered on and functioning . Equivalently when the processing node and processing node may implemented in whole or part as FPGAs custom ICs and or ASICs the FPGAs custom ICs or ASICs also may be designed configured and or hard wired to implement the methodology of the invention. For example the processing node and processing node may implemented as an arrangement of microprocessors DSPs and or ASICs collectively referred to as a processor which are respectively programmed designed adapted or configured to implement the methodology of the invention in conjunction with one or more databases .

An exemplary one or more data repositories or databases in accordance with the present invention contains public data private data survey data limited access data historical data synthetic data response data intermediate result data retained relationships sets data etc. which themselves may be in the form of one or more relations and or databases as illustrated . In addition exemplary databases may contain the results of the method of the invention as a data structure discussed below. As mentioned above data repository as used herein is considered interchangeable with database and data warehouse and may be relational object oriented or object relational or utilize any other database structure in accordance with a selected embodiment. The database may be integrated namely that the information resides within a singular co located or otherwise centralized database structure or schema or may be a distributed database with information distributed between and among a plurality of databases some of which may be remotely located from the other databases. From another point of view the database may be considered integrated in that a plurality of different tables or types of tables objects or relations are included within the database . Use of any type of data repository whether an integrated database a non integrated database or any otherwise distributed or non distributed database structures or schemas are within the scope of the present invention. Unless otherwise specified while referred to as tables it should be understood that any such tables are to be construed broadly to mean and include relations objects object relations multidimensional relations cubes stars snowflakes flat files or other similar or equivalent database constructs. 

The plurality of processing nodes and the other processors and processing nodes referred to as a data assembly processor data reduction processor aggregation processor fulfillment processor analytic recommendation processor may be implemented using any form of server computer workstation mainframe or other computational device as known or may become known in the art such as a server or other computing device having a processor microprocessor controller digital signal processor DSP adaptive computing circuit or other integrated circuit adapted programmed or configured to perform the methodology of the present invention such as a processor as mentioned above. The system of the present invention generally comprises a memory storing a data repository or database and one or more of such processors. The processor is programmed using data processing software and using other software and data structures defined by the parameterized metadata of the invention for example to perform the methodology of the present invention. As a consequence the system and method of the present invention may be embodied as software which provides such programming such as a set of instructions and or metadata embodied within a computer readable medium discussed above.

More generally the system methods metadata and programs of the present invention may be embodied in any number of forms such as within any type of computer within a workstation within an application server such as application server within a database management server within a computer network within an adaptive computing device or within any other form of computing or other system used to create or contain source code including the various processors and computer readable media mentioned above. Such source code further may be compiled into some form of instructions or object code including assembly language instructions or configuration information . The metadata software or source code of the present invention may be embodied as any type of source code such as SQL and its variations e.g. SQL 99 or proprietary versions of SQL DB2 XML C C Java Oracle or any other type of programming language which performs the functionality discussed herein including various hardware definition languages e.g. Verilog HDL when embodied as an ASIC. As a consequence a construct program construct software construct or software as used herein means and refers to any programming language of any kind with any syntax or signatures which provides or can be interpreted to provide the associated functionality or methodology specified when instantiated or loaded into a processor or computer and executed including any of the plurality of processing nodes or other processors and processing nodes referred to as a data assembly processor data reduction processor aggregation processor analytic recommendation processor or fulfillment processor for example .

The metadata software or other source code of the present invention and any resulting bit file object code or configuration bit sequence may be embodied within any tangible storage medium such as within a memory or storage device for use by a computer a workstation any other machine readable medium or form or any other storage form or medium for use in a computing system. Such storage medium memory or other storage devices may be any type of memory device memory integrated circuit IC or memory portion of an integrated circuit such as the resident memory within a processor IC including without limitation RAM FLASH DRAM SRAM MRAM FeRAM ROM EPROM or EPROM or any other type of memory storage medium or data storage apparatus or circuit depending upon the selected embodiment. For example without limitation a tangible medium storing computer readable metadata or software or other machine readable medium may include a floppy disk a CDROM a CD RW a magnetic hard drive an optical drive a quantum computing storage medium or device a transmitted electromagnetic signal e.g. used in internet downloading or any other type of data storage apparatus or medium as mentioned above.

In addition the various structures and components referred to in are applicable to the other system embodiments discussed below and in the interests of brevity will not be repeated. Similarly the various structures and components referred to in are applicable to the other system embodiments and in the interests of brevity will not be repeated. As a consequence those of skill in the art will recognize that the various systems illustrated below may be embodied in the wide variety of structures and components discussed above and below which are all within the scope of the present invention. As a further consequence reference to any of the various systems or should be understood to mean and include reference to any of the other systems or unless otherwise specified.

Referring to the exemplary system provides a service oriented architecture SOA and includes a plurality of processing nodes control systems and storage or repository structures which are adapted to communicate with each other and with other networks as illustrated in and not separately illustrated in using data and messaging network which may be implemented for example as various data and messaging busses or lines or as other types of communication structures currently known or which becomes known. In exemplary embodiments the data and messaging network is implemented as two types of busses one for large or high bandwidth data transfers and another for messaging and comparatively smaller lower bandwidth data transfers between and among the various nodes and storage devices.

Continuing to refer to the various nodes include without limitation one or more mainframe processing nodes such as mainframe computers one or more clustered database nodes and other computing nodes with various operating systems such as one or more Unix application nodes and one or more Windows application nodes . Communication nodes are also provided using one or more network nodes such as for LAN WAN Internet and other network communications. For example network nodes generally include various application and web servers discussed above and as illustrated in for local or remote communication with users and operators of the system . One or more control systems are also provided which supply metadata from data repository defining the various system applications processes and services. The metadata of repository is typically for static or non parameterized metadata utilized for all of the processes discussed below. Parameterized metadata discussed below is utilized to provide system variations and customizations on a client or user specified basis. The one or more control systems typically further provide orchestration of the various applications processes and services such as timing invocation and ordering and which typically provide other services such as system status monitoring and management billing accounting and so on. Not separately illustrated in the system may also include one or more interfaces such as I O or or drives for input of data on various media such as tape disk CD etc.

The various data storage systems generally may include without limitation as needed depending upon and corresponding to the various processing and application nodes selected one or more mainframe file systems partitioned database storage one or more Unix or other operating mode file systems and one or more Windows file systems . These storage elements may be implemented in a stored area network SAN environment in selected embodiments with all processing nodes having data access through a dedicated SAN network for example and with messaging and control provided on a separate network or bus which together form the network as an exemplary embodiment. The partitioned database storage may be embodied as one or more databases discussed above and includes without limitation a general information and attribute data repository such as an Experian INSOURCE database Z24 database Circbase database a linkage repository A a retained relationship linkage repository B a metadata repository such as for parameterized metadata as may be specified or selected by a client or other data user one or more private repositories such as for client data or other types of private or privileged data with a separate private repository implemented for each client one or more data warehouses and one or more data marts illustrated as data marts A and B. The file systems and may include any type of data storage systems including databases flat files web e.g. HTML or XML pages documents and so on. In the exemplary embodiments discussed below these file systems such as Unix or other operating mode file systems or Windows file systems may also include the data cube OLAP structures discussed below such as one or more of the analytics and segmentation processing data structures illustrated in . Alternatively the metadata of repository and the metadata repository may be switched or reversed with the metadata of repository containing parameterized metadata and the metadata repository containing static or non parameterized metadata. The various file and database systems may be implemented as known or as may become known in the art and all variations are within the scope of the present invention.

The various processing and application nodes and database nodes provide the various processes also referred to as services and applications discussed below such as data reception and input data layout data conversion and correction data audits matching and linkage assignment data coding data enhancement data linkage data change detection and update services data netdown data suppression data prioritization data output push applications such as automatic updates to client databases variable formatting services various fulfillment services e.g. report generation postal services postal presort services inkjet and other printing preparation services shipping services data extraction email formatting etc. . These services may be provided in a wide variety of orders with the storage of any interim results e.g. in retained relationships linkage repository B using service orchestration provided by control systems .

The various processing and application nodes and database nodes further provide user or client specified services generally through a graphical user interface GUI not separately illustrated such as via a computer or user control node including data selection and processing planning result reporting and analysis report rendering metadata parameterization selection and entry aggregation selection attribute selection analytics and segmentation processing and web or other network hosting. In addition the various processing and application nodes and database nodes also provide artificial intelligence services as an analytic recommendation engine or processor such as data modeling data aggregation data consultation data analysis and user interaction illustrated as analytic recommendation processor in and also occasionally referred to herein as virtual information consulting or consultant services.

These various services and processes may be distributed between and among the various processing and application nodes and database nodes in a wide variety of equivalent ways which may be a function of existing legacy systems legacy software customized software software licenses and costs and expenses. For example computationally intensive tasks may be performed using comparatively inexpensive CPUs available on nodes and rather than using the potentially more expensive nodes and . Also for example certain processes which are invoked less frequently may be maintained on legacy systems with other more frequently executing processes ported to a plurality of nodes and for increased distributed and parallel execution. More specifically such distributed processing in conjunction with the linked and modular metadata of the present invention also facilitates the capability of the systems and for parallel and asynchronous execution of the plurality of processes of the present invention.

The linkage repository A stores and maintains a database having a plurality of unique and persistent identifiers such as persistent identification numbers or PINs with each PIN assigned to or associated with each individual household business or other entity or object contained in the various other repositories such as repository . In addition the entity linkage repository A also maintains relationships between or among each such entity and various corresponding data entries or attributes referred to generally as entity linkage or simply linkage to distinguish the metadata linkage of the exemplary embodiments. For example an individual assigned PIN 1234 may be matched to hundreds or thousands of other records including with name and address variations and with other attributes such as age gender income social security number vehicle ownership marital status spouse name and address children names and addresses household identification home ownership purchasing histories marketing responses employment histories and so on along with any other attributes which may be maintained in repository data warehouse or in one or more private repositories . As a consequence selection of a given PIN may be utilized to provide linkage and immediate access to all of the other maintained and related attribute information for the selected entity. For example as discussed below with reference to once a PIN is selected for storage in data warehouse the entire history associated with each such PIN is immediately available including all current and past information and relationships. In addition as data is being processed intermediate or interim results may be stored in retained relationship linkage repository B as a plurality of PINs such as separate sets of PINs resulting from different parameters or versions utilized in data suppression data netdown and data prioritization for example.

As records or other data are input into the various systems e.g. or they may be matched to existing records using such PINs. Where the input records do not include corresponding PINs they may be matched using matching logic as known in the art and when a match is found assigned the corresponding PIN. When a match is not found the record is typically assigned a new PIN. The various PINs and other linkage data are maintained in linkage repository A. Such matching and PIN assignment is described in various publications such as a related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 651 469 entitled System Method And Software For Providing Persistent Business Entity Identification And Linking Business Entity Information In An Integrated Data Repository filed Aug. 29 2003 inventors John L. Skurtovich Jr. et al. which further claims priority to provisional application Ser. No. 60 474 350 filed May 29 2003 which is commonly assigned herewith and all of which are incorporated by reference herein with priority claimed for all commonly disclosed subject matter.

Another novel feature of the linkage repository A is a layered implementation based upon comparative confidence levels as illustrated in . Referring to at the deepest level is validated information having a comparatively high confidence level A followed by trusted but non validated information having a somewhat lower confidence level B in comparison to confidence level A followed by other information having a somewhat lower confidence level C in comparison to confidence levels B and A and further having one or more private linkage data stores having any confidence level as determined by a given client or other data source and the retained relationship linkage repository B. Each of these confidence levels provides a different view into the corresponding data and may be selected by corresponding parameters reflecting corresponding confidence levels such as through user input client specifications default values etc. For example when coarser grained analysis will be utilized such as at a household rather than individual level less confidence may be required for matching allowing use of trusted but non validated information rather than the stricter validated information. In addition with higher confidence levels created for example through additional confirmatory or validating information information may migrate or propagate inward toward trusted and toward validated information all through associated PIN information.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments these different confidence levels of linkage representing validated or non validated information can be applied independently to any of the various attributes and entities including individuals households and addresses for example.

Instead of being limited to the one to one linkage of the prior art in which one entity is linked to one identifier another novel linkage feature of the present invention provides many to many one to many or many to one linkages also using assigned and unique persistent identifiers or keys. These additional linkages are also maintained as retained relationships allowing the virtually instant accessibility of all such linked information. For example such many to many linkages may associate multiple names to multiple addresses such as two names of a couple linked to multiple addresses indicative of a household living arrangement. Similarly a many to many linkage may associate multiple names with multiple mobile telephone numbers such as available in a family or group mobile communications plan.

Also contrary to the prior art the various systems or maintain such linkage utilizing normalized relational data structures without limiting the number of stored variations despite the increase in processing complexity which has prevented prior art systems from using such normalized data structures. The systems or provide such additional linkage by providing for distributed data processing such as by using a plurality of processing and application nodes and database nodes where match processing may occur in parallel and asynchronously on multiple candidate sets. As a consequence multiple pieces of data for example may be linked to multiple entities at the same time.

Another novel feature of the present invention and as discussed in greater detail below the various systems or leverage the linkage system by retaining and storing interim results as retained relationships in the retained relationship linkage repository B that is results which are produced in a first subprocess and which can be utilized as input into a second subprocess. For example a set of PINs or other linkage identifiers produced as result of a first subprocess are stored separately from the final results produced by the second subprocess. As a consequence such retained relationships allows the separation of a single process into a plurality of decoupled subprocesses which may then be processed in parallel or in different orders for example rather than serially and in a predetermined order. In addition such enabling of process separation and decoupling provides for additional advantages such as the ability to separately customize the decoupled processes.

The other illustrated components such as user control node LAN WAN network web server network and computers or user interfaces are utilized to provide user or client interaction and system control such as input from a system monitor and may be embodied as previously discussed with reference to . For example the user control node or computers such as via LAN WAN or direct connection to node may be utilized to provide operator user or client access to the system for activities such as marketing campaign management including data input selection attribute selection parameter selection using data processing selection and planning node and to provide interactive segmentation and analysis using analytics and segmentation processing data structure data cube . The various illustrated components are coupled to data messaging network for data and messaging transmission and reception as discussed with reference to .

The database and processing architecture of as discussed in greater detail below provides tremendous advantages for processing large amounts of complicated data such as in marketing campaign management. First data which tends to change comparatively slowly is 1 selected using operator user client and artificial intelligence input from data processing selection and planning node and or user control node 2 input from database file and media systems and then 3 assembled by data assembly processor and stored in data warehouse with changes and other updates as needed. Data assembly processor typically performs computationally intensive processes such as data conversion and correction linkage data enhancement with additional fields or attributes and other common data processing. The data assembly processor may be distributed among a plurality of processing nodes and data assembly execution may occur in parallel and asynchronously depending upon the selected embodiment. As a consequence comparatively static information is warehoused and utilized to provide the data universe for selection and analysis without these computationally intensive data operations needing to be repeatedly performed for subsequent modifications e.g. changes in attribute selection or subsequent creation of various permutations combinations selections segmentations and analyses.

As not all of the information stored in data warehouse will be utilized in a given or subsequent marketing campaign but may be utilized in subsequent campaigns or other endeavors to increase subsequent processing and query response speeds the information stored in data warehouse will be reduced using various processes implemented by data reduction processor with the reduced data stored in a data mart typically implemented as a relational structure. This data reduction may be performed as needed or as desired such as for other campaigns or other applications and may result in a plurality of different data marts each produced for the selected application with corresponding selected information. For example data reduction processor may implement data netdown data suppression and data prioritization for one or more selected marketing campaigns. A particularly novel feature of the present invention as these data reduction processes are performed the interim results are stored as retained relationships using corresponding PINs in retained relationships linkage repository B. As a consequence any reprocessing using different reduction criteria does not require complete reprocessing instead using the retained relationships the previous set of non reduced data may be recovered essentially immediately and then reprocessed utilizing the new criteria. In addition using the retained relationships such processing and reprocessing may occur in a wide variety of orders rather than a particular predetermined order.

The resulting information stored in data mart is then aggregated using data aggregation processor based on selected attributes or dimensions also input from the operator client other user from data processing selection and planning node or user control node or from analytic recommendation processor and stored in analytics and segmentation processing data structure data cube to facilitate virtually real time segmentation modeling and analysis. Comparing the data mart and the analytics and segmentation processing data structure data cube the data mart is typically not pre aggregated and is a relational structure and which may generally have a star or snowflake schema for example and without limitation and typically contains additional information which may not be needed for analysis but may be useful for other processes such as report generation. The analytics and segmentation processing data structure is aggregated using selected attributes and dimensions while typically referred to as a data cube it may be considerably more multidimensional i.e. more than 3 dimensions of a cube and is adapted for real time responsiveness to input queries. For example a client through user interfaces or computers or user control node may submit various queries for segmentation on certain attributes such as age or income and using those results determine which individuals represented in the analytics and segmentation processing data structure data cube should receive marketing or promotional materials. In addition during this process based upon responses to past campaigns or based upon analytical modeling of the individuals households businesses or other entities represented in data mart analytic recommendation processor may also suggest certain segmentations and analyses to provide an increased response rate for the current marketing campaign.

In this interactive process a selection of individuals households or businesses is made for use in a current marketing campaign. The PINs of these individuals households or businesses are then provided to fulfillment processor which performs various fulfillment processes such as generation of name and address information generation of email addresses variable formatting layout inkjet services postal presort other postal services and so on as mentioned above and as discussed in greater detail below.

In addition data selection and planning of step with provided data intelligence of step will typically include attribute and feature selection. For example various clients may determine that income home ownership and vehicle ownership are attributes which may be analyzed or modeled to provide meaningful selection for promotions such as for marketing materials for computer sales. In addition analytic recommendation processor may suggest additional available attributes based on past response rates or other modeling such as response rates through different communication channels e.g. direct mail email radio television etc. . Various orderings of processes or applications may also be selected in accordance with the invention each such ordering through the parameterized metadata of the invention results in a different application being processed in the system . Such ordering and how each process will be performed is part of the service orchestration provided by control systems . Other parameters will also be selected or input such as confidence levels various numbers or amounts e.g. the type and size of the resulting marketing campaign such as a catalogue mailing to 100 000 entities selected or preferred formats and so on. The various selections are incorporated into the parameterized and linked metadata allowing for customization and individualization of the data processing without coding changes.

It should be noted that a particularly novel feature of the present invention is that such data selection and planning of steps and is not a static and time constrained process but is dynamic and variable with changes and modifications allowed throughout the entire data processing of the invention. For example initial parameters may be changed in real time and on the fly with very limited reprocessing required. As indicated above for data reduction because interim results are stored as retained relationships changes to data reduction parameters may be made subsequently and quite rapidly including repopulating or rebuilding the data mart and analytics and segmentation processing data structure . Indeed using empirical results from data simulations for changes in the data reduction process rather than taking approximately 3 hours to reprocess in accordance with the present invention such reprocessing occurred in less than one minute resulting in over a 180 fold improvement. Such improvement of more than two orders of magnitude allows the various systems of the present invention to provide real time analysis unavailable in any prior art systems.

Following initial data selection and planning the data assembly process may begin step and is typically performed by the data assembly processor . As illustrated in such data assembly involves a wide variety of processes illustrated as exemplary processes A through J which may be individually selected or selected as needed and which may occur in a wide variety of orders depending upon the status of the data its match capability etc. Depending upon the selected embodiment more or fewer of these processes A through J may be included and may be performed as known or may become known in the art. The data assembly process of step may also be interactive depending upon the selected embodiment with user client or operator input provided e.g. through computers or user control node and through analytic recommendation processor .

Data is input step A such as received electronically or through input media such as magnetic tape or disk. The data layout is determined step B such that the various systems or may properly process the various input data fields. Depending upon the data the data may be immediately matched and linkage PINS matched or assigned as discussed above step E alternatively this matching and linkage assignment may occur in other orders such as after data conversion and correction. Also depending upon the data data change detection and update step J may also occur immediately or in other orders such as after data conversion and correction. Such change detection for example provides for required processing of only changed records with unchanged records not requiring additional processing. Data conversion and correction often referred to as data hygiene is performed step C such as conversion to known or standard formats and corrected as needed such as by updating or correcting addresses. Data coding is performed step F such as by adding codes to improve mail deliverability and provide for postal discounts along with the provision of any data enhancements step G such as attaching additional selected attributes or dimensions such as modeling scores vehicle ownership etc. Data audits may also be performed step D as selected by the client or other user. For example a particular client or user may have a private repository typically having a known format which may then be audited to provide data corrections updates remove duplications convert formats and so on.

Typically when multiple data sources have been input such as multiple rented name lists many of the same entities appear on more than one list. Using PIN linkage selection step H only one such entity is selected such that duplicate names or entities are not stored in data warehouse providing the equivalent functionality to the prior art process of list merging and de duplication typically referred to as merge purge . In addition depending upon the selected embodiment and as provided by parameters within the metadata additional variables may be created such as by combining attributes to create new variables dimensions or attributes typically as part of the data enhancement process step G.

These various processes may also be applied to the other types of data discussed above such as for speech and signal processing. For example data input sources may be selected in data selection and planning step such as speaker language selection for speech recognition and synthesis from appropriate data repositories and data sources such as repositories storing recorded and digitized speech samples for the selected language. The data assembly process will also include data input A data layout B data coding F such as coding of particular phonemes with corresponding prosodies and co articulations and data enhancement G such as for providing modified samples for concatenation of phonemes to create appropriate co articulations.

The data resulting from the data assembly process is then stored in data warehouse as step . For an exemplary campaign management embodiment the stored data will typically include entity name and address information persistent identifiers entity history as coded or maintained by retained relationships and any other selected attributes and dimensions and may be provided by any of the databases previously discussed e.g. by the various databases contained in partitioned database storage . For an exemplary speech recognition or speech synthesis embodiment the stored data will typically be a plurality of digital signals corresponding to selected phonemes of a plurality of dialects of one or more selected languages with linkage to different speakers of different genders and ages corresponding prosodies and co articulations for example.

Also in sharp contrast to the prior art the data assembly process of the present invention is not a batch process which may take hours or weeks to complete with all parameters required to be specified prior to commencement of the assembly. Rather such processes may be performed on a continuous basis and may be performed in parallel and asynchronously as data is input it is processed and assembled and moved into the data warehouse . Multiple data streams may be processed in parallel and at any time without regard to when other data streams are being processed. As a further consequence and as discussed in greater detail below other decisions may also be made later in the campaign management process in real time and based on actual data segmentation and analysis providing a much more valuable process compared to the prior art. For example the present invention allows the user to make decisions based on what if scenarios using actual data analysis provided by the present invention. Effectively use of the various embodiments of the present invention allow what was formerly batch processing occurring over several weeks days or hours to move into real time processing.

Another novel feature of the present invention is that creation of a candidate data set has been completed with the creation of the data warehouse . Using retained relationships such as through the linkage process for example no rematching is required due to subsequent changes in confidence levels. Through the linkage process additional information may be automatically available albeit having a different confidence level resulting in inherited relationships without any required reprocessing as the complete relationship history has been retained through the PIN assignment and matching process.

Following creation of the data warehouse in step the data reduction process may begin step and is typically performed by data reduction processor . As illustrated in such data reduction involves a wide variety of processes illustrated as exemplary processes A through D which may be individually selected or selected as needed and which may occur in a wide variety of orders depending upon the status of the data and so on. Depending upon the selected embodiment more or fewer of these processes A through C may be included and may be performed as known or may become known in the art but using the retained relationships feature of the present invention step D.

The data netdown process or service A of the data reduction process typically creates matches superkeys and other PINs or relationships and may eliminate various entities. For example members of the same household may be combined using a superkey or PIN resulting in a reduction of several entities into one entity. Similarly depending upon selected confidence levels entities having separate PINs may be combined such as the individual E. Tagliere combined with the individual Eric Tagliere also reducing the number of entities. The various entities eliminated in the data netdown process are stored through their corresponding PINs as a first data set in one or more of the databases or memories step D such as stored in data warehouse . The data suppression process or service B is utilized to eliminate entities based on any selected attribute such as eliminating entities based on postal codes states do not call lists legal status e.g. as a minor or as incarcerated or previous inclusion in a solicitation for example. Similarly the various entities eliminated in the data suppression process are stored through their corresponding PINs as a second data set step D also in one or more of the databases or memories such as data warehouse . The data prioritization or hierarchy process or service C is utilized to eliminate entities based on any selected priority for example an entity appearing on multiple lists may be selected as being from a less expensive list. Similarly the various entities eliminated in the data prioritization process are stored through their corresponding PINs as a third data set step D also in one or more of the databases or memories such as data warehouse . Similar data reduction processes are available in other embodiments such as data netdown of speech samples phonemes based on speaker age gender and language dialect for example.

Also as illustrated in the data reduction process of step may also be interactive depending upon the selected embodiment with user client or operator input e.g. through computers or user control node and through analytic recommendation processor . For example analytic recommendation processor may provide data reduction selections based on previous results such as previous marketing campaigns or from various data models. Similarly based on subsequent results and segmentations from previous iterations of this process a client or operator may modify these data reduction processes such as by adjusting metadata parameters.

As indicated above the retained relationships as one or more data sets is one of the novel features of the present invention. Specifically the retained relationships allow for rapid recomputations based on any new or modified parameters. As indicated above in comparison with the prior art the retained relationships of the present invention have resulted in simulations having an improvement in processing speed of over two orders of magnitude.

The retained relationships also allow for parallel and asynchronous processing. For example any of the various data reduction processes may be performed in parallel and at any time without regard to when other data reduction processes may occur with interim results as PINs being stored in any of the various illustrated data storage devices. Following such parallel and asynchronous processing final results may be determined such as through various set operations such as forming an intersection of the interim results from data netdown data suppression and data prioritization.

The results from the data reduction process are then stored in one or more data marts step such as a data mart . For example variations from each such reduction process may be stored in a separate data mart such as for multiple campaigns. The stored information in selected embodiments consists of PINs and selected attributes for subsequent use in segmentation and analysis because selection of a PIN provides an immediate index or key into all other information associated with the PIN again without reprocessing. As indicated above a data mart is typically implemented utilizing a star or snowflake schema. Following creation of the data mart a data aggregation process is commenced step using data aggregation processor to provide one or more analytics and segmentation processing data structure such as one or more multidimensional data cubes illustrated as step .

This data aggregation process of step converts the relational structure of the data mart to an aggregated OLAP structure using any selected attributes or dimensions. The aggregation process is also typically interactive with user client input and intelligence provided by analytic recommendation processor for selection of attributes or dimensions for aggregation. In addition the aggregation process may also be iterative with a given iteration based upon results from previous aggregations and resulting segmentations analysis and reports. For example selected dimensions for aggregations as ranges of attributes or other attribute values may initially include gender age household income home ownership postal code profession vehicle ownership by brand and previous purchasing behavior by selected retailer. Continuing with the example initial dimensions for the income attribute may be in thousands 0 25 26 50 51 75 and so on dimensions for age may be in years 0 10 11 15 16 20 and so on and dimensions for gender may simply be binary such as 0 for male and 1 for female. Aggregation is then performed aggregating or combining all PINs whose corresponding attributes meet each dimension for each corresponding intersection of the dimensions such as each PIN corresponding to an individual of the selected gender in the selected age range and the selected income range. Based on input from analytic recommendation processor or previous iterations subsequent aggregating dimensions may include number of children and eliminate vehicle ownership as a dimension. Analytics may also be utilized in the aggregation process such as based on resulting scores from application of one or more data models. Again given the novel system structure of the present invention such interactivity and attribute selection changes may be performed without reprocessing the data itself and is available through the retained relationships and linkage of the invention.

Following its creation the analytics and segmentation processing data structure may be queried step with the return of query results step in both an interactive and iterative process. For example with user or operator interaction step and with intelligence input from analytic recommendation processor the analytics and segmentation processing data structure may be repeatedly queried analyzing different segments of the OLAP structure such as various intersections slices or segments to determine an optimal selection of entities what information should be provided to them and over what communication channel for example. At each stage a report may be generated step for use in additional analysis or as a final report of such interactive selections.

Use of such an OLAP structure as analytics and segmentation processing data structure is completely new to this voluminous and complex data processing such as in campaign management. Previously such campaign management has also been confined to mainframe computing involving set manipulations confined to large relational database structures. In accordance with the exemplary embodiments OLAP structures have now been extended into data set theory and set manipulations rather than merely arithmetic calculations such as sums and averages. In addition as discussed in greater detail below with reference to the present invention also provides for modified OLAP functionality to combine OLAP aggregation and segmentation capabilities with both set algebraic manipulations and operations and with logical operations which provide processing to simulate set operations.

In addition as another novel feature of the present invention the aggregation of the present invention into the analytics and segmentation processing data structure having an OLAP structure provides for real time and modifiable segmentation and analysis using any of the selected dimensions or attributes utilized in the aggregation allowing any corresponding roll up or drill down operations in dimensions having those attributes and again having an interactive and iterative capability using query determination step and query results step . For example a given analysis may roll up geographic segments from household to postal code level conversely an analysis may drill down in a geographic segment from state level to postal code level or from a household level to an individual level.

For example in addition to the set intersection operations involved in the aggregation of entities based upon the selected attributes for the OLAP dimensions exemplary embodiments of the present invention also provides set summation operations to provide for roll up operations for the corresponding dimensions. As discussed in greater detail below the exemplary embodiments provide entirely new OLAP functions namely set union and set difference operations. As a result the exemplary embodiments provide for real time what if analyses heretofore unavailable in the art of marketing campaign management.

Yet another novel feature of the present invention is the movement of the decision making process to the end of the campaign determination process. In the prior art all such decisions had to be made at the commencement of the data processing for the marketing campaign prior to the performance of batch processing including selection of segmentation parameters or attributes. In accordance with the present invention however segmentation analysis and modeling may all be performed in real time iteratively interactively and using actual data.

Once determinations have been made from the previous analytical steps the process continues with fulfillment processing step typically performed by the fulfillment processor . For example various fulfillment processes may be performed such as generation of a magnetic tape disk or electronic file having selected names and physical addresses email addresses with corresponding selected content and communication channel e.g. who gets what offer or other communication and on what channel selected formatting postal presorting inkjet services e.g. mailing labels and actual shipping or other execution such as provision of emailing services.

The process may also include follow up procedures such as response determination and modeling step which may be utilized in subsequent iterations as discussed above such as for feedback into the query process as illustrated. Following steps or the method may end return step .

Similar functions may be performed in the exemplary speech recognition and synthesis embodiment. For example the aggregation process may include dimensions based on dialect gender age selected prosody and so on with subsequent analysis based on likelihood of fit of received speech to selected phoneme strings stored in the analytics and segmentation processing data structure .

The various systems and of the present invention while illustrated in greater detail with respect to marketing campaign management may also be extended into other areas such as customer management. For example customer data may be merged with prospect data into a data warehouse followed by the real time segmentation analysis and modeling of the present invention for improved prediction capabilities. In addition using the metadata linkage structure of the present invention discussed below with reference to additional layers of functionality may be incorporated in a modular fashion without requiring changes to the existing system such as the addition of a wide variety of potential data modeling systems.

In addition through the use of parameterized metadata solutions may be customized without requiring any hard recoding. For example as mentioned above confidence levels for matching requirements and the various forms of data reduction of step are provided using customizable parameters. In addition attribute and dimension selection for segmentation and analysis are also provided based on customizable parameters. This parameterized metadata and a new type of linkage provided at a metadata level are discussed in greater detail below.

Referring to a first metadata module defines services processes and process flows which may be undertaken by the systems or such as the various processes discussed above e.g. data assembly. As part of this module processes may be selected or specified along with their orders and dependencies. Such service definitions are invoked through metadata link linking service process definitions to service process instances by second metadata module to create a service instance or instantiation and to provide a record of what processes are occurring and when. In turn each of these various services are comprised of corresponding activities and lists of activities defined in third metadata module such as the repeated execution of matching processing which are linked metadata link to correlate such services with their corresponding activities. For example services being performed for a given client may involve multiple activities such as a winter campaign defined in involving 10 different activities for example all linked to the corresponding services .

In addition each of these various services utilize hardware resources defined in fourth metadata module and are linked through metadata link which provides resource assignment to the various services. Through these linkages usage of various processes and hardware are tracked allowing analysis of resource usage which may also be utilized as an indication of an associated value of a process or activity for example activities which are invoked frequently may have more value than those invoked infrequently and for planning for future growth. In turn both third metadata module and fourth metadata module are linked metadata links and to accounting services defined in fifth metadata module to respectively correlate activities and resources to their corresponding costs and corresponding client billing and further to provide cost modeling and capacity planning metadata link . These general metadata modules are linked to the parties on whose behalf services and activities are being performed as defined in sixth metadata module through metadata link providing cost allocations to corresponding parties clients .

Similarly for the exemplary marketing campaign management embodiment parties such as clients or other users specified in sixth metadata module are linked metadata link to their specified marketing campaigns defined and selected in seventh metadata module such as through selection of the various parameters and processes discussed above. The sixth metadata module is also linked metadata link to the fifth metadata module to associate parties and corresponding accounting. The seventh metadata module will indicate the type of marketing campaign how frequently it will be performed the campaign goals and corresponding budgets. The seventh metadata module defining a marketing campaign is also linked metadata link to the corresponding detailed activities comprising a selected campaign and defined in third metadata module and linked metadata link list assignment to campaigns to eighth metadata module which defines the list of lists i.e. list of data inputs which can be selected and used as data input into a given campaign matching campaigns to lists for payment of list brokers and for list selection. The eighth metadata module is also linked metadata link list usage by parties to the corresponding activities defined in third metadata module which will be utilized in processing the selected lists as different lists will generally have different associated activities such as use of a first list for enhancement activity and use of a second list for suppression activity further linked metadata link list usage by parties to the parties of sixth metadata module utilizing the corresponding selected lists as not every party will have access to all lists such as private lists belonging to another party and also linked metadata link detailed list layouts and audits to the corresponding lists data layouts and audits defined in ninth metadata module . For example the ninth metadata module defines for each list or other data input which may be selected the detailed data layouts and fields which will be processed. Similarly parties such as clients or other users specified in sixth metadata module are linked metadata link party specific interaction to their selected interactions specified in tenth metadata module such as client specific list priorities and suppression rules and linked metadata link party specific enhancements to their selected data enhancements specified in eleventh metadata module such as which data aggregations will be performed and which attributes included in formation of the client s data warehouse .

The metadata linkage and metadata parameterization of the present invention as illustrated above for a selected application for marketing campaigns provides a very significant advantage to the systems or . Most significantly any such campaign may be customized by selection of corresponding parameters which are then automatically linked throughout the system with referential integrity without any coding changes and without any user or operator intervention. Similarly another service or functionality such as modeling may be incorporated into the systems or by providing an additional metadata module and corresponding linkage into at least one other module which in turn provides pre existing metadata linkage with the remaining modules . As a result the metadata parameterization and the metadata linkage of the present invention allow full customization of the marketing campaign process while retaining full automation and further allows modular expansion of the system to add new functionality.

Significantly the metadata linkages of the present invention allow for elimination of custom program code writing for performance of data processing. The metadata linkages and parameterized metadata instead provide for implementation of generic rules to define a data process with processes such as a marketing campaign or a speech recognition process modeled in a relational form with the referential integrity between services processes and selectable parameters utilized to customize the selected data process. As a consequence selection of parameters and services results in automatic and customized process creation.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that the metadata of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention is in sharp contrast with prior art metadata which has never been utilized to define not only data structures but also to define processes and dynamic and static parameters. This new form of metadata allows a new level of generalization with customization available through both process selection and parameter selection without the prior art need for recoding or new code generation. Such metadata is also integral to the exemplary systems and processes rather than merely providing tangential information e.g. media metadata such as song title and performer of U. S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0015389 assigned to Microsoft Corp. . Similarly the exemplary metadata of the present invention with explicit parameter selection for complete process customization is wholly dissimilar from other attempts at customizing prior art metadata e.g. attempted customization of metadata through the use of wholly static metadata with differences temporarily stored as deltas from the static metadata illustrated in U. S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0181534 also assigned to Microsoft Corp. .

OLAP data structures as indicated above are adapted to provide rapid segmentation capabilities through pre aggregation of data based on selected attributes or dimensions. Selection of multiple attributes or dimensions moreover results in the determination of an intersection of these various dimensions such as a first set of PINs as set X corresponding to individuals for example having annual incomes between 100 000 and 150 000 who drive Volvo automobiles have pets and listen to National Public Radio s All Things Considered during their workday commute. Similarly segmentation using different attributes or dimensions may result in a second set of PINs as set Y corresponding to individuals for example who are married with 2 children own their own home watch cable and satellite television news programs and prefer email communications. In addition segmentation using different attributes or dimensions may result in a third set of PINs as set Z corresponding to individuals for example who are married own their own home own a vacation home travel to the Caribbean every winter and prefer postal communications.

What OLAP data structures are not adapted to provide however is the group of individuals who are in set X the group of individuals who are in set Y and not in set X and the group of individuals who are in set Z and not in either set X or set Y namely mutually exclusive set operations such as set difference operations and set union operations without duplicate entries . For example a user may want to conduct a mailing to individuals in sets X Y and Z but does not want to send duplicate communications to individuals who are in 2 or more sets. Using prior art OLAP data structures such a determination grows exponentially with the number of sets involved. For example using the segmented data available in an OLAP cube to find the union of the 3 sets 7 set determinations are required as set X set Y set Z set X intersection Y set X intersection Z set Y intersection Z and set X intersection Y intersection Z followed by set operations adding the individual sets subtracting the paired intersections and adding back in the triple intersection i.e. X Y Z X Y Z X Y X Z Y Z X Y Z .

As a consequence in accordance with the present invention a modified OLAP functionality is provided in which OLAP aggregation and segmentation capabilities are combined with both algebraic manipulations and set operations to create union and difference operations. Using the modified OLAP functionality of the present invention significantly reduces the number of required calculations such that determinations only grows arithmetically with the number of sets involved and not exponentially.

Next when additional sets are to be determined step a next set is determined in step such as set Z . A next union set is created as a de duplicated combination of the previous union set and the next set i.e. X Y Z step . A next difference set is created as the next union set minus the previous union set i.e. X Y Z X Y step providing a next difference set comprising those elements of set Z which are not also in sets X or Y. When there are additional sets to be determined the method continues step returning to steps and to continue to determine difference sets from the next union set minus the previous union set creating a set of PINS which are not in any of the previously determined sets. When there are no more sets to be determined in step the method provides or outputs the initial set and all of the one or more difference sets which have been calculated step and the method may end return step . As a consequence in the exemplary systems a processing node is adapted to determine a plurality of mutually exclusive sets from a plurality of sequential union sets by forming a difference set by subtracting a previous union set from a next union set.

It will be apparent to those of skill in the art that while the various embodiments of the invention have been described primarily with respect to applications involved in marketing campaign management the various systems and methods of the invention may be extended to numerous other fields including other technical fields such as speech and signal processing.

For example the present invention can be applied to speech optical and signal processing where vast quantities of data are collected and must be analyzed. For accurate speech recognition vast data stores may be generated for thousands of electronic signals. These electronic signal must be stored and associated with corresponding phonemes for thousands of words each from thousands of individuals in many different languages. Again vast quantities of data must be processed and must result in a selection of words and corresponding pronunciations that meet certain criteria such as having a likelihood of fit to selected phoneme patterns from a plurality of different speakers of a plurality of different languages with high discrimination and noise immunity.

The various embodiments of the present invention provide for such signal processing and analysis in real time. Input signals may be sampled categorized matched to phonemes and assembled into a data warehouse. Similarly for optical character recognition input signals are sampled categorized matched to expected characters and assembled into a data warehouse. For subsequent analysis using selection criteria and attributes such as selected phonemes of particular dialects the data may be reduced and stored in a data mart. This data may then be aggregated for a multidimensional data structure which then supports real time query processing for real time data analysis for use in speech recognition devices.

From the foregoing it will be observed that numerous variations and modifications may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concept of the invention. It is to be understood that no limitation with respect to the specific methods and apparatus illustrated herein is intended or should be inferred. It is of course intended to cover by the appended claims all such modifications as fall within the scope of the claims.

