---

title: Content based recommendation system
abstract: A media control system enables a device-agnostic and source-agnostic entertainment experience through use of an internet-enabled user device. The user device includes a client application for navigating through media or entertainment content, controlling media devices according to a type of media content selected by the user, and sharing media experiences via social networks. The user device includes smartphones, tablet computers, and other internet-enabled processor-based devices. The media control system leverages the internet access of the user device to enable search and discovery of all available media content. A recommendation engine coupled to the client application learns media preferences from user behavior, generates from numerous disparate media sources recommended media choices corresponding to the media preferences, and presents the recommended media choices on the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542649&OS=09542649&RS=09542649
owner: Peel Technologies, Inc.
number: 09542649
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151215
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 758 886 filed Feb. 4 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 594 287 filed Feb. 2 2012 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The embodiments described herein relate generally to the control of electronic entertainment systems and recommendation of content to users.

Consumers have two levels of complexity to deal with in their premises e.g. homes offices etc. . A first complexity deals with managing and controlling various electronic components or equipment in the premises e.g. audio components video components digital video recorders DVRs digital video players etc. . The conventional solution to this problem has been the universal remote that allows a consumer to control more than one component with a single remote.

A second complexity is that the consumer currently has no way to interactively research browse through the plethora of content choices that are available for them to watch and or listen to from numerous sources at any particular moment. Consumers of content are faced with the ever increasing dilemma of finding content to watch that matches their desires and needs. Given that most consumers now have access to a plethora of channels the current approach of using an Electronic Program Guide EPG to search for TV content is not a satisfactory approach and most consumers confine their viewing to a limited subset of channels. When content from IPTV and other internet sources are included this approach fails completely. Furthermore the use of search assumes that the user knows what they are searching for and works well under that assumption. However in many if not most circumstances the user does not have a specific piece of content that they wish to search for and watch. A conventional search mechanism relies on the user for preference input and does not recommend media and entertainment content beyond those programming options or venues currently known to the user.

The control environment enables consumers through the use of an internet enabled device such as a mobile phone or tablet herein user device coupled to the media system and user s entertainment systems to navigate through media or entertainment content available to the entertainment systems control entertainment systems to watch and or listen to media content and share their media experiences with an internet community or social network.

Entertainment systems can include Digital Video Disk DVD players display devices such as televisions Audio Video receivers which switch audio and visual data for playback on speakers and display devices video game consoles personal home media computers Digital Video Recorders DVRs and the like. Entertainment systems may be operated through commands ON OFF UP DOWN LEFT RIGHT on a direction pad channel or volume UP DOWN SOURCE etc. that are provided on traditional remotes and controllers. Oftentimes a code providing a specific carrier frequency e.g. radio frequency and or authentication e.g. Infrared and associated protocol is required to facilitate data transfer with the entertainment systems . Some entertainment systems may also receive IP based based communications and have an associated application programming interface API that may be used to receive commands.

Generally the media system is a system comprising a recommendation engine content feed action logger and associated storage components including a user profile store action log content store and code store . The media system aggregates information about media content from a plurality of disparate content sources that are available to the user via premise entertainment systems . Based on user interactions with the media content the media system determines media preferences of the user. In turn the media system recommends content items that are available for the user on the variety of entertainment systems based on the determined preferences. The media system therefore facilitates and promotes user interaction with a broad range of content. As further described below the recommendation engine further applies expert knowledge of viewing behaviors in relation to media content in order to improve predictive quality of recommendation preference scores.

The content feed manages program feed information about content items but is not so limited. For example the content feed may retrieve and aggregate information about content items such as TV programs movies etc. and their respective sources such as a TV channel service etc. in the content store . The content store comprises all program information related to premise entertainment systems for users of the media system . Given the selection of entertainment systems and associated subscriptions capabilities etc. the content store provides a list of content items available to the user and optionally associated metadata for the items. The recommendation engine in turn processes the available content items and associated metadata to generate a ranked listing of content for display on the user device via the application . The user may select a content item on the user device which causes the user device to facilitate the presentation of the selected content item using the entertainment systems .

The action logger monitors user interaction at the user device and with the media and entertainment content provided through the user s entertainments systems . The action logger stores information about the user s interactions in the action log . The action logger may further store information about the content the user interacted with and related metadata extracted from user viewing activity .

The recommendation engine of the media system leverages the increasing range and occurrence of interaction events e.g. user viewing activities stored in the action log to determine user viewing habits and preferences for producing lists of recommended content items within and or across the gamut of on demand and or current broadcast TV movies and sport categories available on the entertainment systems . The recommendation engine may update a profile for the user in the user profile store to indicate the user s preferences. Available content items in turn may be ranked based on predicted user preference and provided to the user device e.g. for display in the application .

The media system comprises a code store that may include infrared IR codes optical codes radio frequency RF codes and codes for other protocols that are used to communicate with entertainment systems . The user device or other devices may use the code store to communicate with the entertainment systems . The media system includes a user profile store that stores identification information about the user devices and their users. The user profile store may also include predicted user preferences and associated information determined for the user by the recommendation engine .

Thus the media control environment using a combination of premise hardware e.g. software module or components e.g. provided to the user device included in the media system and recommendation engine etc. and or network connection access allows consumers to select control and receive recommendations for media content via their user device . The media control environment changes the way consumers select media and how they control that media across their entertainment systems and as such enables a device agnostic and source agnostic entertainment experience.

As shown the recommendation engine runs within a media system on a server platform within the general architecture of the media control environment and recommends content to users through the user device . The user device of an embodiment include any processor based device with internet connectivity a screen and a means to navigate a user interface displayed on the screen for example smartphones tablet computers touch enabled devices e.g. iOS devices such as the iPhone iPod iPad etc. and Android devices such as the Kindle Fire HD Samsung Galaxy etc. personal computers PCs digital photo frames and other internet enabled processor based client or remote devices. The media system leverages network access e.g. the internet of the user device to enable search and discovery of content available for presentation using the entertainments systems . The media system and the recommendation engine further leverages information about user interactions within the media control environment to organize and recommend media content for the user based on user specific priorities preferences.

The user device may include software or an application that executes on a processor of the user device with which the consumer interacts. When the user manipulates the user device he or she interacts primarily with the application to control their entertainment experience. The application offers through content based navigation content items as its primary form of interface where the content items displayed are tailored according to the user s preference by the recommendation engine . The content items may be categorized using easy to understand genres that the user can quickly browse through to select content. Under an embodiment content item categories include TV movie and sport but alternative embodiments may include fewer greater or different categories. The content items are aggregated from a multitude of sources for example subscription media broadcast media cable DVR VOD and internet media to which the consumer has access. In response to user selection of a content item the user device facilitates the display of the content item by controlling the necessary entertainment systems .

Although the detailed description herein contains many specifics for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the embodiments described herein. Thus the following illustrative embodiments are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claims set forth herein.

The following terms can have the following general meanings as they are used herein but can also have meanings attributed to them by one skilled in the art.

 Touch handheld or Touch Enabled Device is any device that has a touch screen and can be interacted with in a mobile form. For example iOS devices such as the iPhone iPod iPad etc. and Android devices such as the Kindle Fire HD Samsung Galaxy etc. are touch handheld devices.

 Content Source is a source from which a specific piece of content or content item is made available e.g. broadcast cable over the air online digital video disk DVD video on demand VOD etc. to one or more entertainment systems .

 IR Code is an infrared code used to control or perform a specific action on a component or piece of entertainment systems equipment.

 RF is a radio frequency signal used to wirelessly communicate between the user device network and any hub or extension on the network and entertainment systems . Examples of RF communications are Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers standard IEEE 802.11 WiFi and Bluetooth .

The user device entertainment systems and media system are coupled through a network . The network itself may support various communication protocols. For example the network may provide and facilitate IR RF optical and or IP based communication e.g. over a home network and or the internet but is not limited thereto. For example the network may provide physical data coupling between discrete entertainment system elements and or the user device that may communicate using consumer electronics control CEC and other protocols.

In some embodiments the network includes a hub not shown that couples the user device to entertainment systems on the user s premises. For example the hub when coupled or connected the network is a participating IP based device in the home network of the user and as such can access the Internet. The hub by virtue of being tethered to the premise network is available on the premise network to be discovered and coupled to by the user device . For example the hub may publish its IP Address via UPNP packets and this enables the user device to discover or identify the hub and form a coupling or connection to the hub.

In addition to IP based communication capability on the network the hub may facilitate IR optical and RF communication capabilities between the user device and the entertainment systems . The hub may also include a number of extension devices not shown that overcome line of sight proximity or other limitations of communicating with the entertainment systems which may exist in different locations throughout the user s premise. A single hub may manage multiple extensions that are placed around a premise. The hub may communicate with the extension devices through IP based or RF communications through the network . The hub and its extensions can cache IR codes or other data that may be used to control the entertainment systems . If the appropriate IR code is not available in the cache the hub may look up the code e.g. from code store on media system as the hub may connect to the internet.

In one embodiment a hub extension is a device that can be placed on a structure e.g. piece of furniture shelf etc. in the premise in a position from which it has a reasonable line of sight or proximity to components within the entertainment systems . The extension receives commands from the hub and translates the commands for control of a given component of the entertainment systems via an appropriate protocol for communication with the component. In one embodiment the extension receives commands from the hub via RF signals and translates the commands to IR optical or RF signals compatible with the given component or set of components within range of the extension to be controlled. In addition to emitting control signals the hub and or extension may also receive signals to learn teach codes that are not available as part of the code store .

In some embodiments the user device may include dedicated hardware and or software to facilitate optical RF IR and or other communications with the entertainment systems hub and or hub extensions. In instances where the user device includes the necessary hardware and software for communicating with each component of the entertainment systems the hub and hub extensions may be omitted from the media control environment .

In addition to the presentation of Top Picks within a particular category as illustrated in the Top Picks selection may present an aggregate selection from all available TV Shows Movies and Sports . The Top Picks category simultaneously presents predicted content preferences across the television movie and or sport categories. The recommendation engine generates recommendations for each category and allocates space to TV Shows Movies and Sports within the interface presentation of the user device under the principles of embodiments further described below.

The content feed may additionally store user preference information and other metadata. User preference information may include implicit preferences such as user location and subscribed channel package with a provider. Explicit user preference information may include prohibition of paid content or mature content. Other metadata collected in the feed may include tag information for online content event attributes such as whether there is associated online content provided with a live event or broadcast show user ratings for content collected via the media system or a third party and social media information. The social media information may include a ranked list of tags e.g. hash tags and keywords e.g. from searches or posts that are trending online.

In one embodiment the content feed is a universal data loader e.g. an XML based data loader that can load any media metadata from any source based on a data format dictionary for each source. The content feed reformats the received data to a format that may be easily organized and searched in the content store . The recommendation engine engine uses the content store to generate tailored content for each consumer as further described below.

The content feed refreshes the content store periodically e.g. every night every twelve hours every hour etc. based on the availability of feeds from different sources e.g. TV Guide data is received from Tribune Media Services DVR Internet media content VOD etc. . The periodic process of refreshing the content database includes the use of crawlers that crawl content media sites e.g. sites that host media content items such as video music images etc. . The crawlers index content metadata URLs from a multitude of media sites and data resulting from crawling activity is stored at the content database. Because the media system of an embodiment is directed at TV sport and movie content the crawler uses the TV Guide data as a basic dataset such that the TV Guide data constrains the crawler to stay within this known or pre defined realm but the embodiment is not so limited. The content feed of an embodiment however extends to any media from any source. The content database of an embodiment uses content metadata to define event attributes i.e. metadata tags associated with content that describe or identify the various characteristics of such content. The recommendation engine may then track a user s viewing activity using information collected by the action logger and match learned user preferences to content metadata using event attributes as further described below.

Other metadata collected by the content feed including trending keywords and hash tags may be used to update the content store in real time. Content items associated with the trending keywords and hash tags may be ranked higher during the period of trending before subsiding to a prior level.

As described above consumers of media content are faced with the ever increasing dilemma of finding interesting content to watch from a variety of entertainment sources that provide broadcast TV internet TV satellite TV DVD VOD and other content. As a solution the media system of an embodiment comprises a recommendation engine to identify content that will be of interest to a specific user irrespective of its source and to provide the recommendations to the user in a personalized way. The provision of such a discovery mechanism has been shown to significantly increase consumer satisfaction and is rapidly becoming an essential tool for any form of content e.g. retail news blogs TV movies music etc. where there is significant number of alternatives to chose from.

The recommendation engine is a unique system that generates personalized recommended real time TV Movie Sports programs to an individual user based on a variety of information specific to the user including the user s TV program providers Cable Satellite TV Over the air broadcasting Fiber TV such as AT T U Verse and Verizon s FiOS service user viewing behavior user ratings of TV programs metadata such as current trending topics and personal information such as certain demographic data reported during initial client application setup demographic data reported during operation of the user device by a user and or demographic data otherwise available for the media system to ingest.

As described above the action log stores user history and user media preference information collected by the action logger in response to captured interactions of the user with the user device and entertainment systems . For example as the user engages the application of the user device to select view and or search media content the user device application may forward viewing data of the user to the action logger which further provides viewing activity data and metadata as inputs to the recommendation engine .

In one embodiment the recommendation engine comprises a bookkeeping module a machine learning module an allocation module a time adjustment module and a rules module . The recommendation engine modules s process the information stored in the databases and produce content recommendations across categories such as sports television and movies. The recommendation engine under an embodiment processes user activities stored in the action log and their associated metadata to determine user preferences for content that are stored in the user profile store . In turn the recommendation engine recommends available content identified in the content store in each category according to determined user preference scores in the user profile store . Under another embodiment the recommendation engine uses the computed preference scores in the user profile store to generate present a global list of content items across all such categories presented in a general top picks category. The systems and methods described herein are not limited to generation of recommended content within across the categories of sports television and movies and may include a larger or smaller number of content categories.

Under one embodiment the action logger resolves the information of the user s viewing activity stored in the action log into metadata attributes categories. The action logger therefore organizes information of a user s viewing activity into attribute categories corresponding to the metadata tags or attribute categories in the action log based on the metadata about the consumed media content. Under an alternative embodiment as described below the recommendation engine retrieves information about a user s viewing activity from the action log and resolves such information into attribute subcomponents. In one embodiment the action logger further determines aggregate information for content items viewed based on input from all users of the media control environment . The aggregation of user activities in the action log provides overall system user trends and content item viewership data as inputs to the recommendation engine . For example aggregated inputs may include viewing history of users associated with the current user e.g. those having related interests viewing history of users that watched same similar shows as the current user succeeding viewing history of other users after they watched a particular show preceding viewing history of other users before they watched a particular show and most watched or trending shows.

The user device forwards to the media system media preferences specified by the user during configuration or during operation of the client application . The user profile store maintains such preference data across all users of the media system . Media preference inputs in the user profile store may include one or more programming media subgroups including Language Preference Time Zone Media Quality Preference e.g. Hi Definition Only Standard Definition Only etc. Genre Preference e.g. Action Adventure etc. Channel Preference e.g. NBC ABC Discovery etc. Source Preference e.g. Online Live TV Cable etc. . The recommendation engine may refine and update the preferences further through processing of the action logs . The user device also collects explicit implicit user feedback of available content and forwards such feedback data to the recommendation engine under principles of embodiments further described below.

The recommendation engine interacts with the content store to retrieve media scheduling data including media currently available to the user given a current time maintained for the user device or a time selected by a user of a user device seeking content available at such time.

Under one embodiment the recommendation engine recommends content for a user across and within three categories of TV movie and sport. The recommendation engine recommends content by generating user specific preference scores for content available to the user through the user device at a specified time interval. The bookkeeping module machine learning module and rules module cooperate to provide preference scores for available content. These three components interact to generate TV Movie and Sport content recommendations by processing discrete and aggregated viewing activity data and applying a mix of human intelligence and machine learning based analysis to the data. A time adjustment module further weights the prediction preference scores generated by the bookkeeping module a machine learning module and a rules module while an allocation module optimizes a distribution of content among the categories for example TV Movie and Sport categories. Under an embodiment the time adjustment module may be used to model temporal short term and long term patterns in viewer behavior and content item popularity.

Under an embodiment the bookkeeping module and the rules module cooperate to generate sporting related content item and sport programming recommendation scores. The bookkeeping module performs a function in direct keeping with its name by literally booking viewing events in count intervals. Accordingly the bookkeeping module comprises a series of count tables. When a user selects views a sporting related content item the recommendation engine identifies resolves the interaction as a sporting related content item related input and invokes the bookkeeping module to process information of the event. The bookkeeping module monitors tracks uses event attributes to maintain count tables of sport viewing events viewing occurrences of the sporting related content items and time duration of viewing. As examples of such tables the bookkeeping module maintains a league table a team table a player table and a sport type table.

The recommendation engine resolves identifies attributes of the viewing event using the information about the user event and information retrieved from the content store about the content item associated with the event. For example an NFL sports event may have associated attributes including play time teams playing whether the event is live or recorded or high definition or not. The content store may include addition information such as whether the event went into overtime the score e.g. to distinguish less interesting blowouts from close games and other associated information. Attributed logged for the user s interaction event may include at what point the user accessed the content item during the event what content item the user was viewing previously and how long the user viewed the content item.

The recommendation engine identifies bookkeeping tables corresponding to attributes of the viewing event. The bookkeeping module then initiates a do count process. The do count process accounts for the viewing event of the user by recording incrementing count values in tables e.g. in a sport type table a league table player table and a team table . The recorded values maintained in such tables track viewing occurrences corresponding to attributes of the event e.g. the league table records one 1 count for an event with an NFL attribute e.g. NFL game pre game show etc . Multiple viewing occurrences may correspond to a user s selected viewing of a single sporting related content item. For example when a user watches an NFL game the user views an NFL event two competing NFL teams a football sporting related content item and competing players. Each of the aforementioned viewing attributes of the single viewing event represent viewing occurrences that are tracked by the bookkeeping module as further described below.

The bookkeeping module of an embodiment receives viewing activity information of a user as an input. Based upon attributes of a user s viewing activity the bookkeeping module uses a relational database to maintain counts of viewing events occurrences in tables. For example the count entry for a particular NFL team may be increased every time the user watches the team s game. A row in a table represents a viewing occurrence for a particular user. As one example the first row of the league table includes values for user id league count and time. The user id A uniquely identifies a particular user. Under an embodiment various methods including combinations of strings and integers may be used to identify users. The value NFL in the league column of the first row indicates the user s selection of an NFL related event for viewing. The value of 1 in the first row of the count column indicates a count increment of 1 corresponding to the user s selection of the NFL viewing event. The time t represents the time the user selected NFL related content for viewing. The NFL related viewing event may be an NFL game but is not so limited. Under an embodiment an NFL related viewing event includes NFL media events such as pre and post game shows sport analysis programming NFL films NFL draft NFL sponsored programming etc.

Under an embodiment as the bookkeeping module receives viewing attributes the bookkeeping module maintains counts of viewing events. Such viewing attributes come from program metadata associated with the content item viewed by the user and optionally information about the user s interaction with the content item. The team table maintains a count of a user s selection viewing of sporting related content items involving certain teams. The teams table includes members of leagues but is not so limited. As one example teams include the various teams of the NFL or the NBA. The player table maintains a count of a user s selection viewing of sporting related content items involving certain players. The player table maintains counts for highly recognized players such as Tiger Woods or Kobe Bryant. However the player count functionality of the system is not limited to high profile players and may be expanded to cover every player in a league such as the NFL as just one example. The sport table maintains a count of a user s selection viewing of sport types. The sport table maintains information for a broad range a sports including football hockey basketball baseball golf tennis etc. The sport table may under an embodiment include any number of sports to represent the viewing activity of media control system users.

The recommendation engine is not limited to the tables described above. Further the recommendation engine including the bookkeeping module may combine the information of the four tables in into fewer sets of tables or conversely use a greater number of tables as needed to capture the same or additional information. The organization of data in is in no way meant to limit the recommendation engine and methods described herein. Under an embodiment the recommendation engine may use any number of tables to capture data under principles of a relational database data storage and management system. The recommendation engine is not limited to the use of a relational database and may use other database systems to implement the systems and methods contained herein.

As already noted above a single viewing event may cause count increments across multiple tables. As one example a user Smith may decide to view an NFL matchup between the Houston Texans and the New Orleans Saints. The single viewing event generates a row in the league table which respectively records values of Smith NFL and one 1 in the user id league and count columns of the league table. However this viewing event also generates a row in the sport type table which respectively records values of Smith football and one 1 in the user id sport and count columns. Further this viewing event generates two rows in the team table. A first row records the values of Smith Texans and one 1 in the corresponding user id team and count columns. A second row records the values of Smith Saints and one 1 in the corresponding user id team and count columns. Furthermore the player table of an embodiment may include a table that tracks selection viewing of content including Matt Ryan. Accordingly a user s viewing of the Falcons Saints matchup triggers an entry in the player table with values of Smith Ryan and one 1 in the corresponding user id player and count columns. All entries described above include a corresponding time column in order to time stamp the user s selection of an event. The bookkeeping module maintains counts in the tables described above in a profile stored in the user profile store coupled to the recommendation engine . The user profile represents the viewing behavior of a user captured as a collection of discrete viewing occurrences.

The bookkeeping module uses the viewing event tables to monitor and learn a user s sporting related content item preferences. As one example a user may have viewed five 5 NFL events two 2 NBA events and one 1 MLB event. The bookkeeping module may score a user s NFL preference by dividing the NFL count by the total number of counts recorded across all league values monitored by league table. The bookkeeping module may weight each count according to the time of the viewing event. The bookkeeping module may use a weight kewhere k is some constant which may be one and where the t represents the time of the viewing event. Accordingly the weight devalues an event in the distant past eventually reducing such contribution to near zero. Therefore the NFL count of five 5 described above may generate a very small preference score if all such events are long in the past. It is noted that simple counts are used in the tables set forth in but the systems and methods herein are not so limited. Further the recommendation engine may incorporate the effect of time using weighting schemes other than the exponential weighting scheme described above.

The bookkeeping module is well suited to the particular dynamics of sport viewership. For example many viewers are interested in only a handful of sports and a handful of teams and or players and generally watch their home team more often than other teams. The term home team indicates a team in some way associated with a person s background or experience. A home team may play in a particular city or state of a person s childhood residence. Or a home team may be inherited through family tradition. A user may acquire a home team interest by attending a particular university and thereafter supporting alma mater related sporting related content items. A user may develop a home team interest through family relationships e.g. spouse cheers for a particular team a relative plays for a particular team etc. The bookkeeping module is capable of monitoring a user s day to day viewing activities and empirically discovering home teams based on demonstrated preferences and then narrowing recommended content to account for a home team effect. Under alternative embodiments the recommendation engine may receive demographic data from the user submitted through user device setup and or during operation either directly or through the action logger . Under an embodiment a bookkeeping module maintains demographic data tables that provide the recommendation engine the ability to link sporting related content items attributes or metadata with user specific demographic data. The bookkeeping module may then use the demographic data to improve the bookkeeping module s ability to identify a home team effect.

The bookkeeping module fails to account for a broader range of sport viewing attributes that attract viewers beyond demonstrated preferences and or home team effect. A rules module of the recommendation engine captures sporting related content item and or general cultural phenomena that drive interest in sporting content beyond what may be explained by demonstrated viewing activity. For example seasonal attributes of particular sport content may independently contribute to viewer interest as much as demonstrated user preferences and may even contradict or override preference data. For example a viewer known to be a die hard Steelers fan is very likely to watch an NFL playoff game irrespective of the participating teams i.e. even when the Pittsburgh Steelers have been eliminated from post season play. Additionally if the Steelers playoff chances depend on the outcome of a particular game or a particular game features a potential opponent of the Steelers in the playoffs or late in the season the Steelers fan is likely to want to watch those games over others. For example for a new sports event program the recommendation engine will fetch team attribute info from program meta data then it will lookup the user profile information in the bookkeeping table to see whether the user has watched many of the team s programs in the past. A higher recommendation score will be assigned if count of the team from past watch programs is high. The recommendation score may further be weighted based on how recent the user watched the team. Additionally a casual sporting content viewer with moderate football viewing activity manifest in the bookkeeping module tables is much more likely to watch an NFL playoff game than a regular season NFL game and is almost guaranteed to watch at least a portion of the super bowl. And even a viewer with zero demonstrated sport viewing activity is more likely to watch a football game over competing content when that game happens to be the super bowl. The same information may also be determined from social network or other data sources. For example if the user has shown interests in particular team or sports e.g. by liking tagging mentioning or otherwise indicating interest in the team or associated player the system will give higher recommendation score for the team events.

Expert rules supplement empirical viewing data with real world experience. Under an embodiment expert rules are based on human knowledge experience and intelligence. The rules module of the system comprises a bank of such knowledge based rules. In particular the rules module has built in knowledge of viewer interests and viewing activity patterns in relation to major sporting related content items and seasonal calendar driven sport phenomenon. As one example the NFL season starts in September and finishes in February. Using a rules based system the recommendation engine knows in general that NFL games in January are more interesting than those in December and December s games more interesting than those played in November. A similar knowledge based rule exists for the NBA NHL MLB College basketball including the so called March Madness schedule and College football. Additional expert knowledge rules include an awareness of important sports events such as SuperBowl and Tennis Golf grand slam events and sport specific play off rules.

The knowledge based rules component of the recommendation engine captures these known iterated behavioral patterns including calendar regional and event driven patterns. As indicated above interest in the NFL varies greatly by month of the year. The preseason games of August generate little interest. The NFL begins its regular season in September and kicks into high gear in December January and February. Interest increases accordingly during these latter months. The NBA traditionally features a great number of early season low interest games. However the NBA generates an increasing level of interest from February through June. Regional patterns provide further insight into viewing behaviors. For example a Midwestern population may feature greater interest in traditional American sports such as football baseball and NASCAR racing. Some sports manifest event centered calendars. For example interest in Golf spikes for each of the four major tournaments the PGA Championship Masters Tournament British Open and US Open Championship . Similar interest arises for the Ryder Cup Matches held every two years. As another example of an event driven sport tennis features four major grand slams a year the Australian Open the French Open Wimbledon and the US Open . Each grand slam event drives attention among viewers that otherwise may view little if any tennis otherwise. The recommendation engine uses a rules module to incorporate an awareness of viewing behaviors relating to calendar regional and event driven interests patterns

In addition data integration with team s standing in the league will drive interest level. Take the example of NFL later season games among play off spot contenders will have a lot higher interests. Same for traditional nemesis teams e.g. Pittsburgh Steelers v.s. Baltimore Ravens . The recommendation engine may identify these high profile and rivalry games based on prior viewership of a particular matchup or time in which the game is played against an average. Additionally the recommendation engine s crawlers may identify common keywords associated with matchups between teams or players other than the team name or player names. For example the yearly game between the Oregon Ducks and Oregon Beavers is commonly known as the Civil War and both teams are frequently mentioned in association with the colloquial identification. Accordingly the recommendation engine may identify these colloquialisms and associated teams which may change every year in the case of college Bowl Games where matchups are determined anew each year based on ranking . Tending mentions of a particular player in social network or identification of new articles may drive interest in the team game as well such as the Linsanity phenomena in season 2012 in NBA.

Under a preferred embodiment the recommendation engine uses a combination of a first preference score from the bookkeeping module and a second preference score from the rules module . Under an embodiment the second score is actually a weighting adjustment applied to the first score. In other words the rules module supplies additional weighting information to adjust the preference score generated by the bookkeeping module . This additional weighting captures known iterated viewing behaviors. For example is an example of an expert rules table capturing seasonal interest in the NFL. The NFL table organizes the NFL season into months and further tracks interest by week. Each Month Week combination featuring an NFL event preseason regular season or post season game is associated with a weighting score. A weighting score of one 1 indicates a completely neutral adjustment. For example a bookkeeping preference score multiplied by a weighting score of one 1 would return the same recommendation score. Weighting scores less than or greater than one reduce or increase the bookkeeping preference score accordingly. The weighting scores are assigned through human intelligence and awareness of the determined sport viewership phenomenon described above. For example the August Week 2 combination receives almost no positive weighting due to the fact that August features pre season games. Even known NFL fans dislike pre season matchups and casual football fans have almost no inclination to select pre season games. The last three weeks of September receive increased weighting scores. Note that the September Week 1 September Week 2 September Week 3 and September Week 4 combinations receive higher ratings than all of the October weeks. This adjustment scheme under one embodiment describes an initial burst of interest in the first few weeks of the NFL season due to preliminary enrollments in fantasy football leagues. However fantasy football driven viewership interest fades over the first few weeks of the season potentially fading into a secondary interest in statistics collected viewed in offline venues. In addition to overall knowledge of fantasy player statistics API integration with fantasy sports service providers may pull teams and players having the most fantasy interests for users of the media system and recommend content items where those teams or players are producing points for the user. As seen in weighting scores then steadily increase throughout November December and January. Higher scores for January Week 1 January Week 2 January Week 3 and January Week 4 reflect increased interest in the playoffs. Of course February Week 1 receives the highest score on the entire calendar to capture the national sporting cultural phenomenon of the Super Bowl. In addition the weights may be determined based on rivalry playoff fantasy and other information determined about user and general audience interests as described above.

The recommendation engine combines operation of the bookkeeping and expert rules table to generate sporting related content item recommendations. As already set forth above a single viewing event may cause count increments across multiple tables within the bookkeeping module . The recommendation engine must account for this same phenomenon when generating a sporting related content item recommendation. For example a user may request content item recommendations from the recommendation engine by merely activating the user application . The recommendation engine must then analyze sporting related content items currently available for consumption in a time slot of interest to the viewer. This time slot may simply be the half hour time slot surrounding the time that the user activates the user device client application or may represent a specific time slot in the future selected by the user. Assume for illustrative purposes that five sporting content items are available at a given selected time slot. For each content item the recommendation engine resolves identifies attributes of user events associated with the content items from information collected by the action logger and information retrieved from the content store . Information from the action logger may include both individual user event information and across the population of users participating in the media system . Consider for example an event featuring a New Orleans Saints v. Atlanta Falcons matchup. The recommendation engine identifies all bookkeeping tables corresponding to attributes such as team sport players etc. The recommendation engine then retrieves user specific data maintained in identified tables and stored in the user profile database by the bookkeeping module . In addition the recommendation engine may retrieve population general interest data based on the tables such as the percent of all users watching the matchup those who often watch football watching the matchup etc. In addition the recommendation engine may determine the percentage of other users that are similar to the user or users overall watching or planning to watch the matchup or having watched a previous matchup featuring one or both of the teams .

Under an embodiment the bookkeeping module generates a score for the particular event. The bookkeeping module may generate a score with respect to each applicable bookkeeping table and then average all such scores to produce a final bookkeeping score. A simple average across bookkeeping scores may be used but the systems and methods disclosed herein are not so limited. The recommendation engine weights the bookkeeping score using weights from the rules tables. In the case of more than one applicable weight the recommendation engine averages the weights under one embodiment.

The recommendation engine identifies bookkeeping tables corresponding to such attributes and identified all expert rules tables i.e. weights corresponding to such attributes. The recommendation engine retrieves user attribute counts viewing occurrences relating to the content item attributes from tables maintained by bookkeeping module in the user profile. The bookkeeping module generates a preference score for the content item based on the attribute counts. For example the bookkeeping module may aggregate count data across bookkeeping tables to determine the user s preference for the content item based on viewing history.

The rules module then uses the attributes of the sporting related content item in the identified rules tables to determine any weights applicable to the event. The rules module then applies any identified weights to the bookkeeping score to produce a weighted preference score. The recommendation engine repeats this process e.g. steps for the sports related content items available at the particular time slot to generate the preference scores for the available sports content items.

The recommendation engine then provides recommended content items to the user device. Under an embodiment the recommendation engine is configured to recommend the top N programming options by preference score. To illustrate the recommendation engine could select the top N programs with the highest recommendation ratings where N represents the number of content selections the user device is configured to display in the sport category.

A machine learning module of the recommendation engine described in greater detail below assumes responsibility under an embodiment for monitoring user content item consumption and for recommending content items. However the rules module may also be used under an embodiment to adjust machine learning generated preference scores. The recommendation engine machine learning module may generate very low user preference scores for award show content but nevertheless recommend the Academy Awards show due to a rules adjustment to the preference score generated by the machine learning module . The weighting factor as maintained in appropriate expert rules tables for certain TV and movie events may be increased to a number sufficient to guarantee recommendation of each such major TV or movie event for viewing under an embodiment. As further examples rules may boost preference scores for season premiere and season final televisions shows and brand new televisions series. Rules may also downgrade preference scores for re runs shopping programs and paid vendor programs. Under an embodiment expert rules may be based on specified user preferences e.g. sports preferences and media preferences. Based on these preferences rules may for example block all soccer programming for a user who specifies that he or she never watches the sport or boost preference scores for animation programming for a user who specified interest in the genre.

As indicated above a machine learning module of the recommendation engine described in greater detail below assumes responsibility under an embodiment for monitoring user content item viewing activity and for recommending content items. The collaborative filtering techniques of the present disclosure are generally described in the example context of a recommendation engine that utilizes the collaborative filtering techniques disclosed herein to recommend identified content items such as movie and television programming content to the user. However the disclosed collaborative filtering techniques are by no means limited to this example context and instead can be used in recommender systems for any of a variety of items in any of a variety of contexts such as for generating recommendations for any of a variety of products or services including books movies movie rentals music news articles recipes and the like. To illustrate these collaborative filtering techniques can be implemented in conjunction with a bookseller s website for recommending books to a user or in conjunction with a movie renter s website for recommending movie rentals to a user.

The mathematical equations mathematical definitions mathematical expressions and other mathematical relationships described herein are identified as EQ. whereby is the associated identifying number for ease of identification.

The content store maintains information about content items available for viewing at the user premises. The user profile store and action log contain data representative of preference information including data representative of users profiles data representative of users explicit and implicit preference feedback data representative of the relationships between items or representative of the similarities of items data representative of the characteristics of items and the like.

The recommendation engine is configured to identify content items available to a user on their premises and provide a list of content items through the recommendation engine to the users device . The user device is configured to facilitate the implementation of one or more graphical user interfaces such as with the user application that provide a content based navigation interface as described in . In response to selection of a displayed content item the user application causes the user device to issue commands for controlling the various entertainment systems as necessary at the user s premise to display the selected content. Under at least one embodiment the recommendation engine implements a machine learning module e.g. software executed by one or more processors to identify recommended content items for the user using the collaborative filtering techniques described herein.

A user of a user device may indicate preference through a rating system presented through the GUI. The preference feedback obtained via the GUI can include explicit preference information implicit preference information or a combination thereof. To illustrate the GUI can include a user profile screen whereby the user can provide explicit feedback that potentially pertains to the user s general profile in the profile store such as the user s gender the user s age the user s geographical location e.g. zip code city state country etc. and the user s viewing preferences such as preferred content categories e.g. comedy drama action family etc. . The GUI also can obtain explicit item specific preferences from the user such as via a rating screen that lists recently viewed multimedia programs and provides the user an opportunity to provide explicit preference feedback with respect to each listed multimedia program e.g. through a user selectable star rating a thumbs up thumbs down rating etc. . The GUI also can obtain implicit preference information by monitoring the user s activities or based on provided information. This implicit preference feedback can include for example the types of multimedia programs selected by the user for viewing the frequency in which the user views a particular type of multimedia program the average length of time that the user views a multimedia program before switching to another multimedia program the entertainment systems used to present different content items and the like.

The user device may provide the user an opportunity to rank content i.e. to provide explicit feedback through a thumbs up thumbs down or 1 5 stars rating system. The user also provides implicit feedback by merely selecting and consuming content. As the viewer selects views media events the user device forwards viewing and preference data to the action logger and or the recommendation engine . The machine learning module of the recommendation engine monitors preference data and forwards preference feedback to the content store which then stores such feedback data. The machine learning module uses this preference feedback data to identify recommend content to the user based on collaborative techniques described herein. The recommendation engine then provides the recommended programs and viewing options to the user via for example the GUI of the user device.

Under an embodiment the machine learning module of the recommendation engine generates recommendation or preference scores using collaborative filtering models to generate recommendation or preference scores. For ease of reference during the following discussion of collaborative filtering models Table 1 set forth below illustrates the various symbols used in the equations and expressions described herein and their corresponding meanings or representations.

As noted by Table 1 special indexing letters are reserved for distinguishing users from items the index letters u and v for users and the index letters for items i and j. A rating rindicates the preference of user u for item i where higher values represent stronger preferences and vice versa. For example ratings can be integers ranging from 1 star indicating no interest to 5 stars indicating a strong interest. Predicted ratings are distinguished from known ones using the notation circumflex over r for the predicted value of r. The u i pairs for which ris known are stored in the set K u i rknown. Usually the vast majority of ratings are unknown. For example in the Netflix data 99 of the possible ratings are absent. In order to combat overfitting such sparse rating data the models disclosed herein can be regularized so that estimates are shrunk towards baseline defaults. Regularization is controlled by regularization constants which are denoted as . . . . Exact values of these regularization constants can be determined by cross validation such that as they increase in value regularization becomes heavier.

Typical content store and profile store datasets containing explicit implicit user feedback and preference data exhibit large user and item effects i.e. systematic tendencies for some users to give higher ratings than others and for some items to receive higher ratings than others. It is customary to adjust the data by accounting for these effects which are encapsulated within baseline estimates. EQ. 1 below represents a model for determining a baseline estimate denoted as b for an unknown rating rfor a selected user u and a selected item i whereby the model accounts for the user and item effects EQ. 1 whereby represents the overall average rating for the item i and the parameters band bindicate the observed deviations of user u and item i respectively from the average. For example suppose that a baseline estimate is desired for the rating of Movie A by User B. Assuming that the average rating over all movies is 3.7 stars and Movie A is better than an average movie so it tends to be rated 0.5 stars above the average. On the other hand User B is a critical user who tends to rate movies 0.3 stars lower than the average. Thus the baseline estimate for User B s rating of Movie A using EQ. 1 would be 3.9 stars 3.7 0.3 0.5 .

As discussed above the collaborative filtering may use neighborhood models. Early neighborhood models were user oriented and estimated unknown ratings based on recorded ratings of like minded users. Subsequently an item oriented neighborhood approaches were instituted. In these models a rating is estimated using known ratings made by the same user on similar items. Better scalability and improved accuracy make the item oriented approach more favorable in many cases. In addition item oriented neighborhood methods are more amenable to explaining the reasoning behind predictions. This is because users are familiar with items previously preferred by them but do not know those allegedly like minded users. Thus the neighborhood models described below are described in the context of item oriented approaches. However these techniques can be adapted for a user oriented approach by switching the roles of users and items without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Central to most item oriented neighborhood models is a similarity measure between items. Frequently it is based on the Pearson correlation coefficient which measures the tendency of users to rate items i and j similarly. Because many ratings typically are unknown it is expected that some items share only relatively few common raters. Computation of the correlation coefficient therefore is based only on the common user support. Accordingly similarities based on a greater user support are more reliable. An appropriate similarity measure denoted by s includes a shrunk correlation coefficient 

The variable ndenotes the number of users that rated both items i and j. A typical value for is 100 but it depends on the dataset and is determined by cross validation. Although EQ. 3 illustrates an example similarity measure alternate similarity measures can be implemented in place of the illustrated similarity measure.

The goal of a recommendation system is to predict r i.e. the unobserved rating by a selected user u for a selected item i and selectively recommend the item according to the predicted rating. To this end the k items rated by user u which are most similar to item i are identified by the recommender system using the similarity measure s. This set of k neighbors is denoted by S i u . As illustrated by EQ. 4 the predicted value of rcan taken as a weighted average of the ratings of neighboring items while adjusting for user and item effects through the baseline estimates 

Conventional neighborhood models of this form are frequently used because they are intuitive and relatively simple to implement. However such neighborhood schemes are subject to certain limitations. Most notably these conventional techniques are not justified by a formal model. Further the suitability of a similarity measure that isolates the relations between two items without analyzing the interactions within the full set of neighbors can be suspect. In addition the fact that interpolation weights in EQ. 4 sum to one 1 forces this method to fully rely on the neighbors even in cases where neighborhood information is absent i.e. user u did not rate items similar to i and it would be preferable to rely on baseline estimates.

Accordingly a more accurate conventional neighborhood model was developed in view of the above identified limitations in conventional neighborhood models. In this model the recommender system determines interpolation weights S i u for set of neighbors S i u that enable the best prediction rule of EQ. 5 

Derivation of the interpolation weights can be achieved by estimating all inner products between item ratings.

As discussed above latent factor models comprise an alternative approach to collaborative filtering with the more holistic goal to uncover latent features that explain observed ratings examples include Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis pLSA neural networks and Latent Dirichlet Allocation. More recently models that employ Singular Value Decomposition SVD on the user item ratings matrix gained popularity due to their accuracy and scalability. A typical conventional SVD based model associates each user u with a user factors vector p and each item i with an item factors vector q . A prediction for the preference of a selected user u for a selected item i can be calculated by taking an inner product as represented by EQ. 6 EQ. 6

However the more calculation intensive part is parameter estimation. In information retrieval SVD often is used to identify latent semantic factors. However applying SVD in the CF domain raises difficulties due to the high portion of missing ratings. Conventional SVD is undefined when knowledge about the matrix is incomplete. Moreover addressing only the relatively few known entries without the appropriate caution is highly prone to overfitting. Some conventional processes rely on imputation to fill in missing ratings and make the rating matrix dense. However this imputation can be very calculation intense as it significantly increases the amount of data. In addition the data may be considerably distorted due to inaccurate imputation. Accordingly other conventional processes have been developed that model directly only the observed ratings while avoiding overfitting through an adequate regularized model such as EQ. 7 

As described above a machine learning module may implement under an embodiment collaborative filtering techniques to predict user preferences for content or media items available for viewing. In at least one embodiment the recommendation engine uses a threshold weight to determine whether to recommend a particular Television or movie programming event based on a preference score generated by the machine learning module . To illustrate if the recommendation ratings for the set of viewing options have a possible range of 0.0 least recommended to 1.0 most recommended then a threshold weight of for example 0.7 could be used to determine whether to recommend content. In another embodiment the recommendation engine is configured to recommend the top N programming options by recommendation rating. To illustrate the recommendation component could select the ten N 10 multimedia programs with the highest recommendation ratings of the set of multimedia programs considered for recommendation. Under an embodiment the recommendation engine may rank programming options in each category of sport television and movie and use an allocation approach to present viewing options across all categories.

As set forth above the recommendation engine includes an allocation module . The allocation module monitors a user s viewing behavior and tracks the number of viewing selections in the categories of sport television and movie. If a user watches more sporting related content items than movies and television programming then the allocation module assigns a stronger weight to sporting related content item category. As but one example a user may watch eight sporting related content items one television program content item and one movie content item. The allocation module knows that a user based on viewing history selects sport programming 80 of the time movie programming 10 of the time and television programming 10 of the time. This information is useful when the recommendation engine selects recommended content items for a user. For example a user may activate the client application and select top picks to see top pick recommendations across sport television and movie categories. The recommendation engine using a combination of the bookkeeping tables rules and machine learning predictions then produces preference scores for sport television and viewing options and ranks content items in each such category using the preferences scores. The recommendation engine then uses information from the allocation module to allocate 80 of a total set of recommended viewing options to sporting contents and thereafter 10 to television and 10 to movies.

Under an embodiment the machine learning module of the recommendation engine monitors its performance through the use of evaluation metrics. Metrics serve a dual purpose. First metrics are used to evaluate the performance of an algorithm itself and to compare the performance of one algorithm against another. Also metrics may also be used to measure a system s overall quality using a simple score. In the context of a recommendation engine a system metric under one embodiment compares predicted versus real user preference scores. The Netflix competition provides an example of a performance metric used to determine the effectiveness of recommendation algorithms.

In October 2006 Netflix Inc. initiated a contest the Netflix Prize with the goal to improve upon the current movie recommender system Cinematch implemented by Netflix. To this end Netflix released a test dataset of over 1.4 million recent movie ratings the test set and a validation dataset of over 1.4 million ratings the probe set which is used to validate the performance of a recommender system on the test set. These two datasets are collectively referred to herein as the Netflix data . Netflix s Cinematch algorithm achieved a RMSE prediction error of 0.9514 on the test set and Netflix has declared the grand prize winner will be the first contestant to develop a process that provides a 10 improvement or an RMSE of 0.8563 over their Cinematch algorithm on the test set. The two sets of the Netflix data contain many more ratings by users that do not rate much and are harder to predict. Thus they accurately represent the typical datasets available to a recommendation engine which is implemented to predict new ratings from older ones and to equally address all users not only the users who rate most frequently.

Under an embodiment the recommendation engine is evaluated against the Netflix dataset itself in order to determine the quality of television and movie recommendations using the RMSE metric. Accordingly the RMSE or alternative metric as evaluated against the Netflix test data may be used i to compare and evaluate the performance and accuracy of different machine learning algorithms an ii to adjust and tune parameters of an individual algorithm. Under an alternative embodiment the recommendation engine may collect explicit user feedback on programming and create a dataset of know responses. The algorithms of the machine learning module may then be evaluated by comparing predicted versus real content scores using an RMSE or alternative metric.

A bookkeeping module and a rules module generate preference scores and corresponding recommendations for sporting related content item content. The rules module adjusts bookkeeping preference scores to account for known viewing behaviors that are not easily captured by empirical tracking and analysis of viewing events and occurrences. Under an embodiment a machine learning module generates preference scores and corresponding recommendations for Television and Movie programming. As already described above a rules module may also be used to weight or adjust machine learning preference scores.

Under yet another embodiment a time adjustment module further weights all such preference scores by evaluating a media event s proximity to real time availability. The timing component accounts for the appeal of immediately available content and provides a score boost for currently available time slot. The recommendation engine uses the time adjustment module to increase ratings or preference scores for programming available for immediate viewing. Under an embodiment programming available for viewing within several hours of current time receive a lower ratings boost. Programming available outside this 1 2 hour window but within a larger twenty four hours programming period may receive an even lower ratings boost while programming beyond the twenty four hour threshold may receive no ratings boost at all. Alternative embodiments may assign time adjusted weighting using any combination of programming windows of varying lengths and associated with varying weights.

Under an embodiment the recommendation engine uses the time adjustment module to apply time adjustments in real time for a given time period of interest to a user. For example a user may select a movie category using the user device thereby requesting recommendations for movie programming at a given time. Under an embodiment of the user device interface a user may scroll across thirty minute time slots to view movies available at later time segments. The time adjustment module adjusts preference scores upward for content immediately available for viewing and conversely downwardly adjusts preference scores for content not available until a later time segment. If a user device is configured to present content in discrete time thirty minute time bins a time adjustment module may therefore weed out all but the highest rated content for viewing segments in the future. As one example a user may request a recommendation for movies in a current 8 00 8 30 PM CST time slot. The user device will populate such time slot with movie recommendations. As the user scroll forward to see recommendations in later time slots a time adjustment formula downgrades content items based on its distance from real time availability. Under an embodiment the user device only presents movies that achieve threshold preference values. As the user scrolls to time segments further and further from the current real time of user device use only the movies with very high ratings will maintain preference scores over a threshold value in the face of downward adjustments applied by the time adjustment formula. Under another embodiment the recommendation engine and user device are configured to provide recommendations across a large time block e.g. movies available over the next twenty four hour period. Under this embodiment the recommendation engine is configured to present the top e.g. twenty pieces of content over such time period. The time adjustment module downgrades movies available later in the time interval versus movies immediately available for viewing. Under yet another embodiment the recommendation engine provides recommended content for movies available via streaming over an Internet connection e.g. Netflix. Under this embodiment a user device may recommend Netflix content anytime i.e. the Netflix content is available in any particular time segment as long as the content s preference score is high enough to meet a visibility threshold imposed by the recommendation engine . As a user scrolls to time segments in the future the time adjustment module continues to adjust a preference score for Netflix content upward due to its immediate availability. Therefore the user device features a greater selection of Netflix or otherwise immediately available streaming content in time slots that are distant from the current real time of the user.

It should be noted that if a user s television is off the user device does not know if or when a user will decide to activate and view the television. Under one embodiment the recommendation engine is configured to provide recommendations to a user within a large block of time. For example a recommendation engine may be configured to provide recommendations to a user for content available within the next two weeks. As this block of time grows longer the recommendation engine effectively provides preference scores and corresponding recommended content for all available programming irrespective of time.

The timing adjustment component includes temporal or timing models to track time varying popularity of TV and movie items and time varying tastes of individuals. Timing models are useful to detect both long term changes in user behavior and short term burst changes including changes over a month or day to day. Therefore timing models may capture gradual preference changes e.g. slow change of a child s television viewing preferences over time and short term preference shifts e.g. viewing behavior changes on certain days such as Halloween. Timing models may also identify long term and short term popularity of items. For example certain movies may prove to sustain long term popularity. However other movies may develop short term interest or popularity for short periods of time e.g. during Christmas or after an Oscar nomination. Note that for timing models to be effective data must be collected for several years. Therefore a recommendation engine under one embodiment maintains data for timing models from start up of operation and incorporates timing models once sufficient data is collected. Under one embodiment a timing adjustment component of the recommendation engine analyzes the timing model dataset to develop adjustment weights that may then be applied to preference scores generated by the machine learning module .

As described above computer networks suitable for use with the embodiments described herein include local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN Internet or other connection services and network variations such as the world wide web the public internet a private internet a private computer network a public network a mobile network a cellular network a value added network and the like. Computing devices coupled or connected to the network may be any microprocessor controlled device that permits access to the network including terminal devices such as personal computers workstations servers mini computers main frame computers laptop computers mobile computers palm top computers hand held computers mobile phones TV set top boxes or combinations thereof. The computer network may include one of more LANs WANs Internets and computers. The computers may serve as servers clients or a combination thereof.

The media system including a recommendation engine can be a component of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The media system can also be a subcomponent or subsystem of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The media system can be coupled to one or more other components not shown of a host system or a system coupled to the host system.

One or more components of the media system and the media control environment and or a corresponding system or application to which the media system is coupled or connected includes and or runs under and or in association with a processing system. The processing system includes any collection of processor based devices or computing devices operating together or components of processing systems or devices as is known in the art. For example the processing system can include one or more of a portable computer portable communication device operating in a communication network and or a network server. The portable computer can be any of a number and or combination of devices selected from among personal computers personal digital assistants portable computing devices and portable communication devices but is not so limited. The processing system can include components within a larger computer system.

The processing system of an embodiment includes at least one processor and at least one memory device or subsystem. The processing system can also include or be coupled to at least one database. The term processor as generally used herein refers to any logic processing unit such as one or more central processing units CPUs digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASIC etc. The processor and memory can be monolithically integrated onto a single chip distributed among a number of chips or components and or provided by some combination of algorithms. The methods described herein can be implemented in one or more of software algorithm s programs firmware hardware components circuitry in any combination.

The components of any system that includes the media system can be located together or in separate locations. Communication paths couple the components and include any medium for communicating or transferring files among the components. The communication paths include wireless connections wired connections and hybrid wireless wired connections. The communication paths also include couplings or connections to networks including local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs proprietary networks interoffice or backend networks and the Internet. Furthermore the communication paths include removable fixed mediums like floppy disks hard disk drives and CD ROM disks as well as flash RAM Universal Serial Bus USB connections RS 232 connections telephone lines buses and electronic mail messages.

Aspects of the media system and corresponding systems and methods described in the media control environment herein may be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry including programmable logic devices PLDs such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable array logic PAL devices electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell based devices as well as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Some other possibilities for implementing aspects of the media control system and corresponding systems and methods include microcontrollers with memory such as electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM embedded microprocessors firmware software etc. Furthermore aspects of the media control system and corresponding systems and methods may be embodied in microprocessors having software based circuit emulation discrete logic sequential and combinatorial custom devices fuzzy neural logic quantum devices and hybrids of any of the above device types. Of course the underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET technologies like complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar technologies like emitter coupled logic ECL polymer technologies e.g. silicon conjugated polymer and metal conjugated polymer metal structures mixed analog and digital etc.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in a sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein hereunder above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word or is used in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above description of embodiments of the media control environment and corresponding systems and methods is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the media system recommendation engine user device user application and corresponding systems and methods are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the systems and methods as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. The teachings of the media control environment and corresponding systems and methods provided herein can be applied to other systems and methods not only for the systems and methods described above.

In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the media control environment and corresponding systems and methods to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all systems that operate under the claims. Accordingly the media control environment and corresponding systems and methods is not limited by the disclosure but instead the scope is to be determined entirely by the claims.

While certain aspects of the media control environment and corresponding systems and methods are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the media control system and corresponding systems and methods in any number of claim forms. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the media control system and corresponding systems and methods.

