---

title: Continuous authentic of mobile device users
abstract: Technology for performing continuous authentication of a mobile device utilizes user activity context data and biometric signature data related to the user. A biometric signature can be selected based on the activity context, and the selected biometric signature can be used to verify the identity of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578024&OS=09578024&RS=09578024
owner: SRI INTERNATIONAL
number: 09578024
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150821
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 62 093 460 filed Dec. 18 2014 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 62 181 247 filed Jun. 18 2015 each of which is incorporated herein by this reference in its entirety.

This invention was made in part with government support under contract number FA8750 13 C 0265 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Today to use a mobile device one typically needs to first unlock the mobile device. Even for an emergency call a user may need to click on a number of buttons to activate a mobile device enter a password enter phone numbers etc. Pushing a button and typing in numbers requires concentration and precision operation which may prove difficult in certain situations especially in time critical conditions. The current ways utilized to access a mobile device are often tedious and sometimes may delay important and time sensitive access to the mobile device.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. It should be understood that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed. On the contrary the intent is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

Using the sensors of a mobile device a system can capture user specific device movement signatures and associate these signatures to phone operations such as unlock the phone send out a message activate a sensor or call a number. However because user specific device dynamics are unique the system cannot always confidently identify a user. To further reduce false alarm rates the system can provide a verification request by the phone such as through a pre defined pattern of vibration. Moreover even if an authorized user has unlocked the phone today s devices have no way to verify that the authorized user is continuing to use the device. For instance the authorized user may hand the phone over to a friend or family member or the device may be picked up by a stranger as in the case where the authorized user may have accidentally left their phone somewhere .

Embodiments of the technology disclosed herein can utilize constraints imposed by the human physicality on the dynamics of the mobile device to make anthropometric measurements of the human body. These measurements are then fused with the distinctive motion signature during a particular mobile device related activity e.g. picking up putting down typing etc. for authentication of the user. The determination of human physical measurements for device motion and also the use of motion signatures in the context of device related activity are distinctive aspects of the system. The system extracts both physical traits e.g. arm length height gait pulse rate blood pressure etc. and style of the user e.g. picking up putting down texting etc. .

Referring now to a number N where N is a positive integer of participants may interact with the computing system. A computing system is equipped with one or more sensing devices which track the participants and capture input data including activity context inputs and biometric inputs relating to the participants handling or use of the computing system. A user authentication subsystem embodied in the computing system analyzes and interprets the inputs and identifies therefrom the activity context and biometric signature expressed by one or more of the participants over time and in a substantially continuous fashion.

The illustrative user authentication subsystem assesses the level of access control via access control module based on the score generated by authentication module . Using the activity context the user authentication subsystem selects a biometric signature of the user or which is passed to the authentication module to generate score . Score generation module compares the biometric signature to a stored biometric signature key found in the enrolled user model . In the event that a match is not found a new key is generated by the biometric key generation module and is stored in the enrolled user model . The generated score represents a confidence score. Score is then passed to the access control module of the user authentication subsystem to provide access to one or more applications of the computing system .

As indicated above the participants and include at least one human participant. The computing system includes but is not limited to electronic devices e.g. smart phones tablet computers or other electronic devices . In general the interaction or activity context by the participants with the computing system indicated by the dashed lines between for example user and sensing device prompt the user authentication subsystem to perform authentication steps. In the event that a user is not interacting with a device i.e. the computing system is resting on a table or riding in a car the sensors would detect this and authentication steps would not be performed.

The sensing device s is are configured to capture or collect activity contexts and biometric data related to the user or participant. For ease of discussion the term capture may be used herein to refer to any suitable technique s for the collection capture recording obtaining or receiving of data from the sensing device s and or other electronic devices or systems. In some cases one or more of the sensing devices may be located remotely from the user authentication subsystem and thus the user authentication subsystem may obtain or receive the activity context data and biometric signature data by electronic communications over one or more telecommunications and or computer networks using e.g. push pull and or other data transfer methods .

Activity context means generally that at least one type of data is captured by at least one sensing device based on what the user is currently doing e.g. walking running sitting or laying down . For example the activity context data may include motion or other types of data related to motion. Biometric signature means generally that at least one type of data is captured by at least one sensing device based on the user s unique physiological and or physical characteristics e.g. gait height arm length breathing rate blood pressure pulse etc. .

The sensing device s may thus include for instance a motion sensor or motion sensing system an accelerometer a proximity sensor a gyroscope an electronic compass a proxemics sensor a temperature sensor a physiological sensor e.g. heart rate and or respiration rate sensor and or any other type of sensor that may be useful to capture data that may be pertinent to the collection of activity context and biometric signature information. In some cases one or more of the sensing devices may be positioned unobtrusively e.g. so that the participants are not distracted by the authentication process. In some cases one or more of the sensing devices may be attached to or carried by one or more of the participants . For instance physiological sensors worn or carried by one or more of the participants may produce data signals that can be analyzed by the user authentication subsystem . Additionally in some cases one or more of the sensing devices may be housed together e.g. as part of a mobile electronic device such as a smart phone or tablet computer that may be carried by a participant or positioned in an inconspicuous or conspicuous location as may be desired in particular embodiments of the system . In any event the data signals produced by the sensing device s provide the activity context inputs and or the biometric inputs that are analyzed by the user authentication subsystem .

The illustrative user authentication subsystem is embodied as a number of computerized modules and data structures including an activity context analyzer module a biometric signature extractor module an authentication module an access control module an enrolled user model and one or more activity context classifiers . The activity context analyzer module applies the activity context classifiers to the activity context inputs to identify therefrom the activity context expressed by one or more of the participants . In some embodiments the feature classifiers are embodied as statistical or probabilistic algorithms that for example take an input x and determine a mathematical likelihood that x is similar to a known feature based on training performed on the classifier using a large number of known samples. If a match is found for the input x with a high enough degree of confidence the data stream is annotated or labeled with the corresponding description accordingly. Activity contexts include walking running sitting standing lying down or any other suitable activity. The determined activity context is then utilized by biometric signature extraction module to select the biometric input of biometric inputs . Biometric signature extractor module includes sub modules gait arm length blood pressure height breathing rate and pulse . These sub modules process the stream of biometric inputs to then determine a biometric signature of the user.

Authentication module is in communication with enrolled user model and contains two sub modules biometric key generation module and score generation module . Based on biometric signature the authentication module either creates a new biometric key using biometric key generation module if the user is consider a new user or generates a confidence score by comparing biometric signature to a stored key in enrolled user model which is output as score .

The objective of the authentication module is to decrypt and integrate the signature information compare it with the user model and generate a confidence value for authentication. The authentication module fuses any available physical and behavioral information received from the mobile device to generate the score. The fusion of evidence is carried on two levels fusion of physical and behavioral modalities and fusion over signatures over time. For illustrative purposes a dynamic Probabilistic Graphical Model PGM for the information fusion and authentication score generation may be used. A PGM is learned for each user with the goal of directly incorporating the structural and transitional knowledge about the identity of the person interacting with the mobile device.

Biometric key generation module may receive the physical and behavioral signatures via biometric inputs . This module has a buffer not shown to store recent biometric signatures and activity contexts. When the user enters a pin as a claim of identity to unlock the device this module encrypts the identity claim the available biometric signatures and corresponding activity contexts and timestamps. The module sends the encrypted information to the enrolled user model . The module uses for example the SHA 512 secure hash algorithm for encryption.

Access control module may contain a number of sub modules e.g. full access denied access and limited access . The access control module processes the score and executes one of the sub modules that provide either full limited or no access to one or more features of the mobile device. For example full access would enable the user to utilize all of the features of a device whereas limited access would provide access only to a few applications e.g. camera web browser .

In some embodiments the modules and may be integrated with the user authentication subsystem e.g. as part of the same app . In other embodiments one or more of the modules and may be embodied as separate applications e.g. third party applications that interface with the user authentication subsystem via one or more electronic communication networks.

The activity context may be also determined for advanced situational awareness and real time personal assistance beyond a mere GPS based location report. The continuous detection of a user s activity while the user is in possession of the device provides a myriad of applications. Beyond the utilization of a user s activity context for continuous authentication embodiment of the present invention may also be used for providing alerts. Based on certain detected activity contexts specified alerts may be generated based on predetermined alert setting configurations as set by the device user or a third party service. Using the aforementioned sensors an alert may be generated based on certain situations. Non limiting examples include but are not limited to an alert generated in response to the detection of a predetermined activity context e.g. if an elderly person falls if a firefighter falls or becomes still police activity e.g. chasing a suspect firing of a weapon and providing help accordingly as needed with respect to specific alerts. The activity context detection module may be further enhanced by taking into account data received from further devices like a body camera or a GoPro camera or the like. Detected alerts may then be aggregated for later use. Later use includes but is not limited to the creation of a diary or log of the alerts and any type of collected data that may have existed at the time of or close in time to the detected alert. The alerts may be logged in a daily weekly or monthly report or any specific time period. For example an alert event may be marked for subsequent review with respect to a video creation module for video editing.

Referring now to an illustration of instance of events of authentication and access control that may be generated by the user authentication subsystem is shown. The participant not shown is observed by one or more of the sensing devices over time during interaction with the mobile device. The activity context and biometric inputs e.g. walking blood pressure gait are analyzed by the user authentication subsystem . As a result of its analysis the user authentication subsystem generates the output based on the inputs and access control is determined.

Referring now to an illustrative method for performing user authentication is shown. The method may be embodied as computerized programs routines logic and or instructions of the user authentication subsystem for example. At block the method captures activity context data and biometric signature s of the participants using the sensing device s as described above. At block the method determines the activity context of the user using the activity context analyzer module . At block the method selects a biometric signature based on the activity context . At block the method by the authentication module selects a signature key i.e. user model from enrolled user model . If a user model is found the method moves to block and generates a confidence score by comparing the found user model biometric key to the biometric signature . At block the method determines a level of access by the access control module based on the confidence score . As long as the device is still in use the decision Yes will be selected at block . In the event at block that a user model is not found No then the method would move to block to prompt the user for alternate credentials. At block the biometric key generation module would create a new biometric key which is then stored in the enrolled user model for future use. Method would then move to block and the authentication process would continue. Continuous authentication is realized by repeating the steps of authenticating at regular intervals like every two minutes or the like. In one embodiment the regular interval is any discrete time interval i.e. sampling rate that could be based on test results configured by the user or triggered by a certain event like a change in activity context.

Referring now to an illustration of accelerometer signals for three activities are shown. The first row shows the signal in XYZ dimensions and the second row shows its magnitude. Signals are very different for different activities and the proposed system can automatically differentiate between them. For example the activity context analyzer module detects usage activity of device i.e. is the device being picked up or put down is it in the pocket of a walking person or a sitting person . Some common contexts activities that are detected include but are not limited to walking running sitting down sitting still standing up standing still lying down climbing stairs descending stairs etc. If the system detects the activity of a phone pickup the pickup style and anthropometry signatures will be extracted. Depending on the context the biometric signature extraction extracts the user s particular behavior or style based biometric signature and estimates the user s physical properties like arm length height or gait characteristics. The biometric signature extractor extracts the user s behavior from mobile device dynamics for each action context. Fine grained user behavior features are extracted from all three sources of dynamics data. Extracted features include filters over the dynamic signal including auto regressive models HAAR filters and statistical features of signals computed over multiple length time windows consisting of mean standard deviation variance interquartile range IQR mean absolute deviation MAD and correlation between axes entropy and kurtosis. In order to select the most discriminative features and to reduce the total amount of data required for authentication automatic feature selection is used to obtain the behavior signature for each activity. Use of this action context as set forth previously makes fine grained authentication possible because mobile device dynamics are different under different activities even for the same person as demonstrated by .

Referring now to and an illustration of accelerometer feature data for activities pick up a phone running and sitting is shown. shows results for activity detection in which sensor data was collected for five activities with two different users. The data for each activity is split into two parts with each part obtained from a different user. shows the distribution of features for three different activities. shows a dissimilarity matrix between the different activities. The distance between the same activities carried out by different users is less than the distance between different activities carried out by the same users.

Referring now to an illustration of a PGM model for a user is shown. The dynamic graphical model integrates the contextual physical and behavioral information over time to generate the authentication score. The PGM parameter learning takes place during the user enrollment phase key generation . The user goes through natural interactions with the mobile device. The activity context and the extracted physical and behavioral signatures are extracted and stored for training the PGM.

Referring now to illustrates a use example of a continuous authentication process over time. The x axis represents time and the y axis represents the score. A threshold is shown for exemplary purposes where when the score is above the threshold full access is given to the mobile device and when the score dips below this threshold no access is given. In an alternative embodiment when the score is within a certain range of the threshold limited access is given. Turning back to the example of where the plot of the score drops dramatically below the threshold this represents an exemplary security event where a perpetrator may have picked up the user s phone. In this instance the perpetrator s gait would not match a verified signature in enrolled user model and the device would deny the perpetrator access and the device would be locked. 

Disclosed is a non intrusive and continuous verification of a user s identity from mobile dynamics. For example the inputs into the system are gait signals composed from 3D linear acceleration and 3D gyroscope sampled at 100 Hz from a mobile device. The output from the system is an authentication score showing how likely the user of the device is actually authorized to use the device by comparing the obtained gait signals with previously enrolled gait signals. Unlike traditional gait based authentication methods that directly compare signatures extracted from movement data the system filters out non gait signals through activity detection. Non gait signal filtering improves the authentication performance through temporal score fusion.

Referring now to a simplified block diagram of an exemplary hardware environment for the computing system in which the user authentication subsystem may be implemented is shown. The illustrative implementation includes a computing device which may be in communication with one or more other computing systems or devices via one or more networks . Illustratively a portion A of the user authentication subsystem is local to the computing device while another portion B is distributed across one or more of the other computing systems or devices that are connected to the network s . For example in some embodiments portions of the authentication module may be stored locally while other portions are distributed across a network and likewise for other components of the user authentication subsystem . In some embodiments however the user authentication subsystem may be located entirely on the computing device . In some embodiments portions of the user authentication subsystem may be incorporated into other systems or interactive software applications. Such applications or systems may include for example operating systems middleware or framework e.g. application programming interface or API software and or user level applications software e.g. a virtual personal assistant another interactive software application or a user interface for a computing device .

The illustrative computing device includes at least one processor e.g. a microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor etc. memory and an input output I O subsystem . The computing device may be embodied as any type of computing device such as a personal computer e.g. desktop laptop tablet smart phone body mounted device etc. a server an enterprise computer system a network of computers a combination of computers and other electronic devices or other electronic devices. Although not specifically shown it should be understood that the I O subsystem typically includes among other things an I O controller a memory controller and one or more I O ports. The processor and the I O subsystem are communicatively coupled to the memory . The memory may be embodied as any type of suitable computer memory device e.g. volatile memory such as various forms of random access memory .

The I O subsystem is communicatively coupled to a number of components including one or more user input devices e.g. a touchscreen keyboard virtual keypad microphone etc. one or more storage media one or more output devices e.g. speakers LEDs etc. the one or more sensing devices described above one or more camera or other sensor applications e.g. software based sensor controls and one or more network interfaces . The storage media may include one or more hard drives or other suitable data storage devices e.g. flash memory memory cards memory sticks and or others . In some embodiments portions of systems software e.g. an operating system etc. framework middleware e.g. APIs object libraries etc. and or the user authentication subsystem A reside at least temporarily in the storage media . Portions of systems software framework middleware and or the user authentication subsystem A may be copied to the memory during operation of the computing device for faster processing or other reasons.

The one or more network interfaces may communicatively couple the computing device to a local area network wide area network personal cloud enterprise cloud public cloud and or the Internet for example. Accordingly the network interfaces may include one or more wired or wireless network interface cards or adapters for example as may be needed pursuant to the specifications and or design of the particular computing system . The other computing system s may be embodied as any suitable type of computing system or device such as any of the aforementioned types of devices or other electronic devices or systems. For example in some embodiments the other computing systems may include one or more server computers used to store portions of the enrolled user model . The computing system may include other components sub components and devices not illustrated in for clarity of the description. In general the components of the computing system are communicatively coupled as shown in by electronic signal paths which may be embodied as any type of wired or wireless signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the respective devices and components.

A method for securing a mobile electronic device of a user is disclosed. With a computing system comprising at least the mobile electronic device by one or more sensors in communication with the mobile electronic device collecting sensor data from which a plurality of different biometric signatures of the user of the mobile electronic device can be derived. Based on at least some of the sensor data an activity context of the mobile electronic device is determined A biometric signature based on the activity context is selected from a plurality of different biometric signatures. A routine is then executed to verify the identity of the user. Based on the identity verification one or more features of the mobile electronic device is made available to the user. A different biometric signature is selected in response to a change in the activity context of the mobile electronic device and the routine to verify the identity is re executed.

A confidence score indicative of a likelihood that the selected biometric signature is associated with the user based on the verification step. Over time access privileges to the device may be changed in accordance with the confidence score. When a change in activity context is detected the confidence score is re computed. The confidence score is updated based on a detection of a different user carrying or handling the device. The plurality of different biometric signatures of the user comprises data indicative of at least two of gait signature arm length height breathing rate pulse rate or blood pressure of a user carrying the mobile electronic device. The activity context comprises data indicative of at least one of walking running sitting down sitting still standing up standing still lying down ascending stairs or descending stairs by a user carrying the mobile electronic device. If the identity verification is unsuccessful the user is prompted for another form of user identifying information like a PIN code. Based on successful verification of the user based on the alternative form of user identifying information a new biometric signature is a created and stored for the user.

In the foregoing description numerous specific details examples and scenarios are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. Further such examples and scenarios are provided for illustration and are not intended to limit the disclosure in any way. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions should be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to an embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is believed to be within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly indicated.

Embodiments in accordance with the disclosure may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored using one or more machine readable media which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device or a virtual machine running on one or more computing devices . For example a machine readable medium may include any suitable form of volatile or non volatile memory.

Modules data structures and the like defined herein are defined as such for ease of discussion and are not intended to imply that any specific implementation details are required. For example any of the described modules and or data structures may be combined or divided into sub modules sub processes or other units of computer code or data as may be required by a particular design or implementation of the user authentication subsystem .

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements may be shown for ease of description. However the specific ordering or arrangement of such elements is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required in all embodiments. In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks or modules may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction and each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools or frameworks. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or data structure. Further some connections relationships or associations between elements may be simplified or not shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure.

This disclosure is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character and all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the disclosure are desired to be protected. For example while certain aspects of the present disclosure may be described in the context of a human human interaction it should be understood that the various aspects are applicable to human device interactions and or other types of human interactions.

