---

title: Heuristic electronic monitoring security device association
abstract: The present invention includes a security-monitoring platform adapted to automatically create associations between electronic monitoring security devices and security alerts on the fly. As alerts occur, the security-monitoring platform operator may select one or more electronic monitoring security devices to aid in processing the security alert, and the security-monitoring platform automatically identifies the selected electronic monitoring security device(s) and creates an association between the selected electronic monitoring security device(s) and the security alert. The security-monitoring platform will then automatically display the associated electronic monitoring security device to the operator when that same security alert is subsequently triggered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652974&OS=09652974&RS=09652974
owner: Sureview Systems, LLC
number: 09652974
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151221
---
This nonprovisional application is a continuation of and claims priority to provisional application No. 62 094 611 entitled Heuristic Security Event Association filed Dec. 19 2014 by the same inventor.

This invention relates generally to the association of electronic monitoring security devices to specific alerts in a security monitoring platform. More specifically it relates to a security monitoring platform having the ability to associate a particular electronic monitoring security device to another electronic monitoring security device and or a specific alert on the fly and learn that association for future automated camera display.

Securing an asset or facility often requires more than single security system. Ideally there should exist several security systems all monitored and controlled by a single security monitoring platform SMP . Security systems include but are not limited to video systems to provide a view of what is happening at the location door access control systems to control who can access the location or areas within intrusion detection systems to detect intruders for example motion detection sensors detecting body heat audio systems to provide one way or two way audio communications lone worker GPS enabled devices with a panic button for guards and situational awareness systems to provide information outside of traditional alarm sources such as earthquake and weather warnings.

SMPs are often employed to help monitor and control the various electronic monitoring security devices provided by the security systems. An electronic monitoring security device includes but is not limited to any alarm source video source output or audio source connected to any security system.

The SMP is designed to integrate several security systems into a single platform. As shown in security system and in turn its electronic monitoring security devices are in communication with SMP using manufacturer s application programming interface API . Once connected the SMP operator is capable of interacting with the particular electronic monitoring security devices provided by each system i.e. receive alarms from the alarm devices view live video from camera devices control the outputs of output devices and transmit receive audio from audio devices . provides a simplified illustration of SMP communicating with only a single security system however SMPs are intended to operate with several security systems to provide a fully integrated platform.

The electronic monitoring security devices are preferably strategically arranged with respect to one another to provide the SMP operator with optimal situational awareness. For example provides a simplistic illustration of room s security measures where every alarm source is caught in the view frame of a camera respectively. As a result an SMP operator can fetch a specific camera feed to view the source of an alarm triggering alert.

When working with a limited number of electronic monitoring security devices a system operator may easily memorize which devices provide situational awareness for each alert such as which camera provides a view of a particular alarm source. In contrast when the system operator is responsible for hundreds or even thousands of alarm sources and cameras it is nearly impossible for an operator to memorize even just the cameras associated with each alarm source. The current state of the art as shown in addresses this issue by requiring operator to manually create relationships between each camera and each alarm source in the data store prior to launching SMP .

The problem with the current art is that the associations between one or more electronic monitoring security device and or alerts i.e. cameras and alarm sources must be manually inputted before fully implementing the security system and monitoring platform. As previously noted some security systems include hundreds or even thousands of electronic monitoring security devices resulting in an extensive amount of time and money to properly associate each security alert with one or more electronic monitoring security devices prior to operation. In addition any updates to the electronic monitoring security devices in operation or inclusions of additional electronic monitoring security devices requires a manual association update which may necessitate an operator to visit the site to determine the correct associations.

Accordingly what is needed is a system and method to reduce the time and effort needed to create and maintain an association between each electronic monitoring security device association and another electronic monitoring security device and or a security alert. However in view of the art considered as a whole at the time the present invention was made it was not obvious to those of ordinary skill in the field of this invention how the shortcomings of the prior art could be overcome.

All referenced publications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Furthermore where a definition or use of a term in a reference which is incorporated by reference herein is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein the definition of that term provided herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not apply.

While certain aspects of conventional technologies have been discussed to facilitate disclosure of the invention Applicants in no way disclaim these technical aspects and it is contemplated that the claimed invention may encompass one or more of the conventional technical aspects discussed herein.

The present invention may address one or more of the problems and deficiencies of the prior art discussed above. However it is contemplated that the invention may prove useful in addressing other problems and deficiencies in a number of technical areas. Therefore the claimed invention should not necessarily be construed as limited to addressing any of the particular problems or deficiencies discussed herein.

In this specification where a document act or item of knowledge is referred to or discussed this reference or discussion is not an admission that the document act or item of knowledge or any combination thereof was at the priority date publicly available known to the public part of common general knowledge or otherwise constitutes prior art under the applicable statutory provisions or is known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.

The long standing but heretofore unfulfilled need for a system and method to reduce the time and effort needed to create and maintain an association between an electronic monitoring security device and another electronic monitoring security and or a security alert is now met by a new useful and nonobvious invention.

The novel invention includes a method and system for automatically creating association between security alerts and one or more electronic monitoring security devices on the fly as alerts occur. The present invention includes an association module in electronic communication with a security system and a security monitoring platform SMP . The SMP encapsulates an application programming interface for one or more security systems intended to operate in conjunction with the SMP and stores access information for each security system in a data store that is electronically linked to the SMP. In an embodiment the SMP retrieves a list of possible security alerts producible by each electronic monitoring security device and stores the list in the SMP data store. In an embodiment the electronic monitoring security devices are categorized into types of electronic monitoring security devices. For example the categories may include cameras alarms door readers outputs window readers etc.

In an embodiment the SMP presents the operator with a security alert list on the SMP operator interface. The association module monitors the security alert list and identifies any operator selected security alerts. In an embodiment the alert may be automatically chosen for the operator based on a predetermined priority. Once an alert is selected or presented to the operator the association module automatically initiates the association protocol.

In an embodiment the security alert list may include electronic monitoring security devices instead of specific alerts from the electronic monitoring security devices or may include both electronic monitoring security devices and specific alerts from electronic monitoring security devices.

The association protocol includes several steps in automatically associating of one or more electronic monitoring security devices with a security alert. The association module first identifies the security alert selected by or presented to the operator. Then the association module automatically accesses the data store to determine whether any electronic monitoring security devices are digitally associated with the selected security alert.

If a digital association exists between the selected security alert and any of the electronic monitoring security devices the association module automatically presents the associated electronic monitoring security device s to the operator on the SMP operator interface.

In an embodiment regardless of whether a digital association currently exists between the security alert and one of the electronic monitoring security devices a list of electronic monitoring security devices is displayed to the operator on the SMP operator interface. In an embodiment the list might only be displayed when an association does not exist between the security alert and electronic monitoring security devices.

In an embodiment that categorizes the electronic monitoring security devices into separate lists each categorized list of electronic monitoring security devices is presented to the operator. In a certain embodiment only the categories of electronic monitoring security devices that do not already include an association of an electronic monitoring security device with the current security alert are presented to the operator.

After the list s of electronic monitoring security devices is presented to the operator the association module monitors the list s to determine whether the operator selects one of the electronic monitoring security devices from the list s of electronic monitoring security devices. Each time an operator selects an electronic monitoring security device from the list of electronic monitoring security devices the selected electronic monitoring security device is displayed to the operator on the SMP operator interface. In an embodiment the association module automatically creates a digital association between the selected electronic monitoring security device and the selected security alert each time that an electronic monitoring security device is selected.

In an embodiment the association module automatically creates a digital association between the selected electronic monitoring security device and the selected security alert when the operator performs an end processing action. In an embodiment the digital association is between the selected security alert and the electronic monitoring security device that was last selected before the operator performed the end processing action.

In an embodiment a digital association is automatically created between the selected security alert and the selected electronic monitoring security device for each of the plurality of categories of electronic monitoring security devices.

In an embodiment cross associations are automatically created between each of the electronic monitoring security devices that are associated with a single selected security alert.

In an embodiment any previous associations between the selected security alert and an electronic monitoring security device are removed when an association is created between the selected security alert and another electronic monitoring security device.

In an embodiment the SMP operator interface may display several electronic monitoring security devices simultaneously and digital associations may be created between the selected security alert and each of the selected electronic monitoring security device displayed on the SMP operator interface when the end processing action is performed.

Once an association is created it is stored in the SMP data store. When the security alert is subsequently triggered every associated electronic monitoring security device is automatically displayed to the operator on the SMP operator interface

These and other important objects advantages and features of the invention will become clear as this disclosure proceeds.

The invention accordingly comprises the features of construction combination of elements and arrangement of parts that will be exemplified in the disclosure set forth hereinafter and the scope of the invention will be indicated in the claims.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

The present invention includes a security monitoring platform SMP adapted to automatically create and store associations between two or more electronic monitoring security devices and or alerts on the fly as alerts occur. An alert is any action or occurrence that is identifiable by a security system not just threats or alarms. For example access control systems monitor and control nearly every aspect of a door. Therefore a non threatening alert could include inter alia a valid card swipe while a threatening alert could include inter alia a forceful entry. Non threatening alerts are monitored because an operator may want to keep a record of non threatening activities such as visual records confirming the identity of persons executing a valid card swipe.

The SMP is a system adapted to monitor and preferably control all of the security systems in use. For example if a building has an access control system system using swipe cards for door locks made by one manufacturer and a camera system made by a second manufacturer the SMP integrates both of the systems and enables an operator to utilize the cameras and access control system as a single system. This is usually not possible without the SMP because security systems that originate from different manufactures are typically incapable of communicating with one another.

Each security system is self contained and includes a system specific application programming interface API . The API for each security system is unique to that security system but each API provides the necessary communicability to enable a user to control and utilize the security system. For example an API can provide 1 a connection to web services inside the security system allowing a user to execute commands to query and control the security system s electronic monitoring security devices 2 a connection to the data store of the security system and or 3 a proprietary connection through a software development kit SDK with functions allowing a user to query and control the security system s electronic monitoring security devices.

The SMP automatically encapsulates each security system s API to provide the SMP operator with a uniform format for operating each security system. The encapsulation of each security system s API allows the SMP operator to control the security system s electronic monitoring security devices and perform functions such as 

Furthermore the encapsulation of the each security system s API enables the SMP operator to monitor each security system simultaneously. Once the SMP establishes a digital connection between the security system and the SMP the connection details are stored on the SMP. The SMP also records the operational information for each electronic monitoring security device in each security system enabling the SMP to identify and distinguish each electronic monitoring security device from another.

An electronic monitoring security device may be capable of generating several types of alerts. The operational information retrieved from the security systems includes the possible alerts for each electronic monitoring security device. For example an access control system can generate inter alia access denied or door forced an alarm system can generate inter alia zone activated and a video management system can generate inter alia motion detection or person seen. 

When an alert occurs the security system receives information identifying the electronic monitoring device that raised the alert. For example the information received by the security system may include the door number zone number or camera number. The SMP digitizes this information and reformats it to correspond to the operational information previously captured. As a result the SMP is capable of identifying the specific electronic monitoring security device that raised the alert. In an embodiment the SMP may identify a specific alert from an electronic monitoring security device rather than just the electronic monitoring security device.

Referring now to the exemplary illustration in SMP includes data store storing the operational information and the encapsulated APIs associated with each alarm source and each camera . SMP also includes association module and SMP operator interface to enable operator to interact and control the SMP and security systems. When an alert arises SMP operator interface notifies operator of the alert in alert list .

Association module monitors a user s selection of an alert from alert list . When an alert is chosen for processing for example in the association module initiates the association protocol. In accordance with the association protocol the association module identifies the chosen alert and accesses SMP data store to determine whether any cameras and are associated with the chosen alert . In addition the association module monitors operator s selection from camera list . If operator selects a camera from camera list such as in the present example association module automatically stores an association between alert and camera in data store . When the same alert is selected for processing at a later date or time SMP automatically displays camera to operator on SMP operator interface .

While the exemplary illustration in is limited to alarm sources and cameras an embodiment of the present invention is operational with any electronic monitoring security device. In addition an embodiment may display to the user an alert list having both alerts and electronic monitoring security devices. For example at a base level the association could exist between an alert producing device and one or more other electronic monitoring security devices such that anytime the alert producing device produces an alert the associated electronic monitoring security devices are automatically loaded for the operator. At a more advanced level the associations could be created between specific alerts from an electronic monitoring security device and any other electronic monitoring security devices. In turn the present invention may create associations between two or more electronic monitoring security devices and also between a specific alert and one or more electronic monitoring security devices.

In an embodiment SMP classifies the electronic monitoring security devices into a plurality of specific categories of electronic monitoring security devices and displays a list for each category of electronic monitoring security devices on SMP interface . In such an embodiment associations may be created between the selected alert and an electronic monitoring security device from each category of electronic monitoring security devices. Moreover the SMP operator interface may display each previously associated electronic monitoring device simultaneously when an alert occurs.

Referring now to an embodiment of the association protocol is generally referred to as reference numeral . Association protocol is initiated at step and the association module identifies an alert or electronic monitoring security device hereinafter referred to collectively as the selected alert selected for processing at step . At step the association module accesses the SMP data store to determine whether any electronic monitoring security devices are associated with the selected alert. Any electronic monitoring security devices that are found to be associated with the selected alert are automatically displayed to the operator on the SMP operator interface at step .

After the associated electronic monitoring security devices are displayed to the operator or if no electronic monitoring security devices are associated with the selected alert the SMP operator is presented with a list of available electronic monitoring security devices i.e. list in at step . In an embodiment the electronic monitoring security devices are classified into categories with a list for each category being displayed at step . Furthermore an embodiment may remove any electronic monitoring security devices currently associated with the selected alert from the displayed lists.

At step the association module monitors the SMP operator s actions to determine whether the SMP operator selects any electronic monitoring security devices from the list of available electronic monitoring security devices displayed on SMP interface. At step the association module automatically creates an association between the chosen alert and last selected electronic monitoring security device accessed in response to the operator completing or ending the processing of the chosen alert. The completion or end of the processing of an alert can be any action taken by the operator that stops the processing of the current alert. For example an action considered to stop the current processing hereinafter referred to as an end processing action includes but is not limited to closing the alert removing the alert from the alert list removing the alert from the SMP interface and opening a different alert for viewing on the SMP interface.

In an embodiment including several categories of electronic monitoring security devices the association module stores the last selected electronic monitoring security device for each category of electronic monitoring security devices. In an embodiment the association module may store associations in response to each selection from an electronic monitoring security device list rather than waiting for an end processing action.

If the electronic monitoring security devices are not categorized by types of electronic monitoring security devices the association module may delete any previous existing association.

In an embodiment the SMP automatically presents the operator with an alert rather than waiting for an operator to select an alert from the alert list. In this particular embodiment the association protocol is initiated when an alert is presented to the operator or when an alert is displayed on the SMP operator interface.

In an embodiment the SMP may withhold the display of an electronic monitoring security device list when the association protocol determines that the current alert is already associated with an electronic monitoring security device. In an embodiment having categories of electronic monitoring security devices the SMP may withhold the display of a categorized electronic monitoring security device list when the association protocol determines that the current alert is already associated with an electronic monitoring security device that is stored in that categorized electronic monitoring security device list.

In a certain embodiment the operator may select and simultaneously view multiple electronic monitoring security devices for a single alert and the association module will create multiple associations.

In an embodiment the association module identifies each association based on the type of electronic monitoring security device and automatically stores the associations for each type of electronic monitoring security device.

In an embodiment the association module automatically creates cross associations between each type of electronic monitoring security device chosen by the SMP operator when addressing an alert. As a result an alert arising from any of the cross associated electronic monitoring security devices will automatically display the other electronic monitoring security devices that are cross associated with the electronic monitoring security device that produced the alert.

The present invention may be embodied on various computing platforms that perform actions responsive to software based instructions and most particularly on touchscreen portable devices. The following provides an antecedent basis for the information technology that may be utilized to enable the invention.

The computer readable medium described in the claims below may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any non transitory tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable radio frequency etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java C C Visual Basic or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

It should be noted that when referenced an end user is an operator of the software as opposed to a developer or author who modifies the underlying source code of the software. For security purposes authentication means identifying the particular user while authorization defines what procedures and functions that user is permitted to execute.

Application Programming Interface is a software intermediary enabling application programs to interact with each other and share data.

Electronic Monitoring Security Device is any monitoring device operating as part of a security system including but not limited to alarm source video source output or audio source.

Encapsulate is an action to alter a particular computer code to operate in conjunction with another system or program.

Operational Information is descriptive information of the electronic monitoring security device such as the name of the electronic monitoring security device and its connection information with respect to the security system.

Security Monitoring Platform is a system in communication with one or more security systems designed to allow an operator to monitor and sometimes control the security system and its electronic monitoring security devices.

The advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained. Since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention that as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

