---

title: Identifying missing search phrases
abstract: In various embodiments, approaches for identifying missing search phrases are described. Search terms are behaviorally associated with an item in the electronic repository. If a search of the electronic repository fails to surface the item, the at least one search term can be identified as a missing search phrase for the item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298781&OS=09298781&RS=09298781
owner: A9.com, Inc.
number: 09298781
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150127
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 914 221 entitled Identifying Missing Search Phrases filed Jun. 10 2013 which is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 560 983 entitled Identifying Missing Search Phrases filed Sep. 16 2009 each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Search engines can be employed in various settings including in a general purpose setting or an electronic commerce system. Various items in an electronic repository can be surfaced by a search engine. However some search terms or phrases may be attempted by users which do not locate or surface an item they are seeking. Additionally some search terms or phrases may fail to cause an item that a user is seeking to rank appropriately high enough in a ranked list of search results.

The various embodiments described herein relate to identifying search terms or search phrases that are employed by users to locate one or more items in an electronic repository. Users of an electronic repository whether in the context of an electronic commerce system a general purpose search engine or other system may attempt to use search terms or search phrases to locate or surface an item in the electronic repository. However search terms submitted by a user to a search engine electronic commerce application or other system may fail to locate items that the user seeks in an electronic repository. As a non limiting example a user may submit one or more search terms in an attempt to locate a product in an electronic commerce system. However the electronic commerce system may be unable to locate the product desired by the user via a conventional search based upon the search terms e.g. a search that employs word matching of the search terms and text located in data fields associated with the product . As a result the electronic commerce system may fail to display the desired product to the user. Such a failure can manifest itself if the submitted search terms do not appear in product data that is associated with the product in the electronic repository.

For example product data that is associated with a product in an electronic repository can include keywords description meta data or other text that a search engine can index and or query against when a user initiates a search of the repository. As an example of a user submitted search that may fail to surface a product that a user is seeking in an electronic commerce system the user may search for the term electric when searching for a ceramic heater but the product data available in the electronic repository associated with one or more ceramic heaters the user is seeking may fail to include the word electric in the associated product data. Accordingly the user may be forced to attempt additional search terms or find the product through alternative avenues which may impair the user experience.

Additionally because search engines often rank search results that are returned to a user search terms submitted by a user may result in a ranked list of search results that has not appropriately ranked items according to the expectation of the user. As one non limiting example upon submission of search terms intended to locate one or more items in an electronic repository the search results may display the item sought by a user below or outside the initial search results which may cause a less than optimal user experience. Accordingly a user may be forced to attempt to submit additional search terms or browse through numerous search results before arriving at an item in the electronic repository that matches the intentions of the user when the user submitted the search terms.

Accordingly embodiments described herein can track a session corresponding to a user in order to identify search terms or search phrases that are potentially missing search terms keywords or search phrases that can be associated with one or more items in the electronic repository. In the case of an electronic commerce system the items in the electronic repository can correspond to products available for purchase in the electronic commerce system. Therefore embodiments described herein can in one example identify search terms submitted by a user and determine whether they could be associated with a product in the electronic commerce system by detecting whether a search engine or search application does not surface a particular item that the user eventually purchases within the same session. In other words search terms can be behaviorally associated with items in the electronic repository if the behavior of a user while interacting with a system e.g. a search engine electronic commerce system etc. illustrates an association between user submitted search terms and an item.

In one example embodiments of the disclosure can determine whether search terms are behaviorally associated with an item in an electronic repository by tracking user behavior within a user session. In the above non limiting example user submitted search terms can be behaviorally associated with an item that the user eventually purchases within a session. Such a behavioral association can be detected if a search of the electronic repository using the user submitted search terms does not directly surface the item that the user eventually purchases. Alternatively user submitted search terms can be behaviorally associated with the item that a user eventually purchases if a search of the electronic repository using the user submitted search terms ranks the item in a list of search results lower than a predefined threshold. Embodiments of the disclosure can associate other user behavior with such a behavioral association including but not limited to a user viewing an item adding an item to a shopping cart or other user behavior.

Accordingly if search terms submitted by a user are behaviorally associated with an item in the electronic repository embodiments described herein can calculate a weight value representing a degree of association between the search term and an item in the electronic repository. Such a weight value and behavioral association can be calculated according to systems and methods disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 276 079 entitled Detection of Behavior Based Associations Between Search Strings and Terms filed Feb. 13 2006 hereinafter Vadon which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Weight values according to embodiments of the disclosure can be calculated on an aggregate basis taking into account user sessions of multiple users of a system. Accordingly weight values calculated on an aggregate basis can yield more accurate associations between search terms and items in an electronic repository as such calculations take into account the behaviors of a larger number of users.

If a calculated weight value representing a degree of association between at least one search term and an item in an electronic repository exceeds a threshold the user submitted search term s can be identified by embodiments of the disclosure as potentially missing search phrases for the item for which a behavioral association exists. In other words if a user submitted search term fails to directly surface an item or fails to highly rank an item consistent with the expectations of a user the search term can be identified as potentially missing keywords for the item. A threshold can be chosen to tune the sensitivity of the detection of potential missing keywords. Accordingly a threshold can be raised to a higher calculated weight value e.g. representing a greater degree of association such that only associations between items and search terms that are closely related in a behavioral sense are identified as potential missing keywords. Alternatively the threshold can be lowered to a lower calculated weight value e.g. representing a lesser degree of association so that more potential missing keywords are identified.

Accordingly as potential missing keywords can be identified based upon a degree of behavioral association between search terms and items in an electronic repository embodiments described herein can then initiate remedial measures that specify actions that can be taken in response to detection of potential missing keywords. As one non limiting example in the case of an electronic commerce system the potential missing search phrase s identified by embodiments of the disclosure can be inserted and or appended into product data associated with products in the electronic repository. Additionally the potential missing search phrase s can also be incorporated into product data of similar products or other products within the same product category. Alternatively potential missing search phrase s identified by embodiments of the disclosure can be transmitted to merchants selling items in an electronic commerce system so that a merchant can be made aware of potential missing search phrase s and view data regarding user behavior associated with the use of such phrases. In response a merchant can update product data associated with a product listing in the electronic repository or take other remedial measures as deemed necessary.

Accordingly with reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments of the disclosure. The networked environment includes a computing device implementing an electronic commerce system. While the depicted example shows an embodiment of the disclosure in the context of an electronic commerce system it should be appreciated that alternative embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented in the context of a general search engine or other types of applications in which an electronic repository that a user may search is employed. The computing device is in data communication with one or more customer clients by way of a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device may comprise for example a workstation a desktop computer a server computer or like system. The computing device may represent multiple computing devices servers etc. that are arranged for example in one or more banks clusters or other arrangements. The computing device may be located in a single installation or may be dispersed among many different geographical locations. As a non limiting example data stores depicted within the computing device may be implemented in a first installation while one or more of the remaining logical components of the computing device may be implemented in a second installation with the two installations in data communication with one another. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. However in one embodiment the computing device can represent a plurality of computing devices arranged as described above.

The computing device is configured to execute various applications such as for example a search application an electronic commerce application and other applications. The search application is executed to collect and process information relating to user submitted queries regarding related products product categories and or other data accessible to the computing device . In other words the search application facilitates location of items on behalf of a user submitting search terms and or search phrases to the computing device . To this end the electronic commerce application may include network page server functionality such as a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP server. Alternatively the electronic commerce application may be in data communication with one or more distinct server or other applications. In some embodiments the functionality of the search application may be included in the electronic commerce application .

Also the computing device includes an electronic repository which may comprise data and applications operable to provide access to the data stored therein. The electronic repository may be used to store product data and other data related to products in an electronic commerce system. Product data comprises data regarding items offered for sale by one or more merchants. Product data may include many fields of data regarding each item such as but not limited to the following product category title keywords description price weight shipping methods related images reviews similar items meta data hidden text a list of merchants selling the item stock number other associated categories page view history etc. The electronic repository can also include other data related to products as can be appreciated but are not necessary to discuss herein for an understanding of the various embodiments of the disclosure.

Accordingly the search application can receive search terms submitted by a user who is engaging in online shopping in the electronic commerce system. A user may submit search terms to the search application in order to locate items and or products in the electronic repository . The search application can locate items corresponding to products in the electronic repository on behalf of the user. As described herein the search application can also identify potential missing search phrases that have a behavioral association with items or products in the electronic repository .

The session data store can store user session data which contains tracking information about user sessions. As a non limiting example the user session data can include information about user clicks e.g. following a hyperlink generated by the electronic commerce application user submitted search terms items a user has viewed purchased added to a shopping cart and other data regarding the activity of a user. The user session data can be indexed or organized for a user session so that substantially all activity a user engages in during a visit to the electronic commerce system can be logged for analysis consistent with embodiments of the disclosure. As a non limiting example a user may be seeking to purchase a ceramic heater so the user may submit search terms to the search application in an effort to cause the search application to locate a desired product. Accordingly user session data can store the search terms submitted by the user and any hyperlinks the user follows during the session.

The customer clients may comprise for example a computer system such as a desktop laptop or other computer system. The customer clients may also comprise personal digital assistants cellular telephones set top boxes or other systems with like capability. Further the customer clients may also comprise any device that is network capable that may communicate with the computing device over the network to perform various functions. Such customer clients may comprise for example processor based devices having processor circuits comprising a processor and a memory.

The customer clients may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser and or other applications. The browser may be executed in a customer client for example to access and render search result pages network pages such as web pages or other network content served up by the computing device and or other servers. In other embodiments the functionality performed by the customer client and the computing device may be performed in a single computer system such as for example a standalone kiosk.

The merchant clients may comprise for example a computer system such as a desktop laptop or other computer system. The merchant clients like the customer clients may also comprise personal digital assistants cellular telephones set top boxes or other systems with like capability. Further the merchant clients may also comprise any device that is network capable that may communicate with the computing device over the network to perform various functions. Such merchant clients may comprise for example processor based devices having processor circuits comprising a processor and a memory.

The merchant clients may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser and or other applications. The merchant clients may also be configured to receive data from the computing device via electronic mail a special purpose application programming interface API client configured to interact with an API web service API or other feed service provided by the computing device . The merchant clients can be configured to receive data alerts notifications etc. in a variety of formats from a variety of applications as can be appreciated.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin the search application may facilitate locating items on behalf of users in the electronic repository . As noted above a user can submit search terms to the search application via the electronic commerce application . Accordingly the search application can attempt to locate items corresponding to products in the electronic repository . The search application can perform a conventional search e.g. word matching for items in the electronic repository by attempting to locate user submitted search terms in product data that is associated with products available in an electronic commerce system.

As noted above if a search employing the user submitted search terms conducted by search application fails to directly surface an item the user is seeking or fails to return the item sought by a user appropriately ranked appropriately high in a list of search results the search application can determine whether a behavioral association exists between the search terms and an item in the electronic repository by analyzing user session data from the session data store .

As one non limiting example the search application can determine whether user behavior corresponding to one or more users in the session data store results in a behavioral association. If for example one or more users submit initial search terms that do not directly surface an item in the electronic repository but the one or more users submit subsequent search terms that do directly surface an item corresponding to a product the search application can determine that a behavioral association exists between the item and the initial search terms.

Accordingly in some embodiments the search application can calculate a weight value between the initial search terms and the item. If the calculated weight value exceeds a predefined threshold the search application can identify the association between the initial search terms and the item as a potential missing search phrase. As noted in Vadon the weight value can vary based upon the activities undertaken by a user in relation to the item in the electronic repository . For example if a user eventually purchases an item for which the search terms submitted by the user did not directly surface the item a stronger behavioral association may be assumed and the calculated weight value increased. Accordingly the search application can be configured with a weight value threshold so that the search application can only identify potential missing search phrases in circumstances where a weight value corresponding to a behavioral association exceeds a predefined threshold.

The search application upon detection of a potential missing search phrase can enact remedial measures to facilitate improving the user experience. As one non limiting example the search application can append the potential missing search phrases it detects onto product data associated with an item. The search application can append the potential missing search phrases onto various data fields in the product data e.g. description hidden text meta data etc. so that the search application in the future will directly surface the item in response to a search conducted with the potential missing search phrases.

As an additional non limiting example the potential missing search phrase can include a common misspelling of a word associated with an item in the electronic repository . Additionally in the context of an electronic commerce system certain products that can be associated with items may employ coined terms and or intentional misspellings in the product name description or other fields. Accordingly a correctly spelled version of a word or phrase may fail to directly surface an item associated with a product a user is seeking. Accordingly embodiments described herein can detect the above scenarios and enact remedial measures so that the search application can surface a product that a user may be seeking even if a word matching based search fails to surface the product.

The search application can also modify its searching algorithms search indexes or take other search optimization techniques that should be appreciated in order to cause potential missing search phrases to surface items via the search application for behavioral associations having a calculated weight value exceeding a threshold.

As an alternative non limiting example the search application can transmit optimization data that includes information regarding the identified potential missing search phrase to a merchant client . The optimization data can include the missing search phrase and the item in the electronic repository with which a behavioral association has been identified which can allow a merchant to optimize items in the electronic repository to be more responsive to user submitted search terms. In some embodiments the search application can require merchant intervention in order to enact remedial measures in response to a potential missing search phrase. The transmission of optimization data to a merchant client and in some embodiments the requirement of merchant intervention in order to enact remedial measures can prevent remedial measures that cause the search application to perform contrary to the desires of a merchant. As noted above the optimization data can be transmitted to a merchant via a browser electronic mail an API client or other alerts feed service etc. as can be appreciated.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of the search application according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Alternatively the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting steps of an example method implemented in the computing device s to identify a potential missing search phrase. The search application acts upon user submitted search terms and analyzes an electronic repository and user session data as described above in order to identify potential missing search phrases.

Beginning with box the search application identifies at least one search term which can take the form of a word a coined term or any assemblage of characters for which a search of an electronic repository can be conducted. In one embodiment a search term can comprise terms associated with a product in an electronic commerce system. The search application can determine whether the search terms appear in data fields associated with an item in the electronic repository . In the case of an electronic commerce system as described in reference to the search application can determine whether the search terms appear in product data associated with a product in the electronic commerce system.

In box the search application determines whether a behavioral association exists between the user submitted search terms and the item sought by a user. As noted above as well as in Vadon a behavioral association can be detected by analyzing user session data of user sessions. Accordingly if the search application detects that one or more search terms are not behaviorally associated with an item the search application can terminate its iteration because if no behavioral association exists the search application will not have to calculate a weight value representing the degree of behavioral association or enact remedial measures. If the search application detects a behavioral association in box the search application proceeds to box where a weight value is calculated.

As noted above a weight value representing a degree of association between one or more user submitted search terms and an item in the electronic repository can be calculated by the search application . According to embodiments described herein as well as in Vadon a calculated weight value can be based on user session data that reveals the activity of a user in relation to the item in the electronic repository . For example if a user purchases a product for which a behavioral association exists this activity can be weighted heavily as a purchase decision can be deemed to represent a high degree of behavioral association. Likewise if a user views an item and adds the item to a shopping cart but does not purchase the item this activity can be weighted less than a purchase decision. Additionally if a user simply views an item but fails to either add the item to a shopping cart or purchase the item this activity can be weighted to an even lesser degree when calculating a weight value.

Following box the search application can proceed to box where it determines whether the calculated weight value exceeds a threshold. The threshold may be predefined when configuring the search application and may be used to tune the sensitivity of the detection of potential missing search phrases by the search application . If the calculated weight value does not exceed the weight value threshold the search application can terminate and potential missing search phrases are not identified if the weight value does not exceed the threshold. If the calculated weight value exceeds the threshold the search application can proceed to box where it determines whether the search phrases directly surface an item in the electronic repository .

In other words the search application can determine whether the search terms are already associated with the item in the electronic repository . In one non limiting example the search application can perform a word matching search as well as determine whether an item sought by a user appears appropriately ranked in a list of ranked search results. In one example the search application can determine whether the item sought by a user is ranked lower than a predefined threshold in a list of ranked search results. By analyzing user session data the search application can determine from the session activity of a user whether search results returned by the search application to the user meet with the expectations of a user. If as in one non limiting example a user attempts another search with different search terms follows multiple hyperlinks in a list of search results or views multiple pages of search results before arriving on an item the search application can identify this behavior as indicative of a failure to directly surface an item sought by the user.

If the search application directly surfaces the item the user is seeking in box then the search application can terminate its present iteration. If the search application fails to directly surface the item or appropriately rank an item in a ranked list of search results then the search application can proceed to box where it is determined that a potential missing search phrase exists for an item for which a behavioral association was identified.

As noted above the search application upon identification of potential missing search phrases for items in an electronic repository can enact various remedial measures according to embodiments of the disclosure. The search application can modify in the case of an electronic commerce system product data associated with an item in the electronic repository to include the missing search phrases. Additionally the search application can also notify a merchant and or merchant client of potential missing search phrases by transmitting optimization data to the merchant. The merchant clients can be configured to receive data alerts notifications etc. in a variety of formats from a variety of applications as can be appreciated. As noted above merchant clients may also be configured to receive data from the computing device via electronic mail a special purpose API client configured to interact with an application programming interface API web service API or other feed service provided by the computing device . The search application can also modify search algorithms employed by the search application or merely log the potential missing search phrases in a log or other location.

Referring next to shown is an example of one embodiment of the one or more computing devices according to various embodiments. The computing device may include a processor circuit having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying control address bus as can be appreciated. To this end each computing device may comprise for example a computer system or other system with like capability. Such computer systems may be configured to optimally perform as servers as can be appreciated.

Various components may be stored in the memory and are executable by the processor including for example an operating system the electronic commerce application and the search application . In addition other applications may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor as can be appreciated. The user session data and product data may be stored in a session data store and electronic repository that are accessible by the processor circuit of the computing device so as to access the various data stored therein. Alternatively the session data store and electronic repository may be stored in locations other than within the computing device .

The operating system the electronic commerce application and the search application are described as being stored in the memory and executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor or source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a of random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory read only memory a hard drive compact disk CD floppy disk or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive compact discs accessed via a compact disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

In addition the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any one of the memories or between any two of the memories etc.

The functionality of the search application as depicted by the example flowchart of may be implemented for example in an object oriented design or in some other programming architecture. Assuming the functionality is implemented in an object oriented design each block represents functionality that may be implemented in one or more methods that are encapsulated in one or more objects. The search application may be implemented using any one of a number of programming languages such as for example C C JAVA or other programming languages.

With reference to although the search application is described as being embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware the same can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of the search application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flow chart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present invention.

Also where the search application comprises software or code it can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present invention a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the search application or electronic commerce application for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives or compact discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

