---

title: Logic function generation from single microplasma transistor devices and arrays of devices
abstract: Logic devices are provided in multiple sub-collector and sub-emitter microplasma devices formed in thin and flexible, or inflexible, semiconductor materials. Logic operations are provided with one of a plurality of microplasmas forming sub-collectors with a common emitter, or a common collector plasma with a plurality of sub-emitter regions in a solid state semi-conductor pn-junction, and generating a logic output from an electrode, based upon electrode inputs to two other electrodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330877&OS=09330877&RS=09330877
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09330877
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150601
---
This application is a divisional of prior application Ser. No. 14 452 032 filed Aug. 5 2014 and now U.S. Pat. No. 9 263 558 issued Feb. 16 2016 which application was continuation in part of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from prior application Ser. No. 13 186 401 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 816 435 issued on Aug. 26 2014 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 365 429 which was filed Jul. 19 2010.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. FA 9550 07 1 0003 and FA 9550 10 1 0456 awarded by the United States Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Fields of the invention include microplasma and macroplasma generation and logic devices. Applications of the invention include semiconductor devices optoelectronics photonics microelectronics and plasma electronics.

Modern electronics rely on solid state materials and semiconductors in particular. However plasma based electronic devices assumed a significant role in communications and display systems in the first half of the 20century. Vacuum tubes were previously used to amplify and switch signals but have been largely replaced by solid state devices. Vacuum tubes continue however to be employed in specialized applications such as in the final amplifier of high power radio transmitters.

Macroplasma devices have also been used in older communications and display systems. One example is the plasma electron tube such as the OA OB OC and OD series of rare gas plasma voltage regulators that was widely incorporated into audio equipment as well as the power supplies of RF transmitters and receivers. Other examples include plasma switches and the 866A and 872 mercury plasma high voltage rectifiers that found application in early RF transmitters. Another example is the Nixie tube a neon plasma based device that was an essential component of alphanumeric displays for a number of decades in the twentieth century.

Subsequent applications of plasmas to electronics or displays have often required imposing external voltages or magnetic fields so as to influence the electromagnetic field distribution in the plasma. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 765 073 discloses a field controlled plasma discharge display element serving as a light source element in plasma discharge electrostatic printers. The display element includes a pair of discharge electrodes and a third electrode positioned external and proximate to the discharge electrodes for the purpose of generating a control electric field. This control electric field is able to vary the intensity of the plasma discharge and its spatial distribution by distorting the shape of the discharge electric field. In this and other similar devices a degree of control over the properties of a plasma is exerted by an auxiliary device or structure where auxiliary indicates that the added device or structure is not required for sustenance of the plasma. Soclof U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 399 summarizes typical prior devices that inject electrons into vacuum with a reverse biased pn junction and subsequently accelerate and collect the electrons with an anode.

Most commercially available displays are rigid and somewhat fragile. Despite these limitations large displays such as flat panel TVs having screen sizes as large as 60 have proven to be extremely successful. It is expected and would be desirable for the next generation of displays to be required to be lightweight e.g. 1 k per square foot and such displays are certainly not flexible.

In U.S. Pat. No. 7 235 860 Ohki describes a solid state transistor in which the emitter is sub divided into separate sub emitters. However the purpose of subdividing the emitter is only to increase emitter current while maintaining h. The emitters are electronically isolated from each other by an isolation region. Varying their surface area i.e. the area exposed to the base serves to control the maximum emitter current.

Preferred methods of the invention provide logic functions with a single microplasma transistor device. A microplasma is generated within a microcavity in proximity to a solid state semiconductor pn junction. Logic operations are provided with one of a plurality of microplasmas forming sub collectors with a common emitter or a common collector plasma with a plurality of sub emitter regions in a solid state semiconductor pn junction and generating a logic output from an electrode based upon electrode inputs to two other electrodes.

Preferred embodiments make use of a hybrid plasma semiconductor device. The device has a thin and flexible semiconductor base layer. An emitter region is diffused into the base layer forming a pn junction. An insulator layer is upon one side of the base layer and emitter region. Base and emitter electrodes are isolated from each other by the insulator layer and electrically contact the base layer and emitter region through the insulator layer. A thin and flexible collector layer is situated on an opposite side of the base layer. A microcavity is formed in the collector layer and is aligned with the emitter region. Collector electrodes are arranged to sustain a microplasma within the microcavity upon the application of a voltage of the proper magnitude to the collector electrodes. A depth of the emitter region and a thickness of the base layer are set to define a predetermined thin portion of the base layer as a base region between the emitter region and the microcavity. Microplasma generated in the microcavity serves as a collector.

A preferred embodiment array of flexible hybrid plasma transistors of the invention is an npn plasma bipolar junction transistor PBJT fabricated between two flexible sheets that is able to provide logic functions in the array. One or both of the flexible sheets is transparent. The overall array structure is planar and the planarized structure is sealed between the two flexible sheets. Visible or ultraviolet light is emitted during operation by plasma collectors in the array. In preferred embodiments individual PBJTs in the array serve as sub pixels of a full color display. Subdividing the plasma collector of a PBJT provides a logic device and or devices in which multiple visible or ultraviolet wavelengths can be emitted from the collector plasmas. Segmenting the emitter also enables one PBJT to control others that are coupled through a common collector plasma.

Additional preferred embodiment logic devices of the invention are formed in non flexible materials with sub divided collectors or subdivided collectors. Preferred materials for non flexible devices include semiconductor materials or ceramic materials. The materials can be thicker than in the flexible devices. The subdivided plasma collector or emitter provides the same function as in the flexible devices.

Preferred methods of the invention provide logic functions with a single microplasma transistor device. A microplasma is generated within a microcavity in proximity to a solid state semiconductor pn junction. Logic operations are provided with one of a plurality of microplasmas forming sub collectors with a common emitter or a common collector plasma with a plurality of sub emitter regions in a solid state semiconductor pn junction and generating a logic output from an electrode based upon electrode inputs to two other electrodes.

A preferred method for providing a logic function with a single microplasma transistor device includes generating one or a plurality of microplasmas within one or a plurality of microcavities in proximity to one or a plurality of solid state semiconductor pn junctions. Voltage waveforms are applied to affect selected ones of the one or a plurality of microplasmas or the one or plurality of semiconductor pn junctions to influence electrical characteristics of other ones of the plurality of microplasmas or the plurality of semiconductor pn junctions to thereby provide the logic function.

This invention makes use of and provides flexible hybrid plasma transistors and displays that can provide ultra large area displays and can be manufactured inexpensively. The substrate in the present invention is a flexible material such as plastic permitting a finished display able to conform to various irregular surfaces. Displays of the invention can be at least partially transparent. The hybrid plasma transistor devices of the invention have multiple sub emitters or multiple sub collectors sharing a common base region. These devices support logic operations or multiple ultraviolet or visible wavelength emissions from a single transistor device. Additional embodiment devices with multiple sub emitters or multiple sub collectors are non flexible and formed in semiconductors that are thicker and non flexible.

In preferred embodiment arrays and displays a plasma transistor such as a plasma bipolar junction transistor PBJT is produced using a flexible substrate. In exemplary embodiments the emitter and base of the transistor are together only 15 m in thickness i.e. less than one thousandth of an inch and very flexible. A preferred manufacture process is a lift off process that begins with silicon on insulator SOI wafers. Preferred fabrication processes are inexpensive and ideal for transferring the transistor emitter and base fabricated in a semiconductor e.g. Si to a plastic substrate or other flexible substrate.

A preferred embodiment array of flexible hybrid plasma transistors of the invention is an npn PBJT fabricated between two flexible sheets. One or both of the flexible sheets is transparent. The overall array structure is planar and the planarized structure is sealed between the two flexible sheets. Visible or ultraviolet light is emitted during operation by plasma collectors in the array. In preferred embodiments individual PBJTs in the array serve as sub pixels of a full color display.

The invention provides flexible combination semiconductor and plasma devices including transistors and phototransistors. Devices of the invention are referred to as hybrid plasma semiconductor devices in which a plasma preferably a microplasma cooperates with conventional solid state semiconductor device regions to influence or perform a semiconducting function such as that provided by a transistor. The plasma can perform or influence electronic or photonic semiconducting functions. The invention provides a family of hybrid plasma electronic photonic devices having properties believed to be previously unavailable. In flexible transistor devices of the invention a low temperature glow discharge is integral to the hybrid transistor. Exemplary preferred devices include hybrid BJT and MOSFET devices.

A preferred embodiment flexible hybrid plasma semiconductor device has at least one active solid state semiconductor region and a plasma generated in proximity to the active solid state semiconductor region s .

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic representations that will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art of the description that follows. Features can be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale. Artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention from the description of the preferred embodiments.

Artisans will also appreciate that various features shown in some of the figures can be used in devices shown in other figures. Some of the drawing figures are simplified for purposes of clarity of application. For example vias illustrated in a single figure can be used in other figures. Similarly windows covers electrodes and other features may be shown in selected ones of the figures but omitted in others to simplify the illustrations and emphasize certain features. Artisans will recognize those features that can be used in some or all of the devices.

Rather than sealing the window directly to the anode a standoff dielectric layer can also be deposited onto the anode layer and patterned so as to allow gas to move freely from one plasma collector cavity to another within an array of the PBJT devices of . Operation of the device of involves evacuation of the plasma collector cavity introducing the desired gas vapor or mixture thereof at the proper pressure and applying voltages of the proper magnitude to the emitter base and collector emitter junctions. Typically a DC or time varying voltage of approximately 0.1 to 10 V is applied to the base emitter junction whereas the collector emitter junction normally requires a voltage 100 V and is dependent upon the dimensions of the collector plasma the gas or vapor and its pressure.

Although not shown in the sidewalls of the plasma collector cavity as well as the interior surface of the window can be coated with a thin film of red green or blue phosphor for display applications. The thickness of the phosphor film on the cavity sidewalls will likely be different from that on the window in order to maximize the light exiting the collector cavity. Prior to depositing the phosphor it is desirable to deposit a dielectric film or a thin stack of films onto the cavity sidewalls in order to inhibit the diffusion of organic vapors from the flexible substrate which may be a polymer into the collector plasma.

Arrays of devices can readily be fabricated by microfabrication processes that are well known to the integrated circuit and MEMs communities. for example illustrate in detail the fabrication of a device in accordance with but based upon polycrystalline Si rather than a single crystal semiconductor as in . In a flexible non conducting substrate is provided. In a polysilicon emitter layer is formed on the substrate . The emitter layer is patterned in . In a base layer is deposited and patterned in . In dielectric is deposited. In anode metal is deposited in a pattern. In the dielectric is patterned to complete the device which can permit circuit interconnection and provide a microcavity opening that can support plasma generation.

Another embodiment of the invention is a laterally doped PBJT which is formed such that the entire device is contained within the device layer of a typical silicon on insulator SOI wafer and the typical npn stack progresses horizontally along the surface of the wafer. This device also lends itself readily to flexible applications. Formation of such a device is illustrated in .

In a silicon on insulator wafer including a handle wafer a silicon dioxide layer and a p type silicon layer is provided. Trenches are etched into the device layer to accommodate subsequent predeposition and diffusion steps in . In a thermal predeposition and drive are performed doping the silicon with an n type dopant in areas around the trenches . An oxidation in forms silicon dioxide layer over the entire top of the structure. Metal electrodes are deposited allowing electrical contact to each of the three active regions the emitter contact base contact and collector contact in . Subsequent steps can be conducted to form either on wafer or off wafer flexible devices.

An alternative method for fabricating lateral transistors in a flexible package is illustrated in the figures following . As shown in the entire assembly of with or without the uppermost layer of SiOshown in is bonded to a flexible metallized substrate and in the handle wafer and SiOare removed. illustrates a complete device after a cavity is etched between the p type base and the n type collector and a flexible cover is bonded to the device layer at the time the cover is installed a plasma is introduced into the cavity where plasma can be generated. Of importance for the flexible devices is the fact that thin membranes of silicon such as the device layer are in fact flexible granting flexibility to the entire finished device so long as the substrate and cover are sufficiently flexible as well. The on wafer devices allow the entire device to be fabricated on one side of a SOI wafer with fewer processing steps and greater robustness than previous designs. The addition of a through wafer via allows for rapid gas exchange in this and all of the illustrated embodiments should a particular application demand it simple gas circulation for cooling purposes is one example . This design due to its dimensions lends itself readily to operation at pressures approaching or exceeding atmospheric pressure. The increased capability for cooling would make this device suitable for high power switching where power dissipation has traditionally been problematic.

The flexible devices of allow the entire device to be fabricated onto a SOI wafer which can be removed from the handle layer and bonded to a flexible substrate resulting in a flexible finished product. The ability to switch light emitting plasmas on and off with relatively low voltages combined with the flexibility of these devices allows for the possibility of flexible displays.

An example process consistent with the on wafer design begins with an SOI wafer having a 15 m thick p Si layer a 2 m thick buried oxide film and a 375 m thick handle Si layer. A flexible support substrate can also be used to replace the handle layer and such a flexible layer can be a plastic such as PET Kapton polyimide or a similar flexible material.

To form the anode metal may be deposited onto a glass substrate and regions opened up in the metal via lithographic techniques to allow a window above the device for light transmission and optionally allow for the incorporation of an annular ballast resistor. After the metal is removed a thin film resistor is deposited. The anode piece is then aligned and placed on top of the mesa structure separated by a photosensitive polymer housing . This technique is easily transferrable to fabricating an array of mesa based PBJT devices by employing appropriate photomasks.

Another embodiment of the invention is a mesa structure PBJT based on an epitaxial III V wafer on which the base and emitter regions are grown and then attached to a flexible substrate. Metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD forms multiple layers of GaAs and or AlGaAs with composition and layer thickness that match device requirements. Each formed p n junction made of GaAs and or AlGaAs is separated by a sacrificial AlAs layer which is later selectively eliminated by etching in hydrofluoric acid thereby releasing a large collection of p n junctions with size being defined before releasing. The released p n junctions can be transferred and printed to a flexible substrate using a deterministic assembly procedure reported by others. See Meitl M. A. et al. Transfer printing by kinetic control of adhesion to an elastomeric stamp Nature Mater. 5 33 38 2006 Yoon J. et al. Ultrathin silicon solar microcells for semitransparent mechanically flexible and microconcentrator module design Nature Materials 7 907 915 2008 . A large array of devices can be easily formed in this way. The anode piece is later fabricated and aligned on top of the mesa structure in a fashion similar to that described earlier for the silicon mesa PBJT.

For the preferred embodiment silicon device a thin p type Si layer provides a base region that is defined by a thickness between a collector microcavity and the edge of an emitter region of n type Si that is formed by doping of the base layer . Collector electrodes are preferably fabricated of tungsten or other electrically conductive material that is resistant to sputtering and thermal damage. The electrodes can be formed through a cover not shown in . Respective base and emitter electrodes and are similarly formed through openings in a silicon dioxide insulator layer . Plasma formed in the collector cavity acts as a collector during operation of the PBJT. is not to scale and the relative thickness of a layer that defines the collector cavity is exaggerated. The layer can be very thin comparable in thickness to the base layer and is also preferably thin enough to be flexible. In a preferred embodiment the collector layer is formed from polycarbonate or another suitable polymer. These exemplary materials provide versatility regarding the cross sectional shape of the collector microcavity . The overall thickness of the entire device structure after sealing the microcavity with a layer not shown can be for example less than 2 mm.

With an example polymer collector layer a variety of cross sectional shapes for the microcavity can be formed by replica molding in the polymer substrate. Examples include parabolic square rectangular and circular cross sectional cavities. Specific and predetermined spatial distributions of the electric field strength can be obtained by selecting a specific cross sectional shape for the microcavity . The collector electrodes also preferably lie near the aperture of the collector microcavity . Electrode may be a single entity such as a ring lying at the edge of a cylindrical cavity or it may have two or more components. Application of a DC or time varying voltage between the electrodes and the base provides an electric field to sustain a collector plasma in the microcavity . For many PBJT applications the collector plasma need not be continuous. In such instances the voltage sustaining the collector plasma may be pulsed and electrode s may be coated with a dielectric that can be more robust.

The thickness of the p Si base layer between the n Si emitter and the collector cavity also plays an important role in determining device electrical performance. A typical range for this parameter is 1 50 m. As is increased the current must be supplied to the base increases because of carrier recombination in the base. However if the base region defined by is made too thin punchthrough might occur which will destroy the device. Therefore the base thickness will represent a tradeoff between punchthrough and the required base current.

With reference to processing of the PBJT begins with an SOI wafer onto which a p Si layer is deposited. An additional layer of SiOis formed as the layer in . The layer is opened in and the n Si emitter is diffused into the layer . The handle layer and lower SiOlayer are removed in and the opening in SiOlayer that was created for the emitter formation process is now closed by an additional SiOdeposition. The formation of electrodes base and emitter in openings produced in the oxide layer is shown if . The structure of can now be joined to a wide variety of collector microcavity layers such as the polymers discussed with respect to . Other options include plastics ceramics and thin semiconductor layers.

A plastic layer is bonded to the layer prior to the formation of the microcavities and . After bonding the thin plastic film onto the p Si semiconductor base layer cavities are formed through the plastic sheet layer and into the semiconductor base layer . The depth of penetration of the microcavities and into the semiconductor is determined by the desired thickness of the base region of the PBJT between the microcavities and the emitter . This thickness can be different for the separate microcavities and or if similar electrical behavior is desired from the three the thickness can be the same for all. As discussed earlier phosphor can be coated onto the walls of the microcavities and and the cavities filled with a plasma medium that when a microplasma is formed within the cavities will emit ultraviolet light and thereby produce visible fluorescence from the phosphor. A transparent cover seals the device which is spaced apart by spacer sealant material . The cover can be formed from various materials such as plastic glass quartz sapphire a thin crystal or other materials that are preferably transparent. Collector electrodes can also include a thin phosphor coating and can be formed for example opposite the cavities on the inner surface of the cover . The electrodes can alternatively be arranged as in . The base layer can be thin and flexible as in preferred embodiment devices discussed above. However the sub collector device also can be formed in thicker semiconductor layers.

An interesting aspect of the embodiments is the ability to support logic operations in what is essentially a single device and would require multiple devices in standard semiconductor circuits. This provides the basis for new displays or information processing devices that take full advantage of the interaction of the semiconductor junction with a plasma. Using as an example the embodiment of turning on one of the sub emitters 1 2 or 3 can serve to bias the remaining sub emitters. That is if one of the sub emitters is first turned on then the threshold in forward bias for igniting plasma in the vicinity of another sub emitter or enhancing the plasma already created by another sub emitter is reduced considerably. This permits unique operations for display applications but also provides the ability to realize plasma logic gates such as a plasma AND gate. Artisans will also appreciate that the plasma can tolerate significant amounts of power and can operate at power levels that would destroy solid state logic gates. This provides the opportunity to directly integrate plasma logic in higher power applications without additional circuitry to protect the logic gates.

Unlike Ohki U.S. Pat. No. 7 235 860 in the present invention charge carriers electrons injected into the collector plasma by emitter base junction A for example can quickly diffuse through the collector plasma and strongly influence the electrical characteristics of emitter base junctions B and C working in conjunction with the collector plasma in microcavity . Specifically applying a forward bias to the emitter base junction A of with the collector plasma present will reduce the turn on voltage but also increase the saturated collector currents associated with the emitter base B and emitter base junctions C.

The sharing of a single collector plasma by multiple emitter base junctions in a PBJT has the effect of coupling the individual emitter base junctions. This behavior can be exploited in several ways one of which is to realize logic devices. Consider for example two of the three sub emitters having an annular shape and together encompassing a third emitter having a circular cross section. With this geometry electron injection into the collector plasma by either or both of the annular emitter base junctions will profoundly influence the operating characteristics. Therefore if the forward bias for the third circular emitter base junction is set slightly below turn on then operating the annular emitter base junctions under forward bias will increase the collector conductivity and induce the third emitter base junction to turn on as well. Hence the three emitter structure of employing the emitter geometry of can function as an AND gate. A wide variety of sub emitter geometries other than that of can be used.

Another function that is served by the sub emitter PBJT configuration of is that one emitter base junction can modulate the collector current produced by another. Specifically if the sub emitter base junctions of are driven by voltage waveforms of differing frequencies and the waveforms need not be sinusoidal then the oscillating collector current produced by for example the emitter base junction A can be modulated by that generated by the emitter base junction B and emitter base junctions C. It is important to recognize that mixing of these frequencies will occur such that sum and difference frequencies will be produced in the collector current. If the emitter base A emitter base B and emitter base junctions C are driven at frequencies f f and f respectively the collector current will contain components at frequencies f f f f and so on.

Arrays of devices as illustrated in are for example well suited for the fabrication of high resolution full color displays. The transistors are also amenable to gas phase sensors requiring the modulation of a plasma into which an impurity has been introduced. Fluorescence diagnostics of such plasmas will enable the detection of toxic or environmentally unfriendly gases or vapors in air samples for example. Excimer laser ablation and patterning techniques can also be used to fabricate the devices on flexible low cost substrates having surface areas of at least 1 m.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

