---

title: Compositions and methods for treating ischemia
abstract: The presently-disclosed subject matter provides methods for preventing ischemia in a cell, treating ischemia in a subject, and preventing an infarction in a subject that utilize α5β1 integrin inhibitor. In some instances, α5β1 integrin inhibitor is administered to a subject prior to, during, or after the onset of ischemia to treat the ischemia and/or prevent infarction. In some instances the present methods prevent the occurrence of an infarction. In some instances the present methods restores perfusion to organs and tissues.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09370547&OS=09370547&RS=09370547
owner: University of Kentucky Research Foundation
number: 09370547
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150211
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 938 621 filed Feb. 11 2014 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. 2R 1NS065842 08 the awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to the treatment of ischemia including cerebral ischemia and stroke. In particular embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter relate to methods for preventing and or treating ischemia and potential infarction that utilize an 5 1 integrin inhibitor.

Tissues deprived of blood and oxygen undergo ischemic necrosis or infarction with possible irreversible organ damage. Cerebral ischemia results from decreased blood and oxygen flow implicating one or more of the blood vessels of the brain. In cerebral ischemia the individual suffers a stroke with sudden development of a focal neurologic deficit and in most cases some degree of brain damage. The decreased blood flow may be due to for example an occlusion such as a thrombus or embolus vessel rupture sudden fall in blood pressure change in the vessel lumen diameter due to atherosclerosis trauma aneurysm developmental malformation altered permeability of the vessel wall or increased viscosity or other quality of the blood. Decreased blood flow may also be due to failure of the systemic circulation and severe prolonged hypotension. Ischemic necrosis of the spinal cord may result in sensory or motor symptoms or both that can be referred to cervical thoracic or lumbar levels of the spine.

Current treatments for ischemia encompass behavioral changes drug therapy and or surgical intervention. Drugs are frequently preferred before resorting to invasive procedures and to provide more immediate relief than long term behavioral changes. However current drugs are limited in their effectiveness in preventing infarction.

Similarly stroke is the fourth leading cause of death in the U.S. and approximately 87 of stroke patients are ischemic resulting from a lack of blood flow to a part of the brain. Current standard of care for ischemic stroke is rapid reopening of the occluded brain blood vessel with tissue plasminogen activator t PA . Unfortunately t PA is limited to a brief window of 4.5 hours within symptom onset contributing along with other factors to the exclusion of many patients. Furthermore results from large t PA trials have been mixed showing improving recanalization rates but no overwhelming improvements in outcome.

Thus there is a need for a therapeutic agent which can be useful in treating ischemia as well as associated infarction and cell death.

The details of one or more embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter are set forth in this document. Modifications to embodiments described in this document and other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the information provided in this document. The information provided in this document and particularly the specific details of the described exemplary embodiments is provided primarily for clearness of understanding and no unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom.

The presently disclosed subject matter is directed to preventing and or treating ischemia with methods that involve use of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. As is known in the art ischemia can lead to infarction in a subject. Therefore the presently disclosed subject matter further relates to methods for preventing and or treating an infarction in a subject and such methods involve the use of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor.

In some embodiments a method is provided for preventing ischemia in a cell wherein the ischemia may be caused by one or more ischemic events. In some embodiment the method includes contacting the cell with an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. The term contacting as used herein refers to any means by which an 5 1 integrin inhibitor brought into sufficient proximity and or in direct contact with a cell such that the cell is capable of receiving the 5 1 integrin inhibitor. For instance in some embodiments contact refers to coating a cell with an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. In other embodiments contact refers to culturing a cell in a solution that includes an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. In other embodiments the cell is within a subject and contact refers to administering an 5 1 integrin inhibitor to the subject such that a cell within the subject is capable of receiving an 5 1 integrin inhibitor.

The term preventing as used herein refers to the characteristic of reducing or eliminating ischemia as well as the side effects associated with ischemia which can include infarction. The term preventing does not imply a particular degree of reduction or elimination of ischemia. Likewise the term preventing does not imply that infarction due to ischemia is eliminated. Instead the term preventing refers to reducing ischemia as well as side effects thereof including potentially infarction by about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 relative to a control that has not been contacted or treated with an 5 1 integrin inhibitor.

Furthermore the terms inhibitor and the like do not necessarily refer to the ability to completely inactivate all target biological activity in all cases. Rather the skilled artisan will understand that the term inhibitor refers to a substance that can decrease biological activity of a target such as can occur with a ligand binding site of the target or protein in a biochemical pathway of the target is blocked or when a non native complex with the target or protein in a biochemical pathway of the target is formed. Such decrease in biological activity can be determined relative to a control wherein an inhibitor is not administered and or placed in contact with the target. Accordingly the term 5 1 integrin inhibitor refers to substances that can decrease or eliminate 5 1 integrin activity optionally relative to a control that has not been contacted with an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. In some embodiments a decrease in 5 1 integrin activity relative to a control can be about a 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 decrease.

As used herein the term polypeptide means any polymer comprising any of the 20 protein amino acids regardless of its size. Although protein is often used in reference to relatively large polypeptides and peptide is often used in reference to small polypeptides usage of these terms in the art overlaps and varies. The term polypeptide as used herein refers to peptides polypeptides and proteins unless otherwise noted. As used herein the terms protein polypeptide and peptide are used interchangeably herein when referring to a gene product. Unless otherwise indicated a particular polypeptide also implicitly encompasses conservatively substituted variants thereof.

As used herein small molecule refers to a non peptidic non oligomeric organic compound either synthesized in the laboratory or found in nature. Small molecules as used herein can refer to compounds that are natural product like however the term small molecule is not limited to natural product like compounds. Rather a small molecule is typically characterized in that it possesses one or more of the following characteristics including having several carbon carbon bonds having multiple stereocenters having multiple functional groups having at least two different types of functional groups and having a molecular weight of less than 1500 although this characterization is not intended to be limiting for the purposes of the disclosure.

In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is selected from ATN 161 Ac PhScN NH CRRETAWAC SEQ. ID NO 1 5 1 integrin inhibitor peptide and combinations thereof. ATN 161 is a peptide with the amino acid sequence PHSCN that has been developed to inhibit 5 1 integrin and has successfully completed Phase I and Phase II clinical trials for recurrent intracranial malignant glioma. Among other things ATN 161 can be safely administered intravenously has a relatively short serum half life e.g. 3 5 h for some subjects with high tissue distribution and localizes to vasculature over expressing activated but not unactivated 5 1 integrin. ATN 161 in addition to noncovalent interaction with the 5 integrin subunit can have a covalent interaction with the 1 and 3 subunit of 5 1 and v 3 integrin.

Ac PhScN NHis a modified version of ATN 161 in which the covalent interaction is eliminated by replacing the H and C with D stereoisomers. Ac PhScN NHspecifically and noncovalently interacts with the 5 subunit of 5 1 integrin and is between 27 000 fold and 379 000 fold more potent and specifically inhibits activated 5 1 integrin mediated processes.

In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor includes a CRRETAWAC 5 1 integrin inhibitor peptide. See e.g. Koivunen E Wang B Ruoslahti E. Isolation of a highly specific ligand for the alpha 5 beta 1 integrin from a phage display library. 1994 124 3 373 380. In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is selected from an 5 1 integrin antibody that inhibits the function of the 5 1 integrin inhibitor. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize antibodies for blocking the function of 5 1 integrin as well as such antibodies suited for use in particular subjects including human and non human subjects.

Additionally without being bound by theory or mechanism relatively small peptides such as ATN 161 Ac PhScN NH2 and CRRETAWAC SEQ ID NO 1 5 1 integrin inhibitor peptide may not be able to cross the intact blood brain barrier BBB like other small peptides cannot. This characteristic can be advantageous for targeting circulation accessible activated brain endothelial cell 5 1 integrin to potentially stabilize the BBB.

With respect to methods for preventing ischemia in a cell in some embodiments the cell is a brain cell. In other embodiments the cell is part of a particular tissue and the method includes preventing ischemia in the cell s of the tissue. In this respect the term tissue is used herein to refer to a population of cells generally consisting of cells of the same kind that perform the same or similar functions. The types of cells that make the tissue are not limited. In some embodiments tissue is part of a living organism and in some embodiments tissue is tissue excised from a living organism or artificial tissue. In some embodiments tissue can be part of an organ wherein the term organ refers to a part of a subject which is composed of several tissues and adapted to perform a specific function or functions such as the brain.

The presently disclosed subject matter also relates to methods for treating ischemia in a subject. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is selected from small molecule and a polypeptide. In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is selected from ATN 161 Ac PhScN NHCRRETAWAC SEQ ID NO 1 5 1 integrin inhibitor peptide and combinations thereof.

The term administering refers to any method of providing an 5 1 integrin inhibitor and or pharmaceutical composition thereof to a subject. Such methods are well known to those skilled in the art and include but are not limited to oral administration transdermal administration nasal administration intracerebral administration and administration by injuction which itself can include intravenous administration intra arterial administration intramuscular administration subcutaneous administration intravitreous administration intracameral into anterior chamber administration and the like. Administration can be continuous or intermittent. In various aspects a preparation can be administered therapeutically that is administered to treat an existing disease or condition e.g. ischemia infarction etc. . In other instances a preparation is administered prophylactically that is administered to prevent or treat a disease or condition that may otherwise develop.

As used herein the terms effective amount and therapeutically effective amount are used interchangeably and mean a dosage sufficient to provide treatment. The exact amount that is required will vary from subject to subject depending on the species age and general condition of the subject the particular carrier or adjuvant being used mode of administration and the like. As such the effective amount will vary based on the particular circumstances and an appropriate effective amount can be determined in a particular case by one of ordinary skill in the art using only routine experimentation.

In some instances an effective amount is determined relative to the weight of a subject and can be selected from dosages of about 1 mg kg 2 mg kg 3 mg kg 4 mg kg 5 mg kg 6 mg kg 7 mg kg 8 mg kg 9 mg kg 10 mg kg 11 mg kg 12 mg kg 13 mg kg 14 mg kg 15 mg kg 16 mg kg 17 mg kg 18 mg kg 19 mg kg 20 mg kg 21 mg kg 22 mg kg 23 mg kg 24 mg kg 25 mg kg 26 mg kg 27 mg kg 28 mg kg 29 mg kg 30 mg kg 31 mg kg 32 mg kg 33 mg kg 34 mg kg 35 mg kg 36 mg kg 37 mg kg 38 mg kg 39 mg kg 40 mg kg 41 mg kg 42 mg kg 43 mg kg 44 mg kg 45 mg kg 46 mg kg 47 mg kg 48 mg kg 49 mg kg and 50 mg kg.

The term subject is used herein to refer to a target of administration which optionally displays symptoms related to a particular disease pathological condition disorder or the like. Thus in some embodiments a subject refers to a target that displays symptoms of ischemia and or infarction. The subject of the herein disclosed methods can include both human and animal subjects. A subject can be but is not limited to vertebrates such as mammals fish birds reptiles or amphibians. More specifically the subject of the herein disclosed methods can include but is not limited to a human non human primate cat dog deer bison horse pig rabbit dog sheep goat cow cat guinea pig or rodent. The term does not denote a particular age or sex. Adult and newborn subjects as well as fetuses whether male or female are intended to be covered. The term subject includes human and veterinary subjects.

The terms treat treatment and the like refer to the medical management of a subject with the intent to cure ameliorate stabilize or prevent a disease pathological condition or disorder. This term includes active treatment that is treatment directed specifically toward the improvement of a disease pathological condition or disorder and also includes causal treatment that is treatment directed toward removal of the cause of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder. In addition this term includes palliative treatment that is treatment designed for the relief of symptoms rather than the curing of the disease pathological condition or disorder preventative prophylatic treatment that is treatment directed to minimizing or partially or completely inhibiting the development of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder and supportive treatment that is treatment employed to supplement another specific therapy directed toward the improvement of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder.

In some methods for treating ischemia the ischemia is caused by a particular ischemic event. In some instances the ischemia is caused at least in part by an ischemic event selected from cerebral ischemia stroke and a combination thereof. In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is administered one or more times during or after the onset of ischemia and or during or after an ischemic event. In this respect in some embodiments an 5 1 integrin inhibitor is administered one or more times during or after the onset of two or more distinct ischemic events and therefore the present methods are not limited to a single administration of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. In such embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor can optionally be administered about 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 hours after the onset of the ischemic.

As discussed above treatment can be preventative prophylactic in some instances. Accordingly in some embodiments of the presently disclosed treatment methods the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is administered prior to the onset of ischemia and or prior to an ischemic event. In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is administered prior to each of one or more separate onsets of ischemia and or ischemic events.

In some embodiments administration of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor to a subject prior to during and or after the onset of ischemia can prevent i.e. 1 100 reduction relative to control the occurrence of infarction in the subject. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments administration of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor to a subject prior to during and or after the onset of ischemia can restore perfusion to tissues and organs in the subject.

Further still the presently disclosed subject matter relates to methods for preventing an infarction in a subject. In some embodiments a method for preventing an infarction in a subject comprises administering an effective amount of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor. In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is selected from small molecule and a polypeptide. In some embodiments the 5 1 integrin inhibitor is selected from ATN 161 Ac PhScN NHCRRETAWAC SEQ ID NO 1 5 1 integrin inhibitor peptide and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments of methods for preventing an infraction in a subject prior to administering an 5 1 integrin inhibitor the subject is first diagnosed and or prognosed as having ischemia. In some instances the subject can be diagnosed as having ischemia that has already led to an infarction in the subject. Administration of an 5 1 integrin inhibitor prior to an ischemic event whether or not a subject has been prognosed as being at risk for ischemia could therefore serve as a preventative treatment for ischemia and potentially infarction.

The terms diagnose and the like as used herein refer to methods by which the skilled artisan can estimate and even determine whether or not a subject is suffering from a given disease or condition such as ischemia. Along with diagnosis clinical prognosis or prognosticating is also an area of great concern and interest and the terms prognose and the like refer to act of determining the relative risk associated with particular conditions in order to plan the most effective therapy. If an accurate prognosis can be made appropriate therapy and in some instances less severe therapy or more effective therapy for the subject can be chosen. For instance in some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a subject that is prognosed as having ischemia can have an 5 1 integrin inhibitor administered in order to prevent the potential ischemia from developing.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize factors and methods for diagnosing and or prognosing a subject with ischemia. Factors that can contribute to a diagnosis and or prognosis of ischemia in a subject include but are not limited to hypercholesterolemia electrocardiogram EKG changes associated with a risk of or the presence of ischemia e.g. peaked or inverted T waves or ST segment elevations or depression in an appropriate clinical context sedentary lifestyles angiographic evidence of partial coronary artery obstruction evidence of a cerebrovascular accident CVA and other clinical evidence of ischemia

The presently disclosed subject matter is further illustrated by the following specific but non limiting examples. The examples may include compilations of data that are representative of data gathered at various times during the course of development and experimentation related to the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore some of the examples described herein may be prophetic examples.

This Example demonstrates that stroke induced upregulation and activation of an 5 1 integrin allows systemically administered domain V DV protein fragment of the brain extracellular matrix proteoglycan perlecan to target a stroke site. This Example therefore links the therapeutic effect of DV to 5 1 integrin.

A transient middle cerebral artery occlusion MCAo was performed in 3 month old male mice that had endothelial cell selective knockdown of the 5 integrin referred to hereafter as 5 integrin KO mice . As the 5 integrin subunit is known to only heterodimerize with the 1 integrin subunit this mouse is effectively deficient in endothelial cell 5 1 integrin. These mice were healthy fertile and had no spontaneous vascular or hematopoietic phenotypes no alterations in developmental vasculogenesis or angiogenesis no differences in vascular extracellular matrix composition or structure and no disparities in their subsets of hematopoietic cells. Furthermore these mice localized more v 3 at the brain endothelial cell surface in their focal adhesions but exhibited no increase in total v 5 protein. Brain angiogenesis in the face of chronic 14 days hypoxia was significantly delayed in these mice.

Relative to wild type WT littermates analysis of the 5 integrin KO mice demonstrated no significant differences in their cerebrovascular anatomy that could otherwise explain any differences in experimental infarct size no significant difference in brain microvascular density as quantified by immunohistochemistry and no significant differences in blood gas parameters. During the stroke surgery both 5 integrin KO and WT littermates experienced similar degradations in blood flow upon MCAo as measured by laser speckle Doppler PeriCam PSI HR Perimed reducing the likelihood that potential differences in collateral circulation could account for differences in infarct size.

It was noted that the KO mice had little to no discernible infarction as measured by TTC and little sign of neuronal injury i.e. small rounded pyknotic appearing neurons by cresyl violet stain or apoptotic cell death from PSD1 3 . This degree of apparent resistance to ischemic stroke injury is superior to other known genetically modified mice. The lack of neuronal injury death was associated with a qPCR measured decrease in the transcription of several pro inflammatory cytokines e.g. IL 1beta and TNFalpha were 0.33 fold and 0.34 fold respectively of PSD3 WT stroked control levels p

In this regard one of the more prominent ways in which ischemic brain injury expands is via disruption of the blood brain barrier BBB allowing for cytotoxic and vasogenic edema infiltration of immune and inflammatory cells and the like. For this reason limiting poststroke BBB disruption was examined for potential therapeutic benefits. The BBB appears to open and close repeatedly after transient ischemic stroke. Typically the hyperemia associated with reperfusion is associated with increased BBB opening followed by a refractory period of slight hypoperfusion and a closed BBB which is then followed by a biphasic period of BBB opening. Without being bound by theory or mechanism the earlier periods of BBB opening may be due to increased endothelial transcytosis while the final opening period which typically occurs between 18 96 hours after reperfusion is associated with increased paracellular permeability due to disruption of tight junction TJ proteins such as claudin 5 vasogenic edema inflammatory cell infiltration and the initiation of angiogenesis.

As discussed above 5 1 integrin is a mediator in the angiogenic response and is upregulated in stroke affected vasculature during the first 24 hours in the MCAo model. Additionally the difference in neuronal injury and inflammatory mediator transcription in the 5 integrin KO mice was evident as early as 24 hours post MCAo. Thus the deletion of this single endothelial cell integrin may cause such neuroprotection by preventing the final BBB opening by stabilizing TJ proteins thereby minimizing ischemic injury after transient MCAo.

This Example describes procedures performed to further characterize the effect of endothelial cell selective 5 1 integrin deletion on experimental ischemic stroke.

In addition to the results detailed in Example 1 for the 5 integrin KO mice IgG immunohistochemistry was performed to determine potential differences in post stroke BBB permeability on PSD1 and 3 . IgG immunoreactivity was abundant in all of the brains of stroked WT mice at both PSDs but was not detected in any of the 5 integrin KO mice brains n 6 . This supports the notion that that the absence of endothelial cell 5 integrin promotes post stroke BBB integrity.

This Example describes procedures performed to characterize the potential of the 5 1 integrin as a therapeutic target for ischemic stroke. As discussed above 5 integrin KO mice suggest that the 5 1 integrin could represent an effective stroke therapeutic target. In this Example this therapeutic quality will be investigated by determining whether inhibition of the more specific 5 1 integrin in WT mice after MCAo results in resistance to ischemic injury and improved functional outcomes mirroring the results seen in stroked 5 integrin KO mice.

To determine the therapeutic potential of blocking the 5 1 integrin after MCAo 3 month old male WT mice were treated with ATN 161 or PBS vehicle control 12 hours after MCAo and assessed mean infarct volume and the extent of TUNEL positive apoptosis on PSD3 N 12 two separate experiments . ATN 161 treatment resulted in little to no TTC detected infarct and minimal apoptosis supporting the notion that pharmacologically targeting the 5 1 integrin in stroked subjects can be therapeutic. Additionally treatment with ATN 161 did not alter animal vital signs upon administration and was well tolerated as indicated by a lack of signs of illness such as fur ruffling weight differences and the like.

This Example describes procedures performed to characterize the role of 5 1 integrin in modulating blood brain barrier integrity and subsequent resistance to ischemic stroke. Based on the results of the previous Examples that 5 integrin KO mice appear to resist post stroke BBB breakdown after transient MCAo and that post stroke claudin 5 gene expression increases in these mice it appears that suppression of brain endothelial cell 5 1 integrin in an ischemia affected brain is neuroprotective at least in part by stabilization of the post stroke BBB via increased expression and function of claudin 5.

Without being bound by theory or mechanism claudin 5 stabilization in addition to reducing paracellular permeability could result in less cell surface expression of 5 1 integrin less endothelial cell activation and less transcellular permeability. Based on previous results it appears that 5 1 is linked to protein kinase a PKA PKA to Ras homolog family member A RhoA and barrier stability effects and RhoA to claudin 5 function via Rho associated coiled coil containing protein kinase 1 ROCK1 mediated phosphorylation. Without being bound by theory or mechanism a schematic for 5 1 mediation of tight junction TJ protein function and BBB permeability is summarized in .

To determine whether inhibition of 5 1 integrin with ATN 161 in brain endothelial cells has any effect on their permeability under baseline or stroke like conditions oxygen glucose deprivation OGD reperfusion in vitro FITC dextran permeability experiments were performed with a C57Bl6 WT brain endothelial cell line ATN 161. While no differences were noted in FITC dextran permeability in non OGD exposed cells ATN 161 treatment data not shown ATN 161 blocked the OGD mediated increase in endothelial cell permeability to FITC dextran . As the 8 hour OGD 24 hour reperfusion protocol did not cause significant endothelial cell death or detachment trypan blue cell exclusion assay data not shown the ATN 161 effect on permeability cannot be simply attributed to potential OGD cell protection. This Example supports the notion that inhibition of brain endothelial cell 5 1 integrin stabilizes brain endothelial cell permeability under stroke like OGD reperfusion conditions.

Next it was determined that ATN 161 could block the OGD induced increase in 5 1 integrin expression in WT brain endothelial cells supporting the notion that inhibiting 5 1 integrin might help stabilize brain endothelial cell permeability in part by preventing an increase in 5 1 integrin expression.

The studies also demonstrated that ATN 161 could prevent the OGD mediated decrease in claudin 5 expression as measured by western blot and immunocytochemistry in mouse brain endothelial cells which could be inhibited by the PKA specific inhibitor PKI . It was noted that Ac PhScN NH2 was more effective than ATN 161 in further increasing claudin 5 levels above normoxic control levels.

Next to demonstrate whether absent brain endothelial cell 5 1 integrin could affect claudin 5 expression after stroke claudin 5 qPCR was performed on PSD1 from the stroked and sham cerebral hemispheres of 5 integrin KO mice and WT littermates. While sham claudin 5 levels were identical between the two genotypes claudin 5 gene expression increased by 60 in stroked 5 integrin KO mice relative to stroked WT littermate controls suggesting that endothelial cell knockdown of 5 1 integrin positively effects claudin 5 gene expression after ischemic stroke.

While the terms used herein are believed to be well understood by one of ordinary skill in the art definitions are set forth herein to facilitate explanation of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the presently disclosed subject matter belongs. Although any methods devices and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the presently disclosed subject matter representative methods devices and materials are now described.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the refer to one or more when used in this application including the claims. Thus for example reference to an inhibitor includes a plurality of such inhibitors and so forth.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients properties such as reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in this specification and claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the presently disclosed subject matter.

As used herein the term about when referring to a value or to an amount of mass weight time volume concentration or percentage is meant to encompass variations of in some embodiments 20 in some embodiments 10 in some embodiments 5 in some embodiments 1 in some embodiments 0.5 and in some embodiments 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed method.

As used herein ranges can be expressed as from about one particular value and or to about another particular value. It is also understood that there are a number of values disclosed herein and that each value is also herein disclosed as about that particular value in addition to the value itself. For example if the value 10 is disclosed then about 10 is also disclosed. It is also understood that each unit between two particular units are also disclosed. For example if 10 and 15 are disclosed then 11 12 13 and 14 are also disclosed.

Throughout this document various references are mentioned. All such references are incorporated herein by reference.

