---

title: Wireless connectivity using white spaces
abstract: Techniques for wireless connectivity using white spaces (e.g., television (TV) white spaces) are described. In at least some embodiments, movement of a device operating as a white space access point is monitored by local sensors within the device. Movement data that is gathered by the local sensors is used to determine an upper bound of distance travelled. When the upper bound reaches a threshold distance, various actions can be performed relating to the data transmission, such as to cease transmission or to utilize different portions of the radio spectrum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538390&OS=09538390&RS=09538390
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09538390
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150123
---
Many devices today utilize some form of wireless radio frequency RF data communication. Examples of RF communication include wide area cellular networks e.g. for mobile services local area network access e.g. WiFi connectivity broadcast television global positioning system GPS navigation and so forth. Typically different forms of RF communication use different portions of the radio spectrum. While many portions of the radio spectrum are allocated and or licensed or assigned for particular uses there remain portions that are underutilized. Such underutilized portions of the radio spectrum may be leveraged for various forms of RF communication on an unlicensed basis such as those listed above. Any use of such underutilized portions however must avoid interference with existing licensed RF communications and must comply with regulatory requirements for RF communication. The United States Federal Communication Commission FCC currently requires that portable devices transmitting on white space frequencies in the United States must have a known location to within 50 meters.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Techniques for wireless connectivity using white spaces are described. In at least some embodiments movement of a device operating as a white space access point is monitored by local sensors within the device. Movement data that is gathered by the local sensors is used to determine an upper bound of distance travelled. When the upper bound reaches a threshold distance various actions can be performed relating to the data transmission such as to cease transmission or to utilize different portions of the radio spectrum.

Techniques for wireless connectivity using white spaces are described. According to various implementations local sensors on a wireless device are used to maintain regulatory compliance by performing actions responsive to detecting local movement of the wireless device while utilizing white spaces in the radio spectrum e.g. television TV white spaces for data transmission. In at least some implementations a set of channels is selected for wireless communication. The set of channels may be selected from various portions of the RF spectrum such as unassigned portions of the RF spectrum e.g. TV white spaces guard bands between licensed portions of the RF spectrum RF spectrum allocated for access on an unlicensed basis unused or underutilized portions of licensed RF spectrum and so forth.

According to various implementations movement of a wireless device that is using a set of wireless channels is detected utilizing local sensors that collect movement related data. Utilizing the movement related data it is determined whether the wireless device has moved a threshold distance from a starting location. Movement may be measured according to various degrees of accuracy and may or may not include directional information. According to various implementations upon reaching the threshold distance the wireless device performs an action in relation to the wireless communication. Examples of such action include presenting a notification that the threshold distance is reached ceasing use of the set of wireless channels for wireless communication validating that the set of wireless channels may continue to be used seeking a new set of wireless channels switching a method for wireless communication and so forth.

In at least some implementations the threshold distance is related to a regulatory requirement for location awareness. For instance a regulatory requirement for utilizing a set of wireless channels may specify that in order for a wireless device to be permitted to utilize the set of wireless channels the wireless device is to know its geographic location to within a threshold distance e.g. n meters. Thus if the wireless device moves more than the threshold distance from a previous known geographic location without updating its location awareness the wireless device may ascertain that an action in relation to the set of wireless channels is to be performed such as to validate that the device is still permitted to utilize the set of wireless channels. Such a scenario may occur when a wireless device is in a location where geographic position information is not available such as inside a structure.

According to various implementations position determination functionality of a wireless device e.g. Global Positioning System GPS functionality is maintained in an inactive state e.g. powered off. When movement of the wireless device a threshold distance is detected the position determination functionality is activated e.g. powered on to ascertain a location of the wireless device. In an event that the location of the wireless device is a threshold distance from a previous location an action in relation to wireless communication is performed examples of which are detailed throughout this disclosure.

Thus implementations provide ways of performing actions responsive to detecting local movement of non stationary wireless devices e.g. wireless access points utilizing white spaces in the radio spectrum for data transmission. Such implementations may allow for a non stationary or mobile device to operate as a white space access point while maintaining regulatory compliance. Further power consumption may be decreased as local sensors are used to determine movement thus eliminating the need to maintain external connections with remote sensors and or systems. Power consumption may further be decreased by maintaining certain position determination functionality in an inactive state until certain distance related events occur. Still further such implementations may operate when no remote sensors and or systems are available to determine location or movement. Thus non stationary or mobile devices may act as a white space access point while retaining regulatory compliance in a variety of situations.

In the following discussion an example environment is first described that is operable to employ techniques described herein. Next a section entitled Example Implementation Scenarios describes some implementation scenarios involving techniques discussed herein which may be employed in the example environment as well as in other environments. Following this a section entitled Example Procedures describes some example procedures for using local sensors to maintain a whitespace access point in accordance with one or more embodiments. Finally a section entitled Example System and Device describes an example system and device that are operable to employ techniques discussed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments.

The computing device of is illustrated as including wireless module which is representative of functionality to enable the computing device to communicate wirelessly with other devices and or entities. The wireless module can be configured to enable data communication via a variety of different wireless techniques and protocols. Examples of such techniques and or protocols include mobile cellular communications e.g. 3G 4G Long Term Evolution LTE and so forth near field communication NFC short range wireless connections e.g. Bluetooth local area wireless networks e.g. one or more standards in compliance with IEEE 802.11 wide area fixed wireless networks e.g. one or more standard in compliance with IEEE 802.16 wireless telephone networks and so on. For instance the wireless module is configured to perform various aspects of techniques for using local sensors to maintain a whitespace access point discussed herein.

The computing device further includes wireless hardware which is representative of various hardware components that can be employed to enable the computing device to communicate wirelessly. Examples of the wireless hardware include radio transmitters radio receivers various types and or combinations of antennas impedance matching functionality and so on. In at least some implementations the computing device is a multi radio device that can communicate via different wireless technologies and or protocols.

Further included as part of the computing device are one or more device drivers which are representative of functionality to enable the computing device to interact with various devices and vice versa. For instance the device drivers can enable interaction between various functionalities of the computing device e.g. an operating system applications services and so on and different devices of the computing device such as input output I O devices. The device drivers for instance can enable interaction between the wireless module and the wireless hardware to enable the computing device to transmit and receive wireless signals.

In at least some implementations the computing device is configured to communicate with other devices and or entities via a communication application . Generally the communication application is representative of functionality to enable different forms of communication via the computing device . Examples of the communication application include a voice communication application e.g. a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP client a video communication application a messaging application a content sharing application and combinations thereof. The communication application for instance enables different communication modalities to be combined to provide diverse communication scenarios.

The computing device further includes geographical position module which is representative of functionality to enable the computing device to determine a geographical position of the device. The geographical position module can be configured to enable determination of a geographical location of the computing device via a variety of different techniques utilizing external sources. Examples of such techniques include utilizing space based satellite navigation systems such as the Global Position System GPS including potential variants such as assisted GPS or differential GPS the Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS the BeiDou or Compass navigation system and or the Galileo positioning system. Examples of such techniques further include utilizing cellular communication systems broadband wireless e.g. WiFi networks or radio frequency identifier RFID functionality such as for trilateration or multilateration relative to a plurality of different wireless base stations or access points having known locations and or a technique based on detecting signal strength relative to a known base station or access point combinations thereof and so forth. Examples of geographical location information may include GPS coordinates network location location with reference to a cell tower and or set of cell towers a street address an enterprise based location e.g. a building name and or number an office number and so forth and so on.

Further included as part of the computing device is movement detection hardware which is representative of various hardware components that can be employed to enable the computing device to detect movement of the device. In one or more implementations the movement detection hardware may include one or more accelerometer components also referred to simply as accelerometers . An accelerometer provides an indication of a direction of movement e.g. in two or three dimensions and a distance or amount of movement. The direction can be specified in different manners such as an angle e.g. a particular number of degrees from an origin a compass direction and so forth. The distance can also be specified in different manners such as in meters and or fractions thereof feet and so forth.

Alternatively or additionally the movement detection hardware may include various MEMS Microelectromechanical Systems or Microelectronicmechanical systems sensors such as a compass a gyroscope a barometric altimeter and so forth. The movement detection hardware may be able to determine distance and or direction of movement based on the various MEMS and or other components.

Further included as part of the computing device is movement module which is representative of functionality to determine and track movement of the computing device . According to implementations discussed herein the movement module can determine movement of the computing device in various ways such as at regular intervals e.g. every n milliseconds ms at irregular intervals at a same frequency as content displayed on the computing device is updated e.g. at a display refresh rate used by the computing device in response to an event in response to input from another component or module and so forth.

Additionally or alternatively the movement module can include and or receive input e.g. movement related data from one or more other components or modules e.g. the movement detection hardware of the computing device to determine the movement of the computing device . In at least some implementations the movement module may estimate a number of steps taken based on input received from the movement detection hardware . The estimated number of steps taken may be multiplied by an estimated average distance per step to determine a distance travelled.

Alternatively or additionally the movement module can receive data from one or more other components and analyze the received data to determine the direction and or distance of movement of the computing device . For example the movement module can receive data that is captured images from a camera or other image capture device. The movement module can determine based on the captured images e.g. by tracking object locations in the images a direction and or distance of movement of the computing device . Input received by the movement module can include various other types of input such as portions of captured images data identifying objects in captured images and so forth.

In one or more implementations the movement module determines a device movement vector that indicates a distance and direction of movement of the computing device . The device movement vector can have any number of dimensions such as two dimensions e.g. in the x and y dimensions of a plane of the computing device three dimensions e.g. in the x and y dimensions of a plane of the computing device and in a z dimension approximately perpendicular to the plane that includes the x and y dimensions and so forth. A plane of the computing device for instance refers to a plane approximately parallel to a display surface of the computing device e.g. a screen on which content is displayed . The movement module can provide the device movement vector to other components in various manners such as providing the device movement vector as a parameter of a procedure function application programming interface API etc. by storing the device movement vector in a location accessible to other components and so forth.

The environment further includes a network which is representative of a single network or a combination of different interconnected networks. In at least some implementations the network represents different portions of the radio spectrum that may be leveraged for wireless communication. The network for instance represents radio spectrum in different frequency bands such as ultra high frequency UHF super high frequency SHF and so forth. The network may also represent a combination of wireless and wired networks and may be configured in a variety of ways such as a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN the Internet and so forth. According to various implementations the wireless module is configured to enable the computing device to act as a wireless access point for other devices to access the network .

The environment further includes channel database service which is representative of functionality to track and or manage various attributes of wireless channels e.g. white spaces. The channel database service for instance can track channel utilization for different wireless channels e.g. whether a particular wireless channel is in use and or is available to be used for wireless communication level of channel usage for different channels and so forth. The channel database service may track and monitor various other attributes of wireless channels such as channel quality signal to noise ratios for different channels noise floor in particular channels and so forth. For example the channel database service maintains channel database which stores status information for different wireless channels. As further detailed below the channel database service may provide channel information from the channel database to different entities e.g. the computing device to enable wireless channels to be selected for wireless communication.

In at least some implementations the channel database service receives information regarding wireless channels from channel owners . Generally the channel owners are representative of different entities that have certain rights and or privileges to different portions of the radio spectrum. For instance the channel owners may represent licensees of certain portions of the radio spectrum in a particular market and or markets such as television networks cellular carriers radio stations and so forth. The channel owners may also represent entities that are granted exclusive or shared access to particular frequency bands such as government organizations emergency services academic and or research entities and so forth. Generally licenses and privileges for access to different portions of the radio spectrum are regulated by government organizations such as the Federal Communications Commission FCC in the United States the Office of Communications OFCOM in the United Kingdom and so forth.

Wireless channels tracked by the channel database may occur in various regions of the RF spectrum such as regions associated with broadcast television cellular communications satellite communications short range wireless communications and so forth.

As further illustrated in the environment the computing device includes available channel database which is representative of a database of wireless channels that are available for wireless communication in the network . The available channel database for instance can be populated with channel information received from the channel database service . The channel information received from the channel database service and therefore the available channel database may be based at least in part on the location of the computing device . In at least some implementations available channel information from the available channel database can be utilized by the computing device to enable a channel and or channels to be selected for wireless communication. Further details concerning identification and selection of wireless channels are presented below.

According to implementations discussed herein techniques can be employed to establish wireless data communication between the computing device and other devices utilizing a variety of different wireless data communication techniques and or protocols. For instance channels that are identified in the available channel database may be leveraged for wireless communication via various wireless standards such as cellular communications e.g. 3G 4G Long Term Evolution LTE and so forth near field communication NFC short range wireless connections e.g. Bluetooth local area wireless networks e.g. one or more standards in compliance with IEEE 802.11 wide area wireless networks e.g. one or more standard in compliance with IEEE 802.16 or 802.22 wireless telephone networks satellite communications and so on. This is not intended to be limiting however and a wide variety of different wireless techniques and protocols may be utilized in accordance with the disclosed implementations.

Having described an example environment in which the techniques described herein may operate consider now a discussion of some example implementation scenarios in accordance with one or more implementations.

The following discussion describes example implementation scenarios for wireless connectivity using white spaces in accordance with one or more implementations. In portions of the following discussion reference will be made to the environment of .

In the scenario the channel database service determines that spectrum portion of the radio spectrum includes a set of available channels . Generally the available channels correspond to channels e.g. white spaces guard bands and so forth that are available for wireless communication in a geographical region of the computing device .

The channel database service may determine the available channels in a variety of different ways. For instance the channel owners for individual of the respective available channels may notify the channel database service of the available channels . Alternatively or additionally the channel database service may query the channel owners as to whether their respective channels are being utilized. As yet another example the channel database service may detect that the available channels are not being leveraged for signal communication e.g. for a licensed use.

As an example implementation consider that the available channels include white spaces in the spectrum portion of the radio spectrum. The available channels for instance may be licensed to particular channel owners and or allocated for particular uses. The available channels however are not currently in use. For example the available channels correspond to discrete wireless channels that are licensed to particular channel owners but are not being utilized for their licensed purpose. In at least some implementations the channel owners for the respective available channels may notify the channel database service as such.

As an addition or alternative to white spaces the available channels may include various other types of channels and or regions of the RF spectrum such as guard bands between licensed portions licensed channels and so forth. Thus the available channels generally correspond to wireless channels that are available for wireless communication in a particular geographical region.

Further to the scenario the channel database service stores channel identifiers for the available channels as part of the channel database . According to various implementations the channel database stores channel identifiers for various wireless channels that are available in different geographical regions.

The channel database service then communicates the channel identifiers to the computing device which stores the channel identifiers as part of the available channel database . According to various implementations the channel database service may communicate channel identifiers for available wireless channels to the computing device periodically such as according to a pre specified time period. Alternatively or additionally the channel database service may communicate channel identifiers to the computing device in response to various events such as a query from the computing device for available channels.

Further to the scenario the computing device selects a channel set that includes one or more channels of the channel identifiers . The channel set for instance corresponds to a subset of the available channels and is selected based on one or more criteria such as a bandwidth requirement of the computing device . Generally the channel set is selected from the available channel database and includes the channel identifiers for individual channels of the channel set . The channel set may identify available channels in various ways such as with reference to frequency ranges for the individual channels channel numbers for the channels e.g. assigned based on a regional band plan and so forth.

According to various implementations individual channels of the channel set may include allowed transmission power levels. A maximum transmission power for instance may be specified for individual channels to mitigate interference with communication in adjacent channels such as licensed uses of channels that are in proximity to the available channels .

In at least some implementations the computing device e.g. via the wireless module can query the channel database service for available channels on a periodic basis e.g. every 24 hours and or in response to various events such as detecting that the computing device has moved a threshold distance. The computing device stores the channel set and may utilize one or more channels identified in the channel set to initiate and or participate in wireless data communication according to techniques for using local sensors to maintain a whitespace access point discussed herein.

Generally the scenarios discussed below represent scenarios in which the computing device is utilizing a set of wireless channels for wireless communication such as for serving as a wireless access point for one or more other devices. The scenarios are further discussed with reference to a threshold distance which generally represents a distance of movement after which an action in relation to the set of wireless channels is to occur.

The scenario includes the computing device introduced above and further indicates an origin location that represents a starting location of the computing device and a threshold distance from the origin location . The origin location may be an unknown arbitrary location or may be a known location such as a location determined by the geographical position module . The threshold distance may be for example 50 meters n meters or any other specified distance. The movement module receives movement information from the movement detection hardware describing movement of the computing device . The movement information may be determined in various ways examples of which are detailed below. In this scenario the movement module determines that the movement is of a distance equal to or greater than the threshold distance away from the origin location . Based on the determination the computing device performs one or more actions in relation to wireless connectivity. Example actions in relation to wireless connectivity are discussed below.

The scenario of includes the computing device introduced above and the threshold distance as introduced above with reference to . The movement module receives movement information from the movement detection hardware representing movements and of the computing device from the origin location . In the scenario the movement includes movement in a first direction and the movement includes movement in a second direction. In the scenario movement information does not include direction information and includes only distance information represented as movement upper bound . Generally the movement upper bound represents an estimated distance of movement that is estimated based only on movement of the computing device and does not incorporate direction of movement. As illustrated the movement upper bound is at least equal to the threshold distance even though device movement vector does not meet or exceed the threshold distance . Generally the device movement vector represents an actual distance of the computing device from the origin location after the movements and . In this particular scenario however movement of the computing device is determined based on total accumulated movement and not on direction of movement and thus movement of the computing device is determined to be the movement upper bound . Based on the movement upper bound the computing device performs one or more actions in relation to wireless connectivity. Example actions in relation to wireless connectivity are discussed below.

The scenario in includes the computing device introduced above and the threshold distance as introduced above with reference to . The movement module receives movement information from the movement detection hardware representing movements of the computing device from the origin location . In this scenario the movement represents movement in a first direction and the movement represents movement in a second direction. Generally movement information in the scenario includes both distance information and direction information and is represented as device movement vector . The device movement vector is a vector representing a total estimated movement of the computing device from the origin location through the movements and . In at least some implementations a movement upper bound may be estimated to be equal to the device movement vector . Alternatively the movement upper bound may be estimated to be greater than the device movement vector . For example the movement upper bound may include the device movement vector and an additional error or safety value. In this scenario although the combined distance of the movement and the movement exceeds the threshold distance the device movement vector and the movement upper bound do not exceed the threshold distance . As the movement upper bound does not exceed the threshold distance the computing device is not required to perform an action in relation to wireless connectivity. The computing device for instance determines that it is still within a threshold distance from its last known location e.g. the origin location .

The scenario in is a continuation of the scenario . In this scenario there is additionally movement . Accordingly device movement vector is determined which is a vector representing the net movement of the computing device through the movements and . As illustrated the device movement vector at least meets or exceeds the threshold distance . In at least some implementations a movement upper bound for the computing device may be equal to the device movement vector . Alternatively the movement upper bound may be greater than the device movement vector . For example the movement upper bound may include the device movement vector with an additional error or safety value added. Based on the movement upper bound meeting or exceeding the threshold distance the computing device performs one or more actions in relation to wireless connectivity. Example actions in relation to wireless connectivity are discussed below.

The scenario includes the computing device and the threshold distance as introduced above with reference to . The movement module receives movement information from the movement detection hardware representing movements of the computing device . Utilizing the movement information the movement module estimates a movement upper bound .

In this scenario movement upper bound exceeds the threshold distance . In response to movement upper bound exceeding the threshold distance the computing device activates a location detection functionality such as the geographical position module to receive location data from a remote source. For instance until it is determined that the movement of the computing device meets or exceeds the threshold distance the geographical position module is maintained in an inactive state. The location detection functionality may establish the location of the computing device to be within the threshold distance such as at location . The computing device may determine based on the location that its actual movement is movement . For instance movement data used to estimate the movement upper bound may have overestimated the actual distance from the origin location . Upon determining the movement the computing device may update the movement upper bound to match the movement and continue monitoring movement as described above.

In an alternative scenario the location detection functionality may establish the location of the computing device to be beyond the threshold distance . In such a scenario the computing device then proceeds to perform one or more actions in relation to wireless connectivity. Example actions in relation to wireless connectivity are discussed throughout this disclosure.

The scenario in includes the computing device and the threshold distance as introduced above with reference to . The movement module receives movement information from the movement detection hardware representing the movements of the computing device from the origin location . In this scenario the computing device moves to a new location . The movement to the new location is represented by movement upper bound that exceeds the threshold distance . As illustrated the computing device has moved beyond the threshold distance . In implementations the computing device may notify a user that the movement upper bound has exceeded the threshold distance .

According to various implementations the computing device performs one or more actions in relation to wireless connectivity in response to the movement upper bound exceeding the threshold distance . In this scenario the computing device ceases utilizing the channel set associated with the origin location and the threshold distance . For instance the wireless module determines that based on the computing device exceeding the threshold distance the channel set is stale and is to be refreshed. Accordingly the wireless module queries the channel database service for available channels and begins utilizing a new channel set associated with the new location . The new location is associated with threshold distance . In at least some implementations the query may involve activating a location detection functionality such as the geographical position module to receive location data from a remote source. Alternatively or additionally the computing device may cease utilizing the channel set and may present a notification and or query a user for further action.

The implementation scenarios and GUIs described above are presented for purpose of example only and it is to be appreciated that techniques discussed herein may be employed in a variety of other implementation scenarios and may utilize a variety of other GUIs not expressly depicted herein within the spirit and scope of the claimed implementations. Having discussed some example implementation scenarios consider now some example procedures in accordance with one or more implementations.

The following section describes some example procedures for wireless connectivity using white spaces in accordance with one or more implementations. The procedures for instance describe example ways of implementing various aspects of the example implementation scenarios described above. This is not to be construed as limiting however and the procedures may be employed in a variety of other implementation scenarios within the spirit and scope of the claimed implementations.

The procedures described herein may be used separately or in combination with each other in whole or in part. These procedures are shown as sets of operations or acts performed such as through one or more entities or modules and are not necessarily limited to the order shown for performing the operation. The example procedures may be employed in the environment of the system of and or any other suitable environment. According to one or more implementations the procedures describe example ways for performing various aspects of the example implementation scenarios described herein. In at least some implementations steps described for the various procedures are implemented automatically and independent of user interaction.

Step utilizes one or more white spaces in the radio spectrum for wireless connectivity for a device. For example a set of wireless channels is selected by the computing device from the available channel database . The set of wireless channels may be selected based on various criteria such as estimated bandwidth requirement channel quality combined channel bandwidth and so forth. For instance the computing device may query the channel database service for wireless channels for performing wireless communication such as voice communication video communication content sharing and so forth. Based on attributes of the wireless communication e.g. estimated bandwidth needed to exchange communication data the computing device selects a set of channels that can be combined to meet the needed bandwidth.

Alternatively or additionally the set of channels may be selected by the channel database service and communicated to the computing device . The set of wireless channels may include non contiguous channels e.g. channels that have at least one intervening RF region that is not included in the set of channels. Once the set of wireless channels is selected the computing device utilizes the selected channels for wireless connectivity such as by utilizing the wireless module the wireless hardware and or communication application . Utilization of the selected channels may include allowing the computing device to act as a wireless access point for other devices to access the network . For instance a different device may connect to the computing device via a device to device connection such that the computing device proxies network connectivity to the different device.

Step collects movement data locally from one or more sensors on the device. The collection may be performed by the movement detection hardware . For example the movement detection hardware may utilize an accelerometer a gyroscope and a compass to locally collect data regarding distance and direction of movement of the computing device . As referenced above the movement detection hardware may utilize any combination of a plurality of sensors to locally collect movement data. In some implementations the collection of movement data is performed while location detection functionality is in an inactive state.

Step detects based on the movement data that the device has moved a threshold distance. For example the movement module may detect that based on the movement data the computing device has been physically displaced to a new location that is a distance equal to or greater than a threshold distance from an origin location. Alternatively the movement module may estimate that based on the movement data the computing device has moved an aggregate distance that is greater than or equal to the threshold distance and may have been displaced a distance equal to or greater than the threshold distance from the origin location. In yet another example the movement mode may detect that based on the movement data the computing device is approaching the threshold distance e.g. is within a specified distance of the threshold distance. As referenced above with respect to the movement module may utilize any combination of a plurality of techniques to detect movement of the computing device . In some implementations detecting based on the movement that the device moves a threshold distance includes determining that the movement data indicates that the device may have moved the threshold distance and responsive to the determining verifying the location of the device based on a remote source. In some implementations the detecting is performed while location detection functionality is in an inactive state.

Step performs an action in relation to the wireless connectivity based on said detecting. In one example action the computing device may cease utilization of the white spaces for wireless connectivity. In an alternate or additional action the computing device may obtain and utilize one or more different white spaces for wireless connectivity. For example the computing device may query the channel database service for available channels and begin utilizing a new channel set associated with the current location of the computing device .

For instance a new channel set may be selected based on various criteria. As an example one or more channels communicated in a previous set of wireless channels may no longer be available and or may be determined to have insufficient signal quality to be used for wireless communication. As another example the channel database service may communicate updated channels to the computing device which then updates the available channel database . In at least some implementations the new channel set may include different channels a different number of channels different channel types e.g. channel bandwidths and so forth. Alternately or additionally the computing device may receive permissions from the channel database service to continue utilizing the one or more white spaces that are current being utilized by the computing device such as in step .

In another alternate or additional action the computing device may perform step and utilize one or more alternative or additional methods for wireless connectivity. For example the computing device may utilize 3G Bluetooth WiFi and or other techniques or protocols for wireless connectivity.

In yet another alternate or additional action the computing device may present a user notification in connection with step such as before or after performing one or more of the example actions discussed above. Example user notifications are detailed above with respect to . In some implementations the user notification may be presented for a specified duration e.g. n seconds may be presented until viewed by a user may be presented until user input is received and so forth.

Step maintains a location detection functionality of a device in an inactive state. For example the computing device may maintain the geographical position module in an inactive e.g. powered off state. As described above with reference to geographic position module may utilize any number of techniques such as a space based satellite navigation system e.g. GPS .

Step activates the location detection functionality to receive location data from a remote source in response to detecting that the device has moved a threshold distance from a previous location. For example the computing device may activate the geographical position module to receive location data from a remote source such as GPS data. Said detecting may be for example similar to that described in step of .

Step utilizes the location data to ascertain a current location of the device. For example the computing device may utilize GPS data to ascertain a current location of the device.

Step determines whether the computing device is located at a current location that is at least a threshold distance from an origin location. If the computing device is not located at least a threshold distance from the origin location No step deactivates the location detection functionality. For example the computing device may deactivate the geographical position module . If the client is located at least a threshold distance from the origin location Yes step performs an action in relation to the wireless activity. For example the computing device may cease utilization of the white spaces for wireless connectivity. The action may be for example any of those referenced above with respect to step of .

Step receives movement data representing movement of a device. For example the movement module may receive movement data from the movement detection hardware such as data collected by an accelerometer and or a gyroscope. In this implementation the movement data includes data representing distance but not data representing direction of movement.

Step determines a number of steps taken by a user of the device. For example the movement module may be able to interpret movement data from an accelerometer and or a gyroscope as describing a number of steps taken by a user of the computing device .

Step determines a distance travelled based on the determined number of steps. In some implementations the movement module may multiply the number of steps by a distance of an average step. The distance of an average step may be any number. In some implementations the distance of an average step may be a predetermined number for example 0.5 meters n meters and so forth. Alternatively the distance of an average step may be based on a user input.

Step receives movement data representing movement of a device. For example the movement module may receive movement data from the movement detection hardware such as data collected by an accelerometer and or a gyroscope. In this implementation the movement data includes data representing distance as well as data representing direction.

Step determines a distance and direction of movement of the device. For example the movement module may be able to interpret movement data from an accelerometer and or a gyroscope as describing a distance of movement of the computing device . Further the movement module may be able to interpret movement data from a compass as describing a direction of travel of the device corresponding in time the data describing the distance of movement.

Step estimates an actual distance travelled based on the distance and the direction of movement. For example the movement module may be able to determine a device movement vector based on the distance and direction of movement over a plurality of time intervals.

Step receives movement data representing movement of a device. For example the movement module may receive movement data from the movement detection hardware such as data collected by an accelerometer a gyroscope and a compass.

Step communicates the movement data to a remote resource. The remote resource may be for example a server a cloud network or another device.

Step receives an estimated distance travelled from the remote resource. For example the computing device may receive an indication from the remote resource that the computing device has moved n meters has moved n meters in a particular direction is located at particular coordinates or any other indication of location or distance.

Having discussed some example procedures consider now a discussion of an example system and device in accordance with one or more implementations.

The example computing device as illustrated includes a processing system one or more computer readable media and one or more I O Interfaces that are communicatively coupled one to another. Although not shown the computing device may further include a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components one to another. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus and or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures. A variety of other examples are also contemplated such as control and data lines.

The processing system is representative of functionality to perform one or more operations using hardware. Accordingly the processing system is illustrated as including hardware element that may be configured as processors functional blocks and so forth. This may include implementation in hardware as an application specific integrated circuit or other logic device formed using one or more semiconductors. The hardware elements are not limited by the materials from which they are formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein. For example processors may be comprised of semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs . In such a context processor executable instructions may be electronically executable instructions.

The computer readable media is illustrated as including memory storage . The memory storage represents memory storage capacity associated with one or more computer readable media. The memory storage may include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . The memory storage may include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive and so on as well as removable media e.g. Flash memory a removable hard drive an optical disc and so forth . The computer readable media may be configured in a variety of other ways as further described below.

Input output interface s are representative of functionality to allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices using various input output devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone e.g. for implementing voice and or spoken input a scanner touch functionality e.g. capacitive or other sensors that are configured to detect physical touch a camera e.g. which may employ visible or non visible wavelengths such as infrared frequencies to detect movement that does not involve touch as gestures and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card tactile response device and so forth. Thus the computing device may be configured in a variety of ways as further described below to support user interaction.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software hardware elements or program modules. Generally such modules include routines programs objects elements components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The terms module functionality and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The features of the techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

An implementation of the described modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. The computer readable media may include a variety of media that may be accessed by the computing device . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include computer readable storage media and computer readable signal media. 

 Computer readable storage media may refer to media and or devices that enable persistent storage of information in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. Computer readable storage media do not include signals per se. The computer readable storage media includes hardware such as volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media and or storage devices implemented in a method or technology suitable for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules logic elements circuits or other data. Examples of computer readable storage media may include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage hard disks magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other storage device tangible media or article of manufacture suitable to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.

 Computer readable signal media may refer to a signal bearing medium that is configured to transmit instructions to the hardware of the computing device such as via a network. Signal media typically may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves data signals or other transport mechanism. Signal media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

As previously described hardware elements and computer readable media are representative of instructions modules programmable device logic and or fixed device logic implemented in a hardware form that may be employed in some embodiments to implement at least some aspects of the techniques described herein. Hardware elements may include components of an integrated circuit or on chip system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a complex programmable logic device CPLD and other implementations in silicon or other hardware devices. In this context a hardware element may operate as a processing device that performs program tasks defined by instructions modules and or logic embodied by the hardware element as well as a hardware device utilized to store instructions for execution e.g. the computer readable storage media described previously.

Combinations of the foregoing may also be employed to implement various techniques and modules described herein. Accordingly software hardware or program modules and other program modules may be implemented as one or more instructions and or logic embodied on some form of computer readable storage media and or by one or more hardware elements . The computing device may be configured to implement particular instructions and or functions corresponding to the software and or hardware modules. Accordingly implementation of a module that is executable by the computing device as software may be achieved at least partially in hardware e.g. through use of computer readable storage media and or hardware elements of the processing system. The instructions and or functions may be executable operable by one or more articles of manufacture for example one or more computing devices and or processing systems to implement techniques modules and examples described herein.

As further illustrated in the example system enables ubiquitous environments for a seamless user experience when running applications on a personal computer PC a television device and or a mobile device. Services and applications run substantially similar in all three environments for a common user experience when transitioning from one device to the next while utilizing an application playing a video game watching a video and so on.

In the example system multiple devices are interconnected through a central computing device. The central computing device may be local to the multiple devices or may be located remotely from the multiple devices. In one embodiment the central computing device may be a cloud of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices through a network the Internet or other data communication link.

In one embodiment this interconnection architecture enables functionality to be delivered across multiple devices to provide a common and seamless experience to a user of the multiple devices. Each of the multiple devices may have different physical requirements and capabilities and the central computing device uses a platform to enable the delivery of an experience to the device that is both tailored to the device and yet common to all devices. In one embodiment a class of target devices is created and experiences are tailored to the generic class of devices. A class of devices may be defined by physical features types of usage or other common characteristics of the devices.

In various implementations the computing device may assume a variety of different configurations such as for computer mobile and television uses. Each of these configurations includes devices that may have generally different constructs and capabilities and thus the computing device may be configured according to one or more of the different device classes. For instance the computing device may be implemented as the computer class of a device that includes a personal computer desktop computer a multi screen computer laptop computer netbook and so on.

The computing device may also be implemented as the mobile class of device that includes mobile devices such as a mobile phone portable music player a wearable device a portable gaming device a tablet computer a multi screen computer and so on. The computing device may also be implemented as the television class of device that includes devices having or connected to generally larger screens in casual viewing environments. These devices include televisions set top boxes gaming consoles and so on.

The techniques described herein may be supported by these various configurations of the computing device and are not limited to the specific examples of the techniques described herein. For example functionalities discussed with reference to the computing device and or the channel database service may be implemented all or in part through use of a distributed system such as over a cloud via a platform as described below.

The cloud includes and or is representative of a platform for resources . The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware e.g. servers and software resources of the cloud . The resources may include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the computing device . Resources can also include services provided over the Internet and or through a subscriber network such as a cellular or WiFi network.

The platform may abstract resources and functions to connect the computing device with other computing devices. The platform may also serve to abstract scaling of resources to provide a corresponding level of scale to encountered demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform . Accordingly in an interconnected device embodiment implementation of functionality described herein may be distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part on the computing device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Discussed herein are a number of methods that may be implemented to perform techniques discussed herein. Aspects of the methods may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The methods are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. Further an operation shown with respect to a particular method may be combined and or interchanged with an operation of a different method in accordance with one or more implementations. Aspects of the methods can be implemented via interaction between various entities discussed above with reference to the environment .

A device comprising one or more processors and one or more computer readable media storing processor executable instructions that responsive to execution by the one or more processors cause the device to perform operations including utilizing one or more white spaces in the radio spectrum for wireless connectivity for a device collecting movement data locally from one or more sensors on the device detecting based on the movement data that the device moves a threshold distance and performing an action in relation to the wireless connectivity based on said detecting.

The device as described in example 1 wherein said utilizing one or more white spaces in the radio spectrum for wireless connectivity for a device comprises acting as a wireless access point for one or more other devices to connect to a network.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 or 2 wherein said one or more sensors on the device comprise an accelerometer or a gyroscope.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 3 wherein said one or more sensors on the device comprise an accelerometer or a gyroscope and said collecting movement data locally comprises utilizing the accelerometer or the gyroscope to determine a number of steps taken by a user of the device.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 4 wherein said one or more sensors on the device comprise an accelerometer a gyroscope and a compass and said collecting movement data locally comprises utilizing the accelerometer the gyroscope and the compass to determine a number and a direction of steps taken by a user of the device.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 5 wherein said performing an action in relation to the wireless connectivity comprises one or more of stopping utilizing the one or more white spaces utilizing one or more different white spaces submitting a request for a white space allocation for wireless connectivity for the device or utilizing one or more alternative methods for wireless connectivity.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 6 wherein said detecting based on the movement that the device moves a threshold distance comprises determining that the movement data indicates that the device may have moved the threshold distance and responsive to said determining verifying a location of the device based on a remote source.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 7 wherein said detecting based on the movement that the device moves a threshold distance comprises determining that the movement data indicates that the device may have moved the threshold distance and responsive to said determining verifying a location of the device based on a remote source the remote source comprising a space based satellite navigation system functionality.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 8 wherein said detecting based on the movement that the device moves a threshold distance comprises determining that the movement data indicates that the device may have moved the threshold distance responsive to said determining verifying a location of the device based on a remote source the remote source comprising a space based satellite navigation system functionality and responsive to said verifying deactivating the space based satellite navigation system functionality of the device.

The device as described in one or more of examples 1 9 the operations further comprising presenting a graphical user interface that indicates that the device has moved the threshold distance.

A computer implemented method comprising utilizing one or more white spaces in the radio spectrum for wireless connectivity for a device collecting movement data locally from one or more sensors on the device detecting based on the movement data that the device moves a threshold distance and performing an action in relation to the wireless connectivity based on said detecting including presenting a user notification.

The computer implemented method as described in example 11 wherein said user notification is presented in a graphical user interface of the device.

The computer implemented method as described in one or more of examples 11 or 12 wherein said user notification is presented in a graphical user interface of the device and said user notification comprises a message indicating that the device is performing the action.

The computer implemented method as described in one or more of examples 11 13 wherein said user notification is presented in a graphical user interface of the device and said user notification comprises a request for input relating to the action.

The computer implemented method as described in one or more of examples 11 14 wherein said performing an action in relation to the wireless connectivity comprises one or more of stopping utilizing the one or more white spaces utilizing one or more different white spaces submitting a request for a white space allocation for wireless connectivity for the device or utilizing one or more alternative methods for wireless connectivity.

The computer implemented method as described in one or more of examples 11 15 wherein said detecting based on the movement that the device moves a threshold distance comprises determining that the movement data indicates that the device may have moved the threshold distance and responsive to said determining verifying a location of the device based on a remote source.

The computer implemented method as described in one or more of examples 11 16 wherein said detecting based on the movement that the device moves a threshold distance comprises determining that the movement data indicates that the device may have moved the threshold distance responsive to said determining verifying a location of the device based on a remote source the remote source comprising a space based satellite navigation system functionality and responsive to said verifying deactivating the space based satellite navigation system functionality of the device.

A computer implemented method comprising utilizing one or more white spaces in the radio spectrum for wireless connectivity for a device collecting movement data locally from one or more sensors on the device detecting based on the movement data that the device moves a threshold distance and performing an action in relation to the wireless connectivity based on said detecting including activating a location detection functionality of the device configured to receive location data from a remote source.

The method as described example 18 wherein said utilizing one or more white spaces in the radio spectrum for wireless connectivity for a device comprises acting as an access point for one or more other devices to connect to a network via the one or more white spaces.

The method as described one or more of examples 18 or 19 wherein said utilizing one or more white spaces in the radio spectrum for wireless connectivity for a device comprises acting as an access point for one or more other devices to connect to a network via the one or more white spaces and said collecting and said detecting are performed while the location detection functionality is in an inactive state.

Techniques for using local sensors to maintain a whitespace access point are described. Although embodiments are described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the embodiments defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed embodiments.

