---

title: Substituted pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidines as bruton's tyrosine kinase modulators
abstract: 

and salts thereof, compositions thereof, and methods of use therefor, such as inhibiting protein kinase, including Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), and for treating disorders mediated thereby.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09447106&OS=09447106&RS=09447106
owner: BeiGene, Ltd.
number: 09447106
owner_city: George Town
owner_country: KY
publication_date: 20150527
---
This application is a continuation application of International Application No. PCT CN2014 075943 which was filed on Apr. 22 2014 which claims the benefit of priority to International Application No. PCT CN2013 074728 filed on Apr. 25 2013.

Bruton s tyrosine kinase Btk belongs to the Tec tyrosine kinase family Vetrie et al. 361 226 233 1993 Bradshaw 22 1175 84 2010 . Btk is primarily expressed in most hematopoietic cells such as B cells mast cells and macrophages Smith et al. 152 557 565 1994 and is localized in bone marrow spleen and lymph node tissue. Btk plays important roles in B cell receptor BCR and FcR signaling pathways which involve in B cell development differentiation Khan Immunol. Res. 23 147 2001 . Btk is activated by upstream Src family kinases. Once activated Btk in turn phosphorylates PLC gamma leading to effects on B cell function and survival Humphries et al. 279 37651 2004 . These signaling pathways must be precisely regulated. Mutations in the gene encoding Btk cause an inherited B cell specific immunodeficiency disease in humans known as X linked agammaglobulinemia XLA Conley et al. 27 199 227 2009 . Aberrant BCR mediated signaling may result in dysregulated B cell activation leading to a number of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Preclinical studies show that Btk deficient mice are resistant to developing collagen induced arthritis. Moreover clinical studies of Rituxan a CD20 antibody to deplete mature B cells reveal the key role of B cells in a number of inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus and multiple sclerosis Gurcan et al. 9 10 25 2009 . Therefore Btk inhibitors can be used to treat autoimmune and or inflammatory diseases.

In addition aberrant activating of Btk plays important role in pathogenesis of B cell lymphomas indicating that inhibition of Btk is useful in the treatment of hematological malignancies Davis et al. 463 88 92 2010 . Preliminary clinical trial results showed that the Bruton s tyrosine kinase Btk inhibitor PCI 32765 was effective in treatment of several types of B cell lymphoma for example 54American Society of Hematology ASH annual meeting abstract December 2012 686 32765 2 . Because Btk plays a central role as a mediator in multiple signal transduction pathways inhibitors of Btk are of great interest as anti inflammatory and or anti cancer agents Mohamed et al. 228 58 73 2009 Pan 21 357 362 2008 Rokosz et al. 12 883 903 2008 Uckun et al. 7 624 632 2007 Lou et al. 55 10 4539 4550 2012 .

Small molecule inhibitors of Btk are being developed for anti inflammatory and anticancer therapy. Ibrutinib PCI 32765 See US7514444B2 and related documents for examples US2012053189A1 WO 2011153514 WO 2011046964 US2010254905A1 WO2010009342 WO2008121742 WO2008054827 US20080139582 US20080076921 U.S. Pat. No. 7 718 662B1 WO2007087068 US20100035841 is a first in class of Btk inhibitor currently undergoing multiple clinical trials in relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma MCL and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia CLL . Another Btk inhibitor entered clinical trials is AVL 292 See for example US 20100249092 US20100029610 US2010016296 US20120077832 WO 2011090760 WO 2010028236 WO 2009158571 WO2009051822 WO2010123870 . Ono pharmaceuticals and Mannkind Corporation have been doing clinical trials with their small molecular Btk inhibitors respectively See for example ONO 4059 WO2011152351 WO2007136790A2 .

Other Btk inhibitors are also known. See for example US2012 0232054 LOCUS PHARMACEUTICALS INC. WO2010126960 LOCUS PHARMACEUTICALS INC. WO 2011 162515 HANMI HOLDINGS CO. LTD WO2012135801 UNIVERSITY OF UTAH RESEARCH FOUNDATION Kim et al. 21 6258 6263 2011 Pfizer US8084620B2 BMS WO2002050071 WO2008116064 WO2010011837 WO 2011159857 BMS US2012058996A1 US2012082702A1 US20100160303 BMS US2012129852A1 BMS WO 2011019780 BMS WO2011029043 WO2011029046 Biogen Idec U.S. Pat. No. 7 393 848 CGI US20060178367 US20060183746 CGI EP2068849 CGI WO 2005005429 WO 2005014599 WO 2005047290 WO 2006053121 WO2008033834 WO 2008033858 WO 2006099075 WO 2008033854 WO 2008033857 WO 2009039397 CGI WO 2009137596 WO 2010056875 WO 2010068788 WO 2010068806 WO 2010068810 CGI GENENTECH WO 2011140488 WO 2012030990 WO 2012031004 GILEAD GENENTECH US2012040961A1 DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE WO 2005011597 WO 2008045627 WO 2008144253 IRM LLC WO 2007140222 WO 2013008095 NOVARTIS WO 2012170976A2 Merck WO2012135944A1 PHARMASCIENCE US2010144705A1 US20120028981A1 PRINCIPIA BIOPHARMA WO 2010065898A2 WO 2012158795A1 WO 2012158764A1 WO 2012158810A1 PRINCIPIA BIOPHARMA US20090318448A1 US20100016301 US2009105209A1 US20100222325 US20100004231 ROCHE WO 2012156334A1 WO 2012020008 WO 2010122038 WO 2010006970 WO 2010006947 WO 2010000633 WO 2009077334 WO 2009098144 ROCHE WO 2006065946 WO 2007027594 WO 2007027729 VERTEX .

WO 2007 026720 A1 discloses that a ring fused pyrazole compound of formula A wherein n represents 2 or 3 A represents the formula O or the like B represents a Calkylene group or the like C represents a single bond or the formula O R represents a hydrogen atom a pyrrolidinyl group or the like R Rand Rindependently represents a hydrogen atom a halogen atom or the like D Drepresents the formula CH CH or the like E represents the formula O or NH or the like G represents a C1 10 alkylene group or the like and Rrepresents a hydrogen atom a phenyl group or the like is useful as an Lck kinase inhibitor 

The invention provides methods and compositions for inhibiting Btk and treating disease associated with undesirable Btk activity Btk related diseases .

p is 0 or an integer of 1 2 wherein when p is 0 m is non zero and when p is more than 1 each Rand each Rmay be different 

R R R R and Rare each independently H halogen heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl alkynyl CN NRR OR COR COR CONRR C NR NRR NRCOR NRCONRR NRCOR SOR NRSONRR or NRSOR wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R wherein Rand R or Rand R or Rand R or Rand Rwhen p is 2 together with the atoms to which they are attached can form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R 

R Rand Rare each independently H heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein Rand R and or Rand R together with the atom s to which they are attached each can form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R 

Ris halogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl oxo CN OR NR R COR COR CONR R C NR NR R NR COR NR CONR R NR COR SOR SOaryl NR SONR R or NR SOR wherein R R and R are independently hydrogen halogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl wherein R and R and or R and R together with the atoms to which they are attached can form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings.

 b Ris H halogen alkoxy heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R 

 f Rand R together with the atoms to which they are attached form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R.

The invention includes all combinations of the recited particular embodiments such as a i supra as if each combination had been laboriously separately recited.

 i S D is a double bond and Rand Rare absent Ris H halogen alkoxy heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R and Ris halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy 

 iii S D is a double bond and Rand Rare absent p is 1 and m is 0 or 1 or 2 A is phenyl and each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy see formula II 

 iv S D is a double bond and Rand Rare absent and Rand R together with the atoms to which they are attached form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R.

 v S D is a double bond and Rand Rare absent Rand R together with the atoms to which they are attached form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R A is phenyl and each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy.

 vi S D is a double bond and Rand Rare absent Rand R together with the atoms to which they are attached form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R p is 1 and m 0 or 1 or 2 A is phenyl each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy and the R Rring is of formula 

 vii S D is a double bond and Rand Rare absent Rand R together with the atoms to which they are attached form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R p is 1 and m is 0 or 1 or 2 A is phenyl each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy and the R Rring is of formula 

 viii S D is a single bond p is 1 and m is 0 1 or 2 A is phenyl each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy see formula IV 

 ix S D is a single bond p is 1 and m is 0 1 or 2 A is phenyl each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy and Ris H halogen alkoxy heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R and Ris halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy 

 x S D is a single bond p is 0 and Rand Rare absent A is phenyl and each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy see formula V 

 xi S D is a single bond p is 0 and Rand Rare absent A is phenyl and each Ris independently halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy and Ris H halogen alkoxy heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R and Ris halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy.

In particular embodiments the invention provides compounds of formula II III IV and V stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein substituents are as defined herein 

The invention also provides compounds of the examples herein or of Table I II or III below stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The invention also provides subject compounds having a Btk inhibiting activity corresponding to a IC50 of 10 uM or less in the BTK KINASE ASSAY.

The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a subject compound in unit dosage form and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

The invention also provides combinations comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a subject compound and a different agent therapeutically active against an autoimmune and or inflammatory disease.

The invention also provides methods treating a Btk related disease or disease associated with undesirable Btk activity particularly an allergic disease an autoimmune disease e.g. rheumatoid arthritis an inflammatory disease or cancer e.g. a B cell proliferative disorder such as chronic lymphocytic lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma mantle cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia which methods generally comprise administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a subject compound an N oxide thereof or a prodrug thereof and optionally detecting a resultant amelioration of disease or symptom thereof or Bkt inhibition.

The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a subject compound in unit dosage administrable form and methods of inducing autophagy comprising administering to a person in need thereof an effective amount of a subject compound or composition.

The invention also provides the subject compounds for use as a medicament and use of the subject compounds in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a Btk related disease.

Disclosed herein are compounds that can inhibit tyrosine kinases such as Btk Blk Bmx EGFR ERBB2 ERBB4 Itk Jak3 Tec and Txk kinases.

The following words phrases and symbols are generally intended to have the meanings as set forth below except to the extent that the context in which they are used indicates otherwise. The following abbreviations and terms have the indicated meanings throughout.

The term alkyl refers to a hydrocarbon group selected from linear and branched saturated hydrocarbon groups of 1 18 or 1 12 or 1 6 carbon atoms. Examples of the alkyl group include methyl ethyl propyl or n propyl n Pr 2 propyl or isopropyl i Pr 1 butyl or n butyl n Bu 2 methyl 1 propyl or isobutyl i Bu i methylpropyl or s butyl s Bu and 1 1 dimethylethyl or t butyl t Bu . Other examples of the alkyl group include 1 pentyl 2 pentyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 butyl 1 hexyl 2 hexyl 3 hexyl 2 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 2 pentyl 4 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 3 pentyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl and 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl groups.

Lower alkyl means 1 8 preferably 1 6 more preferably 1 4 carbon atoms lower alkenyl or alkynyl means 2 8 2 6 or 2 4 carbon atoms.

The term alkenyl refers to a hydrocarbon group selected from linear and branched hydrocarbon groups comprising at least one C C double bond and of 2 18 or 2 12 or 2 6 carbon atoms. Examples of the alkenyl group may be selected from ethenyl or vinyl prop 1 enyl prop 2 enyl 2 methylprop 1 enyl but 1 enyl but 2 enyl but 3 enyl buta 1 3 dienyl 2 methylbuta 1 3 diene hex 1 enyl hex 2 enyl hex 3 enyl hex 4 enyl and hexa 1 3 dienyl groups.

The term alkynyl refers to a hydrocarbon group selected from linear and branched hydrocarbon group comprising at least one C C triple bond and of 2 18 or 2 12 or 2 6 carbon atoms. Examples of the alkynyl group include ethynyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl propargyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl and 3 butynyl groups.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a hydrocarbon group selected from saturated and partially unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon groups comprising monocyclic and polycyclic e.g. bicyclic and tricyclic groups. For example the cycloalkyl group may be of 3 12 or 3 8 or 3 6 carbon atoms. Even further for example the cycloalkyl group may be a monocyclic group of 3 12 or 3 8 or 3 6 carbon atoms. Examples of the monocyclic cycloalkyl group include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl and cyclododecyl groups. Examples of the bicyclic cycloalkyl groups include those having 7 12 ring atoms arranged as a bicycle ring selected from 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 6 and 6 6 ring systems or as a bridged bicyclic ring selected from bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. The ring may be saturated or have at least one double bond i.e. partially unsaturated but is not fully conjugated and is not aromatic as aromatic is defined herein.

The term Aryl herein refers to a group selected from 5 and 6 membered carbocyclic aromatic rings for example phenyl bicyclic ring systems such as 7 12 membered bicyclic ring systems wherein at least one ring is carbocyclic and aromatic selected for example from naphthalene indane and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline and tricyclic ring systems such as 10 15 membered tricyclic ring systems wherein at least one ring is carbocyclic and aromatic for example fluorene.

For example the aryl group is selected from 5 and 6 membered carbocyclic aromatic rings fused to a 5 to 7 membered cycloalkyl or heterocyclic ring optionally comprising at least one heteroatom selected from N O and S provided that the point of attachment is at the carbocyclic aromatic ring when the carbocyclic aromatic ring is fused with a heterocyclic ring and the point of attachment can be at the carbocyclic aromatic ring or at the cycloalkyl group when the carbocyclic aromatic ring is fused with a cycloalkyl group. Bivalent radicals formed from substituted benzene derivatives and having the free valences at ring atoms are named as substituted phenylene radicals. Bivalent radicals derived from univalent polycyclic hydrocarbon radicals whose names end in yl by removal of one hydrogen atom from the carbon atom with the free valence are named by adding idene to the name of the corresponding univalent radical e.g. a naphthyl group with two points of attachment is termed naphthylidene. Aryl however does not encompass or overlap with heteroaryl separately defined below. Hence if one or more carbocyclic aromatic rings are fused with a heterocyclic aromatic ring the resulting ring system is heteroaryl not aryl as defined herein.

5 to 7 membered aromatic monocyclic rings comprising 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S with the remaining ring atoms being carbon 

8 to 12 membered bicyclic rings comprising 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S with the remaining ring atoms being carbon and wherein at least one ring is aromatic and at least one heteroatom is present in the aromatic ring and

11 to 14 membered tricyclic rings comprising 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S with the remaining ring atoms being carbon and wherein at least one ring is aromatic and at least one heteroatom is present in an aromatic ring.

For example the heteroaryl group includes a 5 to 7 membered heterocyclic aromatic ring fused to a 5 to 7 membered cycloalkyl ring. For such fused bicyclic heteroaryl ring systems wherein only one of the rings comprises at least one heteroatom the point of attachment may be at the heteroaromatic ring or at the cycloalkyl ring.

When the total number of S and O atoms in the heteroaryl group exceeds 1 those heteroatoms are not adjacent to one another. In some embodiments the total number of S and O atoms in the heteroaryl group is not more than 2. In some embodiments the total number of S and O atoms in the aromatic heterocycle is not more than 1.

Examples of the heteroaryl group include but are not limited to as numbered from the linkage position assigned priority 1 pyridyl such as 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl or 4 pyridyl cinnolinyl pyrazinyl 2 4 pyrimidinyl 3 5 pyrimidinyl 2 4 imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl isoxazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolyl tetrazolyl thienyl triazinyl benzothienyl furyl benzofuryl benzoimidazolyl indolyl isoindolyl indolinyl phthalazinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl pyrrolyl triazolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl pyrazolyl pyrrolopyridinyl such as 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 5 yl pyrazolopyridinyl such as 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 5 yl benzoxazolyl such as benzo d oxazol 6 yl pteridinyl purinyl 1 oxa 2 3 diazolyl 1 oxa 2 4 diazolyl 1 oxa 2 5 diazolyl 1 oxa 3 4 diazolyl 1 thia 2 3 diazolyl 1 thia 2 4 diazolyl 1 thia 2 5 diazolyl 1 thia 3 4 diazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl furopyridinyl benzothiazolyl such as benzo d thiazol 6 yl indazolyl such as 1H indazol 5 yl and 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroisoquinoline.

The term heterocyclic or heterocycle or heterocyclyl refers to a ring selected from 4 to 12 membered monocyclic bicyclic and tricyclic saturated and partially unsaturated rings comprising at least one carbon atoms in addition to 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from oxygen sulfur and nitrogen. Heterocycle also refers to a 5 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring comprising at least one heteroatom selected from N O and S fused with 5 6 and or 7 membered cycloalkyl carbocyclic aromatic or heteroaromatic ring provided that the point of attachment is at the heterocyclic ring when the heterocyclic ring is fused with a carbocyclic aromatic or a heteroaromatic ring and that the point of attachment can be at the cycloalkyl or heterocyclic ring when the heterocyclic ring is fused with cycloalkyl.

 Heterocycle also refers to an aliphatic spirocyclic ring comprising at least one heteroatom selected from N O and S provided that the point of attachment is at the heterocyclic ring. The rings may be saturated or have at least one double bond i.e. partially unsaturated . The heterocycle may be substituted with oxo. The point of the attachment may be carbon or heteroatom in the heterocyclic ring. A heterocyle is not a heteroaryl as defined herein.

Examples of the heterocycle include but not limited to as numbered from the linkage position assigned priority 1 1 pyrrolidinyl 2 pyrrolidinyl 2 4 imidazolidinyl 2 3 pyrazolidinyl 1 piperidinyl 2 piperidinyl 3 piperidinyl 4 piperidinyl 2 5 piperazinyl pyranyl 2 morpholinyl 3 morpholinyl oxiranyl aziridinyl thiiranyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl 1 2 dithietanyl 1 3 dithietanyl dihydropyridinyl tetrahydropyridinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl homopiperidinyl azepanyl oxepanyl thiepanyl 1 4 oxathianyl 1 4 dioxepanyl 1 4 oxathiepanyl 1 4 oxaazepanyl 1 4 dithiepanyl 1 4 thiazepanyl and 1 4 diazepane 1 4 dithianyl 1 4 azathianyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl dihydrothienyl dihydropyranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl 1 pyrrolinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl 1 4 dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl pyrimidinonyl 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl.

Substituted heterocycle also includes ring systems substituted with one or more oxo moieties such as piperidinyl N oxide morpholinyl N oxide 1 oxo 1 thiomorpholinyl and 1 1 dioxo 1 thiomorpholinyl.

Substituents are selected from halogen R OR O NR N OR NR R SR SiR R R OC O R C O R COR CONR R OC O NR R NR C O R NR C O NR R NR SONR NR COR NH C NH NH NR C NH NH NH C NH NR S O R SOR SONR R NR SOR CN and NO N CH Ph perfluoro C1 C4 alkoxy and perfluoro C1 C4 alkyl in a number ranging from zero to three with those groups having zero one or two substituents being particularly preferred. R R and R each independently refer to hydrogen unsubstituted C1 C8 alkyl and heteroalkyl unsubstituted aryl aryl substituted with one to three halogens unsubstituted alkyl alkoxy or thioalkoxy groups or aryl C1 C4 alkyl groups. When R and R are attached to the same nitrogen atom they can be combined with the nitrogen atom to form a 5 6 or 7 membered ring. Hence NR R includes 1 pyrrolidinyl and 4 morpholinyl alkyl includes groups such as trihaloalkyl e.g. CFand CHCF and when the aryl group is 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalene it may be substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted C3 C7 spirocycloalkyl group. The C3 C7 spirocycloalkyl group may be substituted in the same manner as defined herein for cycloalkyl .

Preferred substituents are selected from halogen R OR O NR R SR SiR R R OC O R C O R COR CONR R OC O NR R NR C O R NR COR NR SONR R S O R SOR SONR R NR SOR CN and NO perfluoro C1 C4 alkoxy and perfluoro C1 C4 alkyl where R and R are as defined above.

The term fused ring herein refers to a polycyclic ring system e.g. a bicyclic or tricyclic ring system in which two rings share only two ring atoms and one bond in common. Examples of fused rings may comprise a fused bicyclic cycloalkyl ring such as those having from 7 to 12 ring atoms arranged as a bicyclic ring selected from 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 6 and 6 6 ring systems as mentioned above a fused bicyclic aryl ring such as 7 to 12 membered bicyclic aryl ring systems as mentioned above a fused tricyclic aryl ring such as 10 to 15 membered tricyclic aryl ring systems mentioned above a fused bicyclic heteroaryl ring such as 8 to 12 membered bicyclic heteroaryl rings as mentioned above a fused tricyclic heteroaryl ring such as 11 to 14 membered tricyclic heteroaryl rings as mentioned above and a fused bicyclic or tricyclic heterocyclyl ring as mentioned above.

The compounds may contain an asymmetric center and may thus exist as enantiomers. Where the compounds possess two or more asymmetric centers they may additionally exist as diastereomers. Enantiomers and diastereomers fall within the broader class of stereoisomers. All such possible stereoisomers as substantially pure resolved enantiomers racemic mixtures thereof as well as mixtures of diastereomers are intended to be included. All stereoisomers of the compounds and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are intended to be included. Unless specifically mentioned otherwise reference to one isomer applies to any of the possible isomers. Whenever the isomeric composition is unspecified all possible isomers are included.

The term substantially pure means that the target stereoisomer contains no more than 35 such as no more than 30 further such as no more than 25 even further such as no more than 20 by weight of any other stereoisomer s . In some embodiments the term substantially pure means that the target stereoisomer contains no more than 10 for example no more than 5 such as no more than 1 by weight of any other stereoisomer s .

When compounds contain olefin double bonds unless specified otherwise such double bonds are meant to include both E and Z geometric isomers.

Some of the compounds may exist with different points of attachment of hydrogen referred to as tautomers. For example compounds including carbonyl CHC O groups keto forms may undergo tautomerism to form hydroxyl CH C OH groups enol forms . Both keto and enol forms individually as well as mixtures thereof are also intended to be included where applicable.

It may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. a substantially pure enantiomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds. New York John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 Lochmuller C. H. et al. Chromatographic resolution of enantiomers Selective review. J. Chromatogr. 113 3 1975 pp. 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Wainer Irving W. Ed. Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology. New York Marcel Dekker Inc. 1993.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to salts with inorganic acids selected for example from hydrochlorates phosphates diphosphates hydrobromates sulfates sulfinates and nitrates as well as salts with organic acids selected for example from malates maleates fumarates tartrates succinates citrates lactates methanesulfonates p toluenesulfonates 2 hydroxyethylsulfonates benzoates salicylates stearates alkanoates such as acetate and salts with HOOC CH n COOH wherein n is selected from 0 to 4. Similarly examples of pharmaceutically acceptable cations include but are not limited to sodium potassium calcium aluminum lithium and ammonium.

In addition if a compound is obtained as an acid addition salt the free base can be obtained by basifying a solution of the acid salt. Conversely if the product is a free base an addition salt such as a pharmaceutically acceptable addition salt may be produced by dissolving the free base in a suitable organic solvent and treating the solution with an acid in accordance with conventional procedures for preparing acid addition salts from base compounds. Those skilled in the art will recognize various synthetic methodologies that may be used without undue experimentation to prepare non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable addition salts.

 Treating treat or treatment refers to administering at least one compound and or at least one stereoisomer thereof and or at least one pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject in recognized need thereof that has for example cancer.

An effective amount refers to an amount of at least one compound and or at least one stereoisomer thereof and or at least one pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof effective to treat a disease or disorder in a subject and that will elicit to some significant extent the biological or medical response of a tissue system animal or human that is being sought such as when administered is sufficient to prevent development of or alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the disease and its severity and the age weight etc. of the mammal to be treated.

The term at least one substituent includes for example from 1 to 4 such as from 1 to 3 further as 1 or 2 substituents. For example at least one substituent R herein includes from 1 to 4 such as from 1 to 3 further as 1 or 2 substituents selected from the list of Ras described herein.

R and R R R and R are each independently H halogen heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl alkynyl CN NRR OR COR COR CONRR C NR NRR NRCOR NRCONRR NRCOR SOR NRSONRR or NRSOR wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R.

R Rand Rare each independently H heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein Rand R and or Rand R together with the atom s to which they are attached each can form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R. In particular embodiments R Rand Rare each independently H lower alkyl or lower alkoxy.

Ris halogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl oxo CN OR NR R COR COR CONR R C NR NR R NR COR NR CONR R NR COR SOR SOaryl NR SONR R or NR SOR wherein R R and R are independently hydrogen halogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl wherein R and R and or R and R together with the atoms to which they are attached can form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings.

Rin particular embodiments is an optionally hetero optionally substituted hydrocarbon selected from heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R wherein cyclic structures are preferably 3 8 membered ring structures comprising 0 3 heteroatoms of N S or O and the aryl is preferably a 5 or 6 membered aromatic ring comprising 0 3 heteroatoms of N S or O wherein the hydrocarbon is preferably a C1 C12 or C1 C8 hydrocarbon.

Rin particular embodiments is heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl heteroaryl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl aryl and saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with at least one substituent R.

Rin particular embodiments is lower alkyl or alkenyl optionally cyclic and optionally substituted particularly with halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy and comprising 0 3 heteroatoms of N S or O. Examples include methylcyclopropyl cyclohexyl cyclopentyl methoxyethyl halide methyl ethyl propyl and butyl. Other exemplary Rmoieties include 5 membered aromatic rings like pyrrole pyrazole imidazole furan and hydrogenations thereof e.g. pyrrolidine pyrazolidine imidazolidine tetrahydrofuran and 6 membered rings like benzene phenyl pyridine pyran diazines triazines and tetrazines and hydrogenations thereof e.g. cyclohexane di and tetra hydropyridine piperidine tetrahydropyran etc. each of which may be substituted particularly with halogen lower alkyl or lower alkoxy.

Preferred 5 membered aromatic rings include pyrrole pyrazole imidazole furan and 6 membered rings include benzene phenyl pyridine pyran diazines triazines and tetrazines.

n is 0 1 2 3 or 4 wherein when n is more than 1 each Rmay be different. In particular embodiments n is 0 i.e. A is unsubstituted .

Ris halogen alkyl S alkyl CN NRR OR COR COR CONRR C NR NRR NRCOR NRCONRR NRCOR SOR NRSONRRor NRSOR wherein R Rand Rare each independently H heteroalkyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein Rand R and or Rand R together with the atom s to which they are attached each can form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R.

Rin particular embodiments is halogen alkyl S alkyl CN NRR OR COR COR CONRR C NR NRR NRCOR NRCONRR NRCOR SOR NRSONRR or NRSOR preferably wherein the alkyl including S alkyl is lower alkyl and R Rand Rare each independently H lower alkyl or lower alkoxy.

each W is independently CH or C O wherein if m is 2 3 or 4 preferably no more than one W is carbonyl 

p is 0 and Rand Rare absent or an integer of 1 2 wherein when p is 0 m is non zero and when p is more than 1 each Rand each Rmay be different generally p m is 1 2 3 or 4 preferably 1 2 or 3 and in particular embodiments 1.

In particular embodiments p is 2 and m is 0 or 1 p is 1 and m is 0 or 1 or 0 1 or 2 or p is 0 and m is 1 or 2 or 1 2 or 3 .

Rand R or Rand R or Rand R or Rand R when p is 2 together with the atoms to which they are attached can form a ring selected from cycloalkyl saturated or unsaturated heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl rings optionally substituted with at least one substituent R. These rings are generally 4 8 membered and include 5 membered aromatic rings like pyrrole pyrazole imidazole furan and hydrogenations thereof e.g. pyrrolidine pyrazolidine imidazolidine tetrahydrofuran and 6 membered rings like benzene phenyl pyridine pyran diazines triazines and tetrazines and hydrogenations thereof e.g. cyclohexane di and tetra hydropyridine piperidine tetrahydropyran etc. each of which may be unsubstituted or substituted particularly with halogen lower alkyl lower alkoxy COR or NR COR wherein R R are substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl.

Rand R or Rand R or Rand R when p is 2 in particular embodiments form piperidine azacycloheptanyl or azetidine optionally substituted particularly N substituted with moieties such as benzyl acyl acryloyl etc.

Rand R in particular embodiments together with the atoms to which they are attached form a ring of formula 

Rand Rin particular embodiments form phenyl piperidine azacycloheptenyl pyrrolidine optionally substituted particularly N substituted with moieties such as benzyl acyl acryloyl methylamine acryloyl etc.

The invention includes all combinations of the recited particular and preferred embodiments as if each combination had been laboriously separately recited. For example in particular embodiments supra A is phenyl W is CH L is O S D is a single bond m is 1 n is 0 p is 1 Ris phenyl Ris absent Ris H and Rand Rare H yielding the combination 

R supra includes N containing C1 C8 alkyl N containing C3 C8 cycloalkyl and phenyl for example methylamine aniline azetidine pyrrolidine piperidine azacycloheptenyl each optionally substituted particularly N substituted with moieties such as benzyl acyl acryloyl substitued acryloyl propiolyl substituted propiolyl etc. such as structure combinations 

In particular examples Ris 1 acryloylpiperidin 4 yl e.g. compound 27 or 1 but 2 ynoyl piperidin 4 yl e.g. compound 176 .

The invention also provides all the compounds of the examples herein and of Table I II and III stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may be employed alone or in combination with at least one other therapeutic agent for treatment. In some embodiments the compounds stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof can be used in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent. The at least one additional therapeutic agent can be for example selected from anti hyperproliferative anti cancer and chemotherapeutic agents. The compound and or one pharmaceutically acceptable salt disclosed herein may be administered with the at least one other therapeutic agent in a single dosage form or as a separate dosage form. When administered as a separate dosage form the at least one other therapeutic agent may be administered prior to at the same time as or following administration of the compound and or one pharmaceutically acceptable salt disclosed herein.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Suitable chemotherapeutic agents can be for example selected from agents that induce apoptosis polynucleotides e.g. ribozymes polypeptides e.g. enzymes drugs biological mimetics alkaloids alkylating agents antitumor antibiotics antimetabolites hormones platinum compounds monoclonal antibodies conjugated with anticancer drugs toxins and or radionuclides biological response modifiers e.g. interferons such as IFN a and interleukins such as IL 2 adoptive immunotherapy agents hematopoietic growth factors agents that induce tumor cell differentiation e.g. all trans retinoic acid gene therapy reagents antisense therapy reagents and nucleotides tumor vaccines and inhibitors of angiogenesis.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sunitinib SUTENT Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib NEXAVAR Bayer Irinotecan CAMPTOSAR Pfizer and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines such as altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins such as bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin such as the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 and its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins such as cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin and the synthetic analogs thereof such as KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin such as calicheamicin gamma 1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin such as dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminol evulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes such as T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

The chemotherapeutic agent can also be selected for example from i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides such as those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

The chemotherapeutic agent can also be selected for example from therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with a subject compound and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may for example be selected from alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

Also provided is a composition comprising a subject compound and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The composition comprising a subject compound and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof can be administered in various known manners such as orally topically rectally parenterally by inhalation spray or via an implanted reservoir although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the particular host and nature and severity of the conditions for which the active ingredient is being administered. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous intracutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraarticular intraarterial intrasynovial intrasternal intrathecal intralesional and intracranial injection or infusion techniques. The compositions disclosed herein may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art.

The subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof can be administered orally in solid dosage forms such as capsules tablets troches drag es granules and powders or in liquid dosage forms such as elixirs syrups emulsions dispersions and suspensions. The subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof disclosed herein can also be administered parenterally in sterile liquid dosage forms such as dispersions suspensions or solutions. Other dosages forms that can also be used to administer the subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof disclosed herein as an ointment cream drops transdermal patch or powder for topical administration as an ophthalmic solution or suspension formation i.e. eye drops for ocular administration as an aerosol spray or powder composition for inhalation or intranasal administration or as a cream ointment spray or suppository for rectal or vaginal administration.

Gelatin capsules containing the compound and or the at least one pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof disclosed herein and powdered carriers such as lactose starch cellulose derivatives magnesium stearate stearic acid and the like can also be used. Similar diluents can be used to make compressed tablets. Both tablets and capsules can be manufactured as sustained release products to provide for continuous release of medication over a period of time. Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste and protect the tablet from the atmosphere or enteric coated for selective disintegration in the gastrointestinal tract.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration can further comprise at least one agent selected from coloring and flavoring agents to increase patient acceptance.

In general water a suitable oil saline aqueous dextrose glucose and related sugar solutions and glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene gycols can be examples of suitable carriers for parenteral solutions. Solutions for parenteral administration may comprise a water soluble salt of the at least one compound describe herein at least one suitable stabilizing agent and if necessary at least one buffer substance. Antioxidizing agents such as sodium bisulfite sodium sulfite or ascorbic acid either alone or combined can be examples of suitable stabilizing agents. Citric acid and its salts and sodium EDTA can also be used as examples of suitable stabilizing agents. In addition parenteral solutions can further comprise at least one preservative selected for example from benzalkonium chloride methyl and propylparaben and chlorobutanol.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is for example selected from carriers that are compatible with active ingredients of the composition and in some embodiments capable of stabilizing the active ingredients and not deleterious to the subject to be treated. For example solubilizing agents such as cyclodextrins which can form specific more soluble complexes with the at least one compound and or at least one pharmaceutically acceptable salt disclosed herein can be utilized as pharmaceutical excipients for delivery of the active ingredients. Examples of other carriers include colloidal silicon dioxide magnesium stearate cellulose sodium lauryl sulfate and pigments such as D C Yellow 10. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are described in A. Osol a standard reference text in the art.

The subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof disclosed herein can further be examined for efficacy in treating Btk related diseases by in vivo assays. For example the compound and or the at least one pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof disclosed herein can be administered to an animal e.g. a mouse model having Btk related diseases and its therapeutic effects can be accessed. Positive results in one or more of such tests are sufficient to increase the scientific storehouse of knowledge and hence sufficient to demonstrate practical utility of the compounds and or salts tested. Based on the results an appropriate dosage range and administration route for animals such as humans can also be determined.

For administration by inhalation the subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may be conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or nebulisers. The subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may also be delivered as powders which may be formulated and the powder composition may be inhaled with the aid of an insufflation powder inhaler device. One exemplary delivery system for inhalation can be metered dose inhalation MDI aerosol which may be formulated as a suspension or solution of a subject compound and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof disclosed herein in at least one suitable propellant selected for example from fluorocarbons and hydrocarbons.

For ocular administration an ophthalmic preparation may be formulated with an appropriate weight percentage of a solution or suspension of the subject compound and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof in an appropriate ophthalmic vehicle such that the subject compound and stereoisomers thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof is maintained in contact with the ocular surface for a sufficient time period to allow the compound to penetrate the corneal and internal regions of the eye.

Useful pharmaceutical dosage forms for administration of the subject compounds and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof disclosed herein include but are not limited to hard and soft gelatin capsules tablets parenteral injectables and oral suspensions.

The dosage administered will be dependent on factors such as the age health and weight of the recipient the extent of disease type of concurrent treatment if any frequency of treatment and the nature of the effect desired. In general a daily dosage of the active ingredient can vary for example from 0.1 to 2000 milligrams per day. For example 10 500 milligrams once or multiple times per day may be effective to obtain the desired results.

In some embodiments a large number of unit capsules can be prepared by filling standard two piece hard gelatin capsules each with for example 100 milligrams of the subject compound and stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof disclosed herein in powder 150 milligrams of lactose 50 milligrams of cellulose and 6 milligrams magnesium stearate.

In some embodiments a mixture of the compound stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof a digestible oil such as soybean oil cottonseed oil or olive oil can be prepared and injected by means of a positive displacement pump into gelatin to form soft gelatin capsules containing 100 milligrams of the active ingredient. The capsules are washed and dried.

In some embodiments a large number of tablets can be prepared by conventional procedures so that the dosage unit comprises for example 100 milligrams of the compound stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof 0.2 milligrams of colloidal silicon dioxide 5 milligrams of magnesium stearate 275 milligrams of microcrystalline cellulose 11 milligrams of starch and 98.8 milligrams of lactose. Appropriate coatings may be applied to increase palatability or delay absorption.

In some embodiments a parenteral composition suitable for administration by injection can be prepared by stirring 1.5 by weight of the compound and or at least an enantiomer a diastereomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof disclosed herein in 10 by volume propylene glycol. The solution is made to the expected volume with water for injection and sterilized.

In some embodiment an aqueous suspension can be prepared for oral administration. For example each 5 milliliters of an aqueous suspension comprising 100 milligrams of finely divided compound stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof 100 milligrams of sodium carboxymethyl cellulose 5 milligrams of sodium benzoate 1.0 grams of sorbitol solution U.S.P. and 0.025 milliliters of vanillin can be used.

The same dosage forms can generally be used when the compound stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are administered stepwise or in conjunction with at least one other therapeutic agent. When drugs are administered in physical combination the dosage form and administration route should be selected depending on the compatibility of the combined drugs. Thus the term coadministration is understood to include the administration of at least two agents concomitantly or sequentially or alternatively as a fixed dose combination of the at least two active components.

The compounds stereoisomers thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof disclosed herein can be administered as the sole active ingredient or in combination with at least one second active ingredient selected for example from other active ingredients known to be useful for treating Btk related diseases in a patient.

It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and scope of the appended claims. All publications patents and patent applications cited herein including citations therein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The subject compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof can be prepared from a commercially available starting materials b known starting materials which may be prepared as described in literature procedures c new intermediates described in the schemes and experimental procedures herein. In making the compounds of the invention the order of synthetic steps may be varied to increase the yield of desired product. Some of compounds in this invention may be generated by the methods as shown in the following reaction schemes and the description thereof.

Scheme I above shows a general synthetic route that is used for preparing the compound S 6 of this invention where A R R R R L and n are as described herein. Reaction of methyl ketone S 1 in acetals of N N dialkylformamides or acetals of N N dialkylacetamide at reflux temperature for several hours afforded 3 dialkylamino 1 aryl heteroaryl or alkyl 2 propen 1 one S 2. Intermediate S 3 may be prepared by methods substantially similar to those described in International Patent Publication No. WO 2001 019829 and No. WO 2011 046964. The reaction of intermediate S 3 and an appropriately substituted 3 dialkylamino 1 aryl heteroaryl or alkyl 2 propen 1 one S 2 in weak acid such as acetic acid or in an inert solvent such as toluene acetonitrile or dimethoxyethane with catalytic acid at 80 C. to reflux temperature for several hours afforded the nitrile compound S 4. Reduction of the pyrimidine ring with reducing agents such as sodium borohydride NaBH Pd C or NaBHfollowed with Pd C gave tetrahydropyrazolopyrimidine S 5 and subsequent hydrolysis of nitrile under alkaline condition such as NaOH or KOH plus HOin alcohol or under acid condition such as HPO HSO or BF.HOAc yielded the carboxamide S 6.

Scheme II describes a general synthetic route to prepare carboxamide S 13 where A R R R R L n and p are as described herein. The protected hydrazine S 7 known can be conveniently prepared by the methods as described in the literature J. Med. Chem. 1992 35 2392 . Deprotection with acid followed by condensation of this building block with intermediate S 10 also described in International Patent Publication No. WO 2001 019829 and No. WO 2011 046964 in alkaline solvent such as TEA ethanol afforded pyrazole ester S 9. The pyrazole alcohol S 11 can be prepared from an ester S 9 through a reductive process. The reducing agents which may be used for this process include but are not limited to LiBH NaBHand Super Hydride. Intramolecular N alkylation or reductive amination gave the nitriles S 12 which was converted to carboxamide S 13 by the same methods as described in Scheme I.

Scheme IV above shows general synthetic routes that have been used for preparing compounds S 19 and S 20 of this invention where A R R R R L and n are as described herein. Hydrolysis of nitrile S 3 afforded carboxamide S 18 by the same methods as described in Scheme I. The cyclization of pyrazole carboxamide S 18 or pyrazole nitrile S 3 with the commercially available or prepared haloketone S 23 gave regioisomers S 19 and S 20 or S 21 and S 22. The nitriles S 21 and S 22 were hydrolyzed to afford carboxamides S 19 and S 20 according to Scheme I.

Scheme V above shows general synthetic routes that have been used for preparing compound S 27 of this invention where A RR R R R L m and n are as described herein. The pyrazole S 25 was prepared by cyclization of intermediate S 10 with the commercially available or prepared hydrazine S 24 in alcohol according to one of steps in Scheme II. The intramolecular cyclization of intermediate S 25 was performed with the process included but not limited to Cu catalytic coupling Buchwald reaction SN2 reaction or reductive amination. Finally nitrile S 26 was hydrolyzed to afford carboxamide S 27 according to Scheme I. Alternatively nucleophilic substitution followed by intramolecular cyclization afforded carboxamide S 27.

Scheme VI above shows a general synthetic route that has been used for preparing compound S 30 of this invention where A R R R R L m and n are as described herein.

The intramolecular amide S 30 was prepared by heating the mixture of nitrile S 3 or carboxamide S 18 and ester S 29 in inert solvent such as DMF with presence of base such as KCOand TEA.

Scheme VII above shows a general synthetic route that has been used for preparing compound S 32 of this invention where A R R R L and n are as described herein. The amide S 32 was prepared by heating the mixture of nitrile S 3 or carboxamide S 18 and ketoester S 31 in weak acid such as acetic acid or in an inert solvent such as toluene acetonitrile or dimethoxyethane with catalytic acid.

Scheme VIII above shows a general synthetic route that has been used for preparing compound S 36 of this invention when A R R R R L W m and n are as described herein. The intermolecular cyclization of nitrile S 3 or carboxamide S 18 and commercially available or prepared intermediate S 33 was performed in inert solvent such as DMF with presence of base such as KCOand TEA to afford compound S 36. Alternatively condensation of nitrile S 3 or carboxamide S 18 with dialdehyde S 34 followed by reduction yielded compound S 36.

The examples below are intended to be purely exemplary and should not be considered to be limiting in any way. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used for example amounts temperature etc. but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise temperature is in degrees Centigrade. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Sigma Aldrich Alfa Aesar or TCL and were used without further purification unless indicated otherwise.

Unless indicated otherwise the reactions set forth below were performed under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube in anhydrous solvents the reaction flasks were fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe and glassware was oven dried and or heat dried.

Preparative HPLC was conducted on a column 150 21.2 mm ID 5 m Gemini NX C18 at a flow rate of 20 ml min injection volume 2 ml at room temperature and UV Detection at 214 nm and 254 nm.

A solution of 4 phenoxybenzoic acid 300 g 1.4 mol in SOCl 1.2 L was stirred at 80 C. under Nfor 3 hr. The mixture was concentrated in vacuum to give the intermediate 315 g which was used for next step without further purification.

To a solution of propanedinitrile 89.5 g 1355 mmol and DIEA 350 g 2710 mmol in THF 800 mL was dropwise a solution of the intermediate 315 g in toluene 800 mL at 0 5 C. over 2 hr. The resultant mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stirred for 16 hr. The reaction was quenched with water 2.0 L and extracted with of EA 2.0 L 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with 1000 mL of 3 N HCl aqueous solution brine 2.0 L 3 dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the crude product 330 g 93 . H NMR DMSO d 7.62 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.94 d J 8.8 Hz 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 262.9.

A solution of 2 hydroxy 4 phenoxyphenyl methylene malononitrile 50 g 190.8 mmol in CH OMe 500 mL was heated to 75 C. for 16 hr. Then the mixture was concentrated to a residue and washed with MeOH 50 mL to give 25 g 47.5 of 2 methoxy 4 phenoxyphenyl methylene malononitrile as a yellow solid. H NMR DMSO d 7.70 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.52 7.45 m 2H 7.28 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.22 7.06 m 4H 3.93 s 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 276.9.

To a solution of 2 methoxy 4 phenoxyphenyl methylene malononitrile 80 g 290 mmol in ethanol 200 mL was added hydrazine hydrate 20 mL . The mixture was stirred at RT for 16 hr then was concentrated to give the crude product and washed with MeOH 30 mL to afford 55 g 68.8 of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile as a off white solid. H NMR DMSO d 12.11 br s 1H 7.80 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.46 7.39 m 2H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.12 7.04 m 4H 6.43 br s 2H .

A solution of N 3 acetylphenyl acetamide 1.77 g 10.0 mmol in DMF DMA 6 mL with molecular sieve 10 portions was stirred at 100 C. under Nfor 2 hr. the mixture was concentrated and washed with MTBE 30 mL to afford 2.1 g 90 of E N 3 3 dimethylamino acryloyl phenyl acetamide as a yellow solid.

To a solution of E N 3 3 dimethylamino acryloyl phenyl acetamide 46 mg 0.2 mmol in HOAc 5 mL was added 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 55 mg 0.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 118 C. for 4 hr. Then the reaction mixture was concentrated to a residue and partitioned between ethyl acetate 100 mL and brine 100 mL . Organic layer was separated washed with brine 2 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to afford 80 mg 90 of N 3 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl acetamide as a colorless oil. MS ESI m e M 1 446.

To a solution of N 3 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl acetamide 285 mg 0.64 mmol in ethanol 6 mL was added HCl 3 mL . The mixture stirred at 75 C. for 3 hr. Concentrated to afford 250 mg 97 of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.90 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.67 br s 2H 8.15 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 8.06 s 1H 7.87 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.64 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.57 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.48 7.44 m 3H 7.25 7.18 m 3H 7.13 d J 8.0 Hz 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 404.

To a solution of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 150 mg 0.372 mmol in ethanol 10 mL was added NaBH 70 mg 1.86 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 16 hr and 60 C. for 2 hr. Then the reaction mixture was concentrated to a residue and partitioned between EA 50 mL and brine 40 mL . Organic layer was separated from aqueous layer washed with brine 50 mL 2 dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 135 mg crude of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 408.

To a solution of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 130 mg 0.32 mmol in DMSO 2 mL and ethanol 2 mL was added a solution of 5 N NaOH aqueous solution 1 mL and HO 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 30 minutes concentrated and partitioned between EA 100 mL and brine 100 mL . Organic layer was separated washed with brine 3 100 mL dried over NaSOand purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with PE EA to afford 35 mg 26 of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.50 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.40 7.33 m 2H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.03 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.97 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.76 s 1H 6.44 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.23 6.21 m 2H 5.30 5.25 m 1H 5.09 s 2H 3.30 3.28 m 1H 3.12 3.02 m 1H 2.34 2.26 m 1H 2.05 2.01 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 426.

Compound 2 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 2a peak 1 R or S retention time at 8.94 min in chiral analysis and compound 2b peak 2 S or R retention time at 10.11 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation conditions are shown below.

To a solution of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 30 mg 0.071 mmol in DCM 2 mL was added pyridine 0.2 mL . Then acryloyl chloride 6 mg 0.084 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at RT for 0.5 hr and partitioned between DCM 20 mL and brine 20 mL . Organic layer was separated from aqueous layer washed with brine 2 20 mL dried over NaSOand purified by Pre TLC DCM CHOH 10 1 to afford 1.82 mg 5.38 of 7 3 acrylamidophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.58 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.46 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.34 7.26 m 4H 7.10 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.04 6.95 m 4H 6.84 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.39 6.25 m 2H 5.69 dd J 2.4 9.6 Hz 1H 5.47 5.44 m 1H 3.38 3.31 m 1H 3.22 3.12 m 1H 2.52 2.42 m 1H 2.23 2.17 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 480.

2.21 mg of byproduct 7 3 3 chloropropanamido phenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.57 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.52 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.42 7.30 m 4H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.09 7.01 m 4H 6.89 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.53 5.48 m 1H 3.85 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.44 3.37 m 1H 3.26 3.19 m 1H 2.83 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 2.60 2.44 m 1H 2.33 2.22 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 516.2.

Compound 3a peak 1 R or S retention time at 4.45 min and 3b peak 2 R or S retention time at 7.41 min was prepared from 2a and 2b according to the procedure similar to those for compound 3.

The desired product was prepared from 1 2 nitrophenyl ethanone and 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile according to the procedures similar to those for 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile step 4 to step 5 compound 2 step 1 and 2 and compound 68 step 8 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR DMSO d 7.48 7.44 m 2H 7.40 7.33 m 2H 7.15 7.09 m 1H 7.05 6.97 m 4H 6.92 td J 8.0 1.2 Hz 1H 6.75 br s 1H 6.64 dd J 8.0 1.2 Hz 1H 6.46 td J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 6.23 dd J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 5.57 5.52 m 1H 5.19 br s 2H 3.27 3.17 m 1H 2.93 td J 2.8 12.0 Hz 1H 2.21 2.11 m 1H 2.10 2.05 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 426.0.

Compound 5 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 5a peak 1 R or S retention time at 7.30 min in chiral analysis and compound 5b peak 2 S or R retention time at 9.68 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation conditions are shown below.

The desired compound was prepared from compound 5 and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 3. H NMR DMSO d 9.81 s 1H 7.50 7.32 m 5H 7.26 td J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 7.21 7.08 m 2H 7.04 6.98 m 4H 6.79 s 1H 6.60 dd J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 6.50 dd J 17.0 10.2 Hz 1H 6.24 dd J 17.0 1.9 Hz 1H 5.77 5.74 m 2H 3.26 3.22 m 1H 2.98 2.92 m 1H 2.32 2.25 m 1H 1.96 1.93 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 480.

Compound 6a peak 1 R or S retention time at 4.02 min and 6b peak 2 R or S retention time at 6.68 min was prepared from 5a and 5b according to the procedure similar to that for compound 3.

To a solution of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 4 mg 0.01 mmol in DCE 2 mL was added active MnO 100 mg 1.15 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 75 C. for 2 hr and filtered. The filtrate was purified by Pre TLC DCM CHOH 10 1 to afford 2 mg 50 of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD dand CDCl d 8.62 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.41 7.39 m 2H 7.31 7.26 m 3H 7.11 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.10 7.04 m 1H 7.01 6.97 m 4H 6.90 6.86 m 1H .

To a solution of 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 100 mg 0.24 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added TEA 3 drops followed by acryloyl chloride 32 mg 0.36 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT for 1 min and partitioned between DCM 50 mL and brine 50 mL . Organic layer was separated from aqueous layer dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by Pre TLC DCM CHOH 10 1 to afford 12 mg 11 of 7 3 acrylamido phenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.42 s 1H 8.80 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.47 s 1H 8.07 s 1H 7.95 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.89 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.81 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.56 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.47 br s 1H 7.42 7.37 m 3H 7.15 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.44 dd J 10.1 16.9 Hz 1H 6.26 dd J 1.6 16.9 Hz 1H 5.76 dd J 1.6 10.1 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 476.

The desired product was prepared from 4 benzyloxy benzoic acid according to the procedures similar to those step 1 to 3 for 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.01 s 1H 7.72 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.50 7.44 m 2H 7.44 7.37 m 2H 7.36 7.32 m 1H 7.11 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 6.39 br s 2H and 5.16 s 2H .

The desired product was prepared from 1 2 nitrophenyl ethanone and 5 amino 3 4 benzyloxy phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile according to the procedures similar to those step 4 and step 5 for N 3 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl acetamide under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art.

To a solution of 2 4 benzyloxy phenyl 7 2 nitrophenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 2 g 4.47 mmol in CHOH 20 mL and DCM 20 mL was added 10 w w Pd C 300 mg . The mixture was stirred at RT under Hfor 16 hr. Filtered and purified by chromatography column on silica gel elution with DCM CHOH to afford 0.92 g 62 of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 331.9.

To a solution of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 331 mg 1.0 mmol in acetone 10 mL was added bromomethyl benzene 204 mg 1.2 mmol and KCO 276 mg 2.0 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT for 16 hr. 50 mL of acetone was added and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to afford 400 mg 95 of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 benzyloxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 421.9.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 benzyloxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.47 7.33 m 7H 7.06 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.96 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.75 br s 1H 6.68 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.50 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.28 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.59 5.54 m 1H 5.19 br s 2H 5.12 s 2H 3.30 3.20 m 1H 3.02 2.92 m 1H 2.25 2.14 m 1H and 2.13 2.03 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 439.9.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 benzyloxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.84 s 1H 7.46 7.37 m 7H 7.33 7.28 m 2H 7.21 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.81 br s 1H 6.64 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.53 dd J 10.3 16.8 Hz 1H 6.27 d J 1.8 16.8 Hz 1H 5.59 5.57 m 2H 5.12 s 2H 3.30 3.26 m 1H 3.04 2.92 m 1H 2.35 2.27 m 1H and 1.95 1.97 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 493.9.

Compound 10 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 10a peak 1 R or S retention time at 3.15 min in chiral analysis and compound 10b peak 2 S or R retention time at 3.91 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation conditions are shown below.

To a solution of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 730 mg 2.21 mmol in THF 30 mL was added KCO 610 mg 4.42 mmol CbzCl 564 mg 3.32 mmol . After stirring at 65 C. for 16 hr the mixture was concentrated in vacuum. The residue was partitioned between 150 mL of DCM and 150 mL of brine. Organic layers were separated from aqueous layers dried over NaSOand purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with DCM CHOH to afford 370 mg 62 of benzyl 2 3 cyano 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenylcarbamate as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.71 s 1H 9.33 s 1H 7.66 s 1H 7.58 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.44 7.28 m 7H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.79 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.59 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.82 5.77 m 1H 5.17 s 2H 3.25 3.18 m 1H 2.97 2.87 m 1H 2.36 2.24 m 1H 2.08 2.00 m 1H .

To a solution of benzyl 2 3 cyano 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenylcarbamate 370 mg 0.8 mmol in 20 mL of DCM was added 4 fluorophenylboronic acid 167 mg 1.2 mmol TEA 162 mg 1.6 mmol and Cu OAc 216 mg 1.2 mmol . After stirring at RT for 16 hr 100 mL of DCM 10 mL of CHOH and 100 mL of brine were added to the mixture. Organic layers were separated from aqueous layers washed with brine 100 mL 2 dried over NaSOand purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with DCM CHOH to afford 334 mg 75 of benzyl 2 3 cyano 2 4 4 fluorophenoxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenylcarbamate as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.34 s 1H 7.76 7.74 m 3H 7.45 7.10 m 12H 7.02 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.59 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.85 5.80 m 1H 5.17 s 2H 3.25 3.18 m 1H 2.97 2.87 m 1H 2.36 2.24 m 1H 2.08 2.00 m 1H .

The desired product was prepared from benzyl 2 3 cyano 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenylcarbamate using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. MS ESI m e M 1 577.9.

To a solution of benzyl 2 3 carbamoyl 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenylcarbamate 100 mg 0.17 mmol in 5 mL of DCM and 5 mL of CHOH was added 10 w w Pd C 50 mg . After stirring at RT under Hfor 16 hr the mixture was filtered and the cake was washed with DCM CHOH 1 1 50 mL . The filtrate was concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with DCM CHOH to afford 10 mg 13 of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.39 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.02 6.91 m 7H 6.66 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.53 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.33 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.54 5.50 m 1H 3.30 3.24 m 1H 3.12 3.06 m 1H and 2.31 2.20 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 443.9.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.47 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.39 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.33 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.26 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.12 7.00 m 6H 6.81 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.53 6.46 m 1H 6.39 6.35 m 1H 5.87 5.76 m 1H 5.73 5.69 m 1 H 3.36 3.30 m 1H 3.22 3.17 m 1H 2.45 2.39 m 1 H and 2.17 2.14 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 497.9.

To a solution of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 60 mg 0.15 mmol in 5 mL of DCM was added three drops of DIEA and three drops of trifluoroacetic anhydride. The reaction mixture was stirred at it for 2 hr then partitioned between water 20 mL and DCM 20 mL . The organic layer was concentrated to give the product as a yellow solid 50 mg yield 67 which was used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of N 2 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide 50 mg 0.1 mmol in 5 mL of acetone was added KOH 11.2 mg 0.2 mmol and CHI 0.5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at It for 15 hr then concentrated to remove acetone. The residue was partitioned between 20 mL of water and 20 mL of EA. The organic layer was concentrated and purified by pre TLC PE EA 2 1 to give the product as a white solid 15 mg yield 37 . H NMR DMSO d 8.82 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.97 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.47 7.38 m 4H 7.31 dd J 1.6 7.2 Hz 1H 7.23 7.17 m 3H 7.11 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.77 6.69 m 2H 5.35 5.31 m 1H 2.68 d J 4.8 Hz 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 417.9.

To a solution of 7 2 methylamino phenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 250 mg 0.6 mmol in 10 mL EtOH was added NaBH 100 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred at it for 15 hr and then concentrated to remove EtOH. The residue was partitioned between 30 mL of water and 30 mL of EA. The organic layer was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 10 mL of MeOH followed by 10 w w Pd C 50 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred at it under 1 atm. of Hfor 15 hr. Then the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by the flash chromatography PE EA 1 1 to give the product as a white solid 144 mg yield 56.5 . MS ESI m e M 1 421.9.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 methylamino phenyl 2 4 phenoxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. H NMR DMSO d 7.49 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.44 7.35 m 2H 7.18 7.01 m 6H 6.76 s 1H 6.58 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 6.54 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.28 dd J 1.2 7.6 Hz 1H 5.60 5.57 m 1H 5.50 5.49 m 1H 3.29 3.24 m 1H 2.98 2.93 m 1H 2.76 d J 4.8 Hz 3H 2.24 2.18 m 1H 2.06 2.03 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 439.8.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 methylamino phenyl 2 4 phenoxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR DMSO d 7.45 7.37 m 6H 7.29 7.24 m 1H 7.15 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 7.00 m 5H 6.81 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.25 6.16 m 2H 5.94 5.87 m 1H 5.63 5.51 m 1H 5.41 5.35 m 1H 3.41 3.22 m 5H 2.41 1.97 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 493.9.

To a solution of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 33.1 mg 0.1 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added trifluoroacetic anhydride 1 drop and DIEA 1 drop . After stirring at RT for 1 hr the mixture was partitioned between 10 mL of DCM and 10 mL of brine. Organic layer was separated from aqueous layers dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 40 mg 93 of N 2 3 cyano 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 427.8.

To a solution of N 2 3 cyano 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide 42.7 mg 0.10 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added 4 fluorophenylboronic acid 17 mg 0.12 mmol TEA 21 mg 0.2 mmol and Cu OAc 22 mg 0.12 mmol . After stirring at RT for 16 hr the mixture was purified by Pre TLC DCM CHOH 20 1 to afford 30 mg 57 of N 2 3 cyano 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide as a colorless oil. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.33 s 1H 7.90 7.77 m 3H 7.52 7.37 m 3H 7.34 7.27 m 2H 7.22 7.14 m 2H 7.10 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.80 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 5.80 5.75 m 1H 3.37 3.28 m 1H 3.09 2.95 m 1H 2.50 2.37 m 1H 2.10 1.95 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 521.8.

To a solution of N 2 3 cyano 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide 187 mg 0.36 mmol in acetone 10 mL was added KCO 100 mg 0.72 mmol and CHI 15 drops . After stirring at RT for 2 hr the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to afford 192 mg 100 of N 2 3 cyano 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro N methylacetamide as yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 535.8.

The desired product was prepared form N 2 3 cyano 2 4 4 fluorophenoxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro N methylacetamide using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.39 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.09 6.90 m 7H 6.58 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.51 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.30 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 5.52 5.48 m 1H 3.27 3.24 m 1H 3.11 3.02 m 1H 2.76 s 3H 2.32 2.10 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 457.9.

The desired product was prepared from 2 4 4 fluorophenoxyl phenyl 7 2 methylamino phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.47 7.37 m 4H 7.30 7.15 m 3H 7.12 7.08 m 2H 6.99 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.81 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.25 5.85 m 2H 5.63 5.49 m 1H 5.42 5.32 m 1H 3.40 3.20 m 6H 2.45 2.20 m 1H 2.15 1.90 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 511.9.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile and bromocyclopentane using the procedures similar to those step 7 and step 8 for compound 9 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.37 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.97 6.92 m 3H 6.74 br s 1H 6.67 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.49 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.27 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.58 5.53 m 1H 5.15 s 2H 4.86 4.80 m 1H 3.24 3.27 m 1H 3.02 2.93 m 1H 2.22 2.16 m 1H 2.14 2.08 m 1H 1.98 1.85 m 2H 1.91 1.70 m 4H 1.64 1.54 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 418.0.

The desired product was prepared from compound 17 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.83 s 1H 7.45 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.37 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.29 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.21 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.93 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.81 s 1H 6.64 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.53 dd J 10.2 17.0 Hz 1H 6.27 d J 17.0 Hz 1H 5.80 5.77 m 2H 4.86 4.79 m 1H 3.27 3.23 m 1H 3.03 2.94 m 1H 2.36 2.25 m 1H 1.99 1.91 m 3H and 1.75 1.53 m 6H . MS ESI m e M 1 471.9.

To a solution of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 331 mg 1.0 mmol in acetone 15 mL was added bromomethyl cyclopropane 135 mg 1.0 mmol and KCO 276 mg 2.0 mmol . After stirring at 56 C. for 16 hr the mixture was filtered. The cake was washed with acetone 20 mL 2 . The filtrate was concentrated to afford 300 mg of desired product 78 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 386.0.

To a solution of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 cyclopropylmethoxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 350 mg 0.91 mmol in EtOH 4 mL and DMSO 4 mL was added NaOH aqueous solution 5 N 2 mL and HO 2 mL . After stirring at 60 C. for 3 hr the mixture was partitioned between 100 mL of HO and 100 mL of EA. The organic layer was separated from aqueous layers washed with saturated brines 100 mL 2 dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by chromatography column on silica gel elution with DCM MeOH to afford 150 mg 41 of desired product as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.37 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.97 6.92 m 3H 6.75 br s 1H 6.67 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.49 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.27 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.58 5.54 m 1H 5.16 s 2H 3.83 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.27 3.24 m 1H 3.01 2.92 m 1H 2.23 2.13 m 1H 2.13 2.07 m 1H 1.24 1.18 m 1H 0.59 0.54 m 2H and 0.34 0.30 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 404.0.

The desired product was prepared from compound 19 and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.83 s 1H 7.45 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.37 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.30 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.21 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.96 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.81 s 1H 6.64 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.53 dd J 10.2 16.7 Hz 1H 6.27 d J 16.7 Hz 1H 5.80 5.77 m 2H 3.83 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.27 3.23 m 1H 3.03 2.93 m 1H 2.36 2.25 m 1H 2.02 1.91 m 1H 1.23 1.14 m 1H 0.59 0.53 m 2H and 0.34 0.29 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 457.9.

Compound 20 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 20a peak 1 R or S retention time at 3.03 min in chiral analysis and compound 20b peak 2 S or R retention time at 3.82 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation conditions are shown below.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile and 1 bromo 2 methoxyethane using the procedures similar to those step 7 and step 8 for compound 9 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.38 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.00 6.94 m 3H 6.75 br s 1H 6.69 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.51 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.28 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.59 5.54 m 1H 5.21 br s 1H 4.11 t J 4.0 Hz 2H 3.66 t J 4.0 Hz 2H 3.30 s 3H 3.28 3.25 m 1H 3.02 2.92 m 1H 2.24 2.16 m 1H and 2.13 2.05 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 407.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 21 and acryloyl chloride according to procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.84 s 1H 7.45 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.37 d J 8.6 2H 7.30 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.21 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.93 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.81 s 1H 6.64 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.53 dd J 10.5 17.0 Hz 1H 6.27 dd J 1.7 17.0 Hz 1H 5.80 5.77 m 2H 4.11 t J 4.4 Hz 2H 3.66 t J 4.4 Hz 2H 3.30 s 3H 3.27 3.23 m 1H 3.03 2.94 m 1H 2.36 2.25 m 1H 2.01 1.95 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 462.0.

To a solution of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 33 mg 0.1 mmol in THF 5 mL was added PPh 78.6 mg 0.25 mmol and tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol 10 mg 0.1 mmol . Then DIAD 51 mg 0.25 mmol was added dropwise to the mixture at 0 C. and stirred at 0 C. for 10 min under N. The mixture was allowed to warm to it and stirred at RT for 16 hr. The mixture was concentrated in vacuum and partitioned between DCM 20 mL and brine 20 mL . Organic layer was separated from aqueous layers dried over sodium sulfate and purified by Pre TLC DCM CHOH 10 1 to afford 5 mg 12 of 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yloxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a colorless oil. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.70 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.66 7.58 m 2H 7.58 7.52 m 1H 7.03 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.97 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.69 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.49 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.23 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.63 s 1H 5.21 s 2H 4.66 4.56 m 1H 3.90 3.79 m 2H 3.54 3.43 m 2H 3.25 3.18 m 1H 2.97 2.86 m 1H 2.21 2.07 m 2H 2.02 1.92 m 2H 1.65 1.50 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 415.9.

The desired product was prepared from 7 2 aminophenyl 2 4 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yloxy phenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.38 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.02 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.95 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.75 s 1H 6.67 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.49 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.26 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 5.56 s 1H 5.16 s 2H 4.64 4.54 m 1H 3.91 3.79 m 2H 3.53 3.42 m 2H 3.29 3.19 m 1H 3.01 2.92 m 1H 2.25 2.05 m 2H 2.02 1.91 m 2H and 1.64 1.52 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 433.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 23 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.83 s 1H 7.45 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.38 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.30 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.21 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.02 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.81 s 1H 6.63 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.53 dd J 17.0 10.3 Hz 1H 6.27 dd J 17.0 1.6 Hz 1H 5.82 5.74 m 2H 4.66 4.51 m 1H 3.90 3.78 m 2H 3.54 3.40 m 2H 3.31 3.18 m 1H 3.03 2.93 m 1H 2.37 2.24 m 1H 2.04 1.92 m 3H and 1.64 1.51 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 487.9.

The desired product was prepared from tert butyl 4 acetylpiperidine 1 carboxylate and 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile according to the procedures for 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile step 4 to 5 and compound 2 step 1 and 2 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR CDOD d 7.40 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.32 7.25 m 2H 7.06 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.01 6.94 m 4H 4.10 4.00 m 2H 3.98 3.91 m 1H 3.35 3.30 m 2H 2.70 2.58 m 2H 2.18 2.02 m 2H 2.02 1.84 m 1H 1.65 1.45 m 2H 1.39 1.12 m 2H 1.35 s 9H . MS ESI m e M 1 518.0.

The desired product was prepared from compound 25 according to the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 38. H NMR DMSO d 8.47 br s 1H 8.16 br s 1H 7.50 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 7.04 m 4H 6.72 br s 1H 4.08 4.01 m 1H 3.34 3.26 m 4H 2.94 2.75 m 2H 2.28 2.14 m 1H 2.07 1.88 m 2H 1.87 1.80 m 1H 1.75 1.66 m 1H 1.60 1.43 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 418.0.

The desired product was prepared from compound 26 and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR DMSO d 7.50 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.83 6.76 m 1H 6.68 br s 1H 6.07 d J 18.4 Hz 1H 5.64 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 4.52 4.42 m 1H 4.11 3.98 m 2H 3.33 3.24 m 2H 3.04 2.94 m 1H 2.67 2.55 m 1H 2.33 2.25 m 1H 2.01 1.93 m 2H 1.78 1.66 m 1H 1.61 1.50 m 1H 1.30 1.18 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 471.9.

Compound 27 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 27a peak 1 R or S retention time at 6.49 min in chiral analysis and compound 27b peak 2 S or R retention time at 8.03 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation

To a solution of 1 tert butoxycarbonyl azetidine 3 carboxylic acid 5.15 g 25.6 mmol in THF 100 mL was added DCC 7.11 g 34.5 mmol EtN 5.18 g 51.2 mmol and N O dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 3.44 g 35.3 mmol the reaction was stirred at RT for about 16 hr. Concentrated under reduced pressure to remove solvent the residue was portioned between EA 100 mL and water 50 mL the aqueous was further extracted with EA 50 mL 3 . The combined organic phases were washed with brine 20 mL concentrated under reduced pressure to remove solvent then purified by column chromatography on silica gel 200 300 mesh CHCl MeOH 20 1 to give the crude product 8.0 g as a colorless oil. MS ESI m e M 23 266.9 M 55 189.0.

To a solution of tert butyl 3 methoxy methyl carbamoyl azetidine 1 carboxylate 7.0 g 28.7 mmol in THF 150 mL was added CHMgBr 43 mL 43 mmol at 0 C. then slowly warmed to RT for about 2 hr. 10 aqueous of citric acid 30 mL was added to the mixture and extracted with EA 50 mL 3 the combined organic phases were washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSO filtered concentrated and purified by column chromatography on silica gel 200 300 mesh PE EA 2 1 to give the crude product 4.0 g 70 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m e M 55 144.0.

The desired product was prepared from tert butyl 3 acetylazetidine 1 carboxylate and 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile according to the procedures for 7 3 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile step 4 to 5 compound 2 step 1 and 2 and compound 38 step 2 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR DMSO d 8.70 br s 1H 8.44 br s 111 7.50 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.45 7.40 m 2H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.06 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.72 br s 1H 4.46 4.38 m 1H 4.24 4.15 m 1H 4.07 3.94 m 3H 3.29 3.24 m 2H 3.19 3.10 m 1H 2.13 2.04 m 1H 1.78 1.69 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 390.0.

The desired product was prepared from compound 28 and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR DMSO d 7.50 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.44 7.40 m 2H 7.20 7.15 m 1H 7.10 7.04 m 4H 6.69 br s 1H 6.37 6.26 m 1H 6.12 6.04 m 1H 5.68 560 m 1H 4.43 4.25 m 2H 4.18 4.08 m 1H 4.04 3.96 m 1H 3.86 3.80 m 1H 3.32 3.26 m 2H 3.02 2.92 m 1H 2.14 2.06 m 1H 1.79 1.70 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 444.0.

Compound 29 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 29a peak 1 R or S retention time at 10.54 min in chiral analysis and compound 29b peak 2 S or R retention time at 13.98 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation conditions are shown below.

Compound 30 Cis 7 Acryloyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 5a 6 7 8 9 9a octahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrido 3 4 e pyrimidine 3 carboxamide and Cis 7 acryloyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 4a 5 6 7 8 8a 9 octahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrido 4 3 d pyrimidine 3 carboxamide

The desired product was prepared from tert butyl 4 oxopiperidine 1 carboxylate and 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile according to the procedures for compound 27 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR DMSO d 7.51 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 7.01 m 4H 6.90 6.78 m 1H 6.65 s 1H 6.18 6.06 m 1H 5.73 5.63 m 1H 4.45 4.33 m 1H 3.84 3.34 m 5H 3.22 3.16 m 1H 2.40 2.32 m 1H 2.21 2.10 m 1H 2.00 1.90 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 443.9.

Compound 30 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 30a peak 1 R or S retention time at 10.64 min in chiral analysis and compound 30b peak 2 S or R retention time at 15.18 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation conditions are shown below.

The compound 31 was obtained as one byproduct in the preparation of compound 30. H NMR DMSO dat 80 C. 7.53 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 7.02 m 4H 6.82 dd J 16.8 10.6 Hz 1H 6.42 br s 1H 6.10 dd J 16.8 2.3 Hz 1H 6.01 br s 2H 5.68 dd J 10.6 2.3 Hz 1H 4.17 dd J 5.4 12.2 Hz 1H 3.67 t J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.28 td J 4.0 10.4 Hz 1H 2.24 2.17 m 1H 1.93 1.81 m 1H 1.47 1.33 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 443.9.

To a solution of 2 2 oxopropyl isoindoline 1 3 dione 1 g 4.9 mmol in 20 mL of DMF DMA was added some of 4 A molecular sieve. The reaction mixture was stirred at 100 C. under Nfor 15 hr. After cooling down to RT the mixture was filtered and collected 600 mg 47.5 of crude E 2 4 dimethylamino 2 oxobut 3 enyl isoindoline 1 3 dione as a solid. MS ESI m e M 1 259.1.

A mixture of E 2 4 dimethylamino 2 oxobut 3 enyl isoindoline 1 3 dione 600 mg 2.33 mmol and 5 amino 3 4 phenoxy phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 642 mg 2.33 mmol in 20 mL of HOAc was stirred and heated to 120 C. for 15 hr. The mixture was concentrated and suspended in 30 mL of solvent PE EA 4 1 . The mixture was filtered and the solid was purified by pre TLC DCM EA 50 1 to give 430 mg 40 of 7 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl methyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.74 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.05 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.96 7.90 m 1H 7.88 7.85 m 2H 7.50 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.46 7.37 m 2H 7.21 7.09 m 5H 5.32 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 472.1.

To a solution of 7 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl methyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 290 mg 0.62 mmol in 5 mL of MeOH and 5 mL of dioxane was added 12 drops of hydrazine hydrate. The reaction mixture was stirred and heated to 60 C. for 3 hr. The mixture was concentrated and suspended in 20 mL of solvent DCM MeOH 10 1 . The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated and purified by the flash chromatography eluting with EA followed by DCM MeOH 10 1 to give 150 mg 71 of 7 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a solid. MS ESI m e M 1 342.1.

To a solution of 7 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 150 mg 0.44 mmol in 20 mL of EtOH was added NaBH 200 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 15 hr. The mixture was concentrated to remove the solvent. The residue was partitioned between EA 20 mL and water 20 mL . The organic layers were concentrated to give 150 mg 100 of crude 7 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a solid which was used in the next step without further purification. MS ESI m e M 1 346.0.

To a solution of 7 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 15 mg 0.043 mmol in 2 mL of EtOH was added 1 mL of DMSO 0.5 mL of NaOH 5N and 0.5 mL of HO 30 aqueous solution . After stirring at 60 C. for 2 hr the mixture was concentrated to remove EtOH. The residue was partitioned between water 30 mL and EA 20 mL . The organic phase was concentrated and purified by pre HPLC eluting from 20 to 40 CHCN in 0.1 TFA in HO. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and lyophilized overnight to give the product as a TFA salt 10 mg 64 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.07 br s 3H 7.62 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.43 7.35 m 2H 7.25 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.15 7.12 m 4H 6.77 br s 1H 4.38 4.30 m 1H 3.40 3.20 m 4H 2.16 2.06 m 1H 2.00 1.80 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 364.0.

To a solution of 7 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 125 mg 0.344 mmol in 5 mL of DCM was added EtN four drops and acryloyl chloride 46.5 mg 0.52 mmol . After stirring at rt for 30 mins. The mixture was partitioned between water 10 mL and DCM 5 mL . The organic layer was concentrated and purified by pre TLC DCM MeOH 20 1 to give 40 mg 28 of product. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.37 t J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.59 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.54 7.43 m 2H 7.25 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.16 7.11 m 4H 6.76 s 1H 6.33 dd J 10.1 17.0 Hz 1H 6.18 dd J 1.9 17.0 Hz 1H 5.69 dd J 1.9 10.1 Hz 1H 4.28 4.22 m 1H 3.92 3.80 m 1H 3.50 3.30 m 3H 2.14 1.94 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 417.9.

Compound 33 was separated into two enantiomeric stereoisomers compound 33a peak 1 R or S retention time at 6.04 min in chiral analysis and compound 33b peak 2 S or R retention time at 8.87 min in chiral analysis by chiral prep HPLC. The chiral separation

To a solution of 7 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 50 mg 0.147 mmol in 5 mL of DCM was added three drops of DIEA and two drops of trifluoroacetic anhydride. After stirring at rt for 2 hr 10 mL water was added to the mixture and extracted with DCM 5 mL 2 . The DCM layers were concentrated to give a yellow solid 50 mg 78 which was used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of N 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl methyl 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide 40 mg 0.091 mmol in 5 mL of acetone was added KCO 50 mg and CHI 0.5 mL . After stirring at rt for 4 hr the mixture was concentrated. The residue was partitioned between 10 mL of water and 10 mL of DCM. The organic layer was concentrated and purified by Pre TLC DCM MeOH 20 1 to give a yellow solid 30 mg 73 . MS ESI m e M 1 451.9.

To a solution of N 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl methyl 2 2 2 trifluoro N methylacetamide 40 mg 0.089 mmol in 15 mL of EtOH was added NaBH 50 mg . After stirring at rt for 30 mins the mixture was concentrated. The residue was partitioned between 20 mL of water and 20 mL of EA. The EA layer was concentrated and purified by Pre TLC DCM MeOH 5 1 to give a white solid 20 mg 63 . MS ESI m e M 1 359.9.

To a solution of 7 methylamino methyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 20 mg 0.0557 mmol in 2 mL of EtOH was added 1 mL of DMSO 0.5 mL of NaOH 5N and 0.5 mL of HO 30 solution . The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hr. Then the mixture was concentrated to remove EtOH. The residue was partitioned between water 20 mL and EA 20 mL . The EA layer was concentrated to give the product as a white solid 10 mg yield 48 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.51 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.47 7.40 m 2H 7.19 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 7.04 m 4H 6.61 s 1H 4.26 4.16 m 1H 3.34 3.27 m 2H 2.97 2.95 m 1H 2.83 2.77 m 1H 2.33 s 3H 2.08 2.02 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 378.0.

To a solution of 7 methylamino methyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 92 mg 0.244 mmol in 5 mL of DCM was added EtN three drops and acryloyl chloride 33 mg 0.366 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 30 min. Then the mixture was partitioned between water 30 mL and DCM 20 mL . The organic layer was concentrated and purified by pre TLC DCM MeOH 15 1 to give the product as a white solid 25 mg yield 24 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO dand DO at 80 C. 7.51 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.44 7.39 m 2H 7.20 7.14 m 1H 7.10 7.04 m 4H 6.75 6.57 m 2H 6.10 5.85 m 1H 5.67 5.50 m 1H 4.45 4.38 m 1H 4.00 3.70 m 2H 3.40 3.30 m 2H 3.00 s 3H 2.14 1.90 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 432.0.

To a mixture of ethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 35.0 g 250 mmol and KCO 69.0 g 500 mmol in CHCN 250 mL was added BnBr 42.7 g 250 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT for 18 h and concentrated. The residue was suspended in EA 500 mL washed with water 200 mL 2 dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the desired compound as a white solid 53.0 g 91.2 . H NMR DMSO d 8.46 s 1H 7.88 s 1H 7.41 7.19 m 5H 5.37 s 2H 4.21 q 2H J 5.4 Hz 1.25 t 3H J 5.4 Hz . MS ESI m e M 1 231.0.

A mixture of ethyl 1 benzyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 53.0 g 0.23 mol and LiOH 19.4 g 0.46 mol in THF 100 mL and HO 100 mL was stirred at refluxed for 6 h. Then THF was removed the residue was acidify by 6 N HCl precipitation was formed filtered and dried to give the desired compound as a white solid 44.0 g 92.8 . H NMR DMSO d 12.36 s 1H 8.39 s 1H 7.85 s 1H 7.38 7.27 m 5H 5.37 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 202.9.

A solution of 1 benzyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylic acid 25.0 g 123.8 mmol in SOCl 250 mL was heated to reflux for 3 hr. The mixture was concentrated in vacuum to give the intermediate which was used in the next step without further purification. To a solution of propanedinitrile 8.2 g 12.8 mmol DIEA 32.0 g 247.6 mmol in THF 250 mL was added dropwise a solution of intermediate in toluene 250 mL at 0 5 C. over 1 hr. The resultant mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stirred for 16 hr. The reaction was quenched with water 500 mL and extracted with EA 500 mL 3 The organic layers were washed with 3 N HCl 500 mL brine 500 mL 3 dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the crude product 26.5 g 85.0 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 250.9.

A solution of 2 1 benzyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl hydroxy methylene malononitrile 26.5 g 106 mmol in CH OMe 250 mL was heated to 75 C. for 16 hr. Then the solution was concentrated. The residue was washed with MeOH 50 mL to give 14.5 g 51.8 of 2 1 benzyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methoxy methylene malononitrile as an off white solid. H NMR DMSO d 8.71 s 1H 8.08 s 1H 7.42 7.24 m 5H 5.46 s 2H 4.12 s 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 264.9.

A mixture of 2 1 benzyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methoxy methylene malononitrile 14.5 g 54.9 mmol and hydrazine hydrate 10 mL in EtOH 500 mL was stirred at RT for 4 hr. Then the mixture was concentrated to give the crude product washed with MeOH to afford 10 g 69.0 of 5 amino 2 benzyl 3 4 bi 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile as an off white solid. H NMR DMSO d 11.76 br s 1H 8.18 s 1H 7.82 s 1H 7.34 7.26 m 5H 6.11 br s 2H 5.40 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 264.9.

The desired product was prepared from 5 amino 2 benzyl 3 4 bi 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile and E 2 4 dimethylamino 2 oxobut 3 enyl isoindoline 1 3 dione according to the procedures step 2 to 5 for compound 32 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.14 s 1H 7.97 br s 3H 7.74 s 1H 739 7.24 m 5H 5.37 s 2H 4.40 4.25 m 1H 3.37 3.16 m 4H 2.16 2.08 m 1H 1.99 1.89 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 352.0.

The desired product was prepared from compound 36 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.27 t J 6.1 Hz 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.67 s 1H 7.41 7.21 m 5H 6.58 s 1H 6.25 br s 2H 6.25 dd J 17.1 10.1 Hz 1H 6.10 dd J 17.1 2.1 Hz 1H 5.62 dd J 10.1 2.1 Hz 1H 5.36 s 2H 4.16 4.10 m 1H 3.83 3.72 m 1H 3.42 3.30 m 1H 3.30 3.22 m 2H 2.00 1.96 m 1H 1.95 1.86 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 405.9.

To a solution of diisopropylamine 153 mg 1.5 mmol in THF 20 mL was added n BuLi 2.5 M 0.6 mL at 75 C. under N. After 5 min ethyl 1 benzylpiperidine 4 carboxylate 247 mg 1.0 mmol was added and the resulting mixture then stirred at 70 C. for 10 min before adding di tert butyl azodicarboxylate 345 mg 1.5 mmol . The reaction was stirred for 30 min then quenched with aqueous NHCl 10 mL and extracted with EA 10 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the crude product 350 mg 72 as an off white solid. MS ESI m e M 1 478.3.

A mixture of di tert butyl 1 1 benzyl 4 ethoxycarbonyl piperidin 4 yl hydrazine 1 2 dicarboxylate 1.0 g 2.09 mmol and con. HCl 1.0 mL in MeOH 10 mL was heated to reflux for 2 hr. The mixture was then concentrated to give the crude product 650 mg 88.9 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 278.0.

A mixture of ethyl 1 benzyl 4 hydrazinylpiperidine 4 carboxylate hydrochloride 580 mg 1.57 mmol 2 methoxy 4 phenoxyphenyl methylene malononitrile 433 mg 1.57 mmol and TEA 475 mg 4.71 mmol in CHCl 20 mL was heated to reflux for 16 hr under N. The mixture was concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel using 50 of EA in PE as eluant to give the product 280 mg 34.2 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 521.9.

To a solution of ethyl 4 5 amino 4 cyano 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl 1 benzylpiperidine 4 carboxylate 52 mg 0.1 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added NaBH 8 mg 0.2 mmol . After 10 min the reaction was quenched with water 5 mL and extracted with EA 10 mL 3 . The organic combined layers was dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the crude product 34 mg 70.9 as an off white solid. MS ESI m e M 1 480.0.

To a solution of 5 amino 1 1 benzyl 4 hydroxymethyl piperidin 4 yl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 50 mg 0.1 mmol and TEA 20 mg 0.20 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added MsCl 14 mg 0.12 mmol at 0 C. After 5 min the reaction was quenched with water 5 mL and extracted with DCM 5 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated and purified by Prep TLC 10 of MeOH in DCM to give the product 35 mg 62.8 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.80 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.45 7.36 m 2H 7.37 7.22 m 5H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.06 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.49 br s 2H 4.48 s 2H 3.40 s 2H 3.10 s 3H 2.88 2.55 m 4H 2.19 2.16 m 2H 1.92 1.86 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 557.9.

A mixture of 4 5 amino 4 cyano 3 4 phenoxyphenyl H pyrazol 1 yl 1 benzylpiperidin 4 yl methyl methanesulfonate 35 mg 0.06 mmol and CsCO 31 mg 0.09 mmol in DMF 2 mL was heated to 50 C. for 16 hr. The reaction was quenched with water 5 mL and extracted with EA 5 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by Prep TLC 10 of MeOH in DCM to give the product 12 mg 43.2 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.79 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.43 7.40 m 3H 7.38 7.29 m 4H 7.26 br s 1H 7.19 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.12 7.05 m 4H 3.85 s 2H 3.53 s 2H 2.89 2.80 m 2H 2.22 2.12 m 2H 2.10 1.96 m 2H 1.85 1.75 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 462.0.

The desired product was prepared from 1 benzyl 6 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 dihydrospiro imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 4 piperidine 7 carbonitrile according to the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.63 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.45 7.39 m 3H 7.37 7.31 m 4H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.12 6.94 m 4H 6.43 s 1H 3.78 s 2H 3.55 br s 2H 2.89 2.82 m 2H 2.15 2.11 m 2H 1.84 1.72 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 479.9.

A mixture of 1 benzyl 6 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 dihydrospiro imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 4 piperidine 7 carboxamide 50 mg 0.10 mmol 10 w w Pd OH C 5 mg in MeOH 10 mL and HOAc 1 drop was stirred for 16 hr under H. The mixture was filtrated and the filtrate was concentrated to give the crude product 20 mg 51.4 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 390.0.

Compound 40 was prepared from compound 39 and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.64 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.44 7.37 m 2H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.05 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 6.97 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.86 dd J 10.5 16.7 Hz 1H 6.51 br s 1H 6.12 dd J 2.3 16.7 Hz 1H 5.69 dd J 2.3 10.5 Hz 1H 4.13 3.95 m 2H 3.83 s 2H 3.60 3.38 m 2H 1.99 1.76 m 4H . MS ESI m e M 1 443.9.

To a suspension of NaH 318 mg 7.94 mmol in THF 20 mL was added a solution of ethyl 2 diethoxyphosphoryl acetate 1.78 g 7.94 mmol in THF 5 mL dropwise over 30 min at 0 C. After stirring for 10 min a solution of 1 benzylpiperidin 4 one 1.0 g 5.29 mmol in THF 5 mL was added dropwise at 0 C. over 20 min. The mixture was allowed to stir for 60 min. Then the reaction was quenched with water 10 mL . The mixture was extracted with EA 10 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel using 25 of EA in PE as eluant to give the product 1.2 g 87.3 as a yellow oil. MS ESI m e M 1 260.0.

A mixture of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 1.0 g 3.6 mmol ethyl 2 1 benzylpiperidin 4 ylidene acetate 1.1 g 4.3 mmol and KCO 745 mg 5.4 mmol in DMF 20 mL was heated to 80 C. for 16 hr under N. The reaction was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with EA 20 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel using 30 of EA in PE as eluant to give the product 950 mg 54.9 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.92 s 1H 7.84 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.48 7.40 m 2H 7.36 7.29 m 4H 7.27 7.23 m 1H 7.20 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.15 7.07 m 4H 3.55 s 2H 3.01 s 2H 2.81 2.73 m 2H 2.39 2.27 m 2H 2.26 2.16 m 2H 1.83 1.74 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 489.9.

A solution of 1 benzyl 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4 H spiro piperidine 4 7 pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 500 mg 1.02 mmol in HPO 5 mL was heated to 130 C. for 1 hr. The mixture was poured to water 20 mL and extracted with EA 20 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel using 5 of MeOH in DCM as eluant to afford the product 180 mg 34.8 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 507.9.

A solution of 1 benzyl 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4 H spiro piperidine 4 7 pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 180 mg 0.36 mmol in BH THF IN 20 mL was heated to reflux for 3 hr. The reaction was quenched with MeOH 20 mL and con. HCl 2 mL . The mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hr then was basified with NaHCOand extracted with EA 20 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with 5 of MeOH in DCM to give the product 120 mg 67.6 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.39 7.22 m 9H 7.09 7.04 m 1H 6.99 6.94 m 4H 3.86 s 2H 3.35 t J 5.6 Hz 2H 3.19 3.11 m 2H 2.80 2.66 m 2H 2.50 2.40 m 2H 2.10 t J 5.6 Hz 2H 1.87 1.78 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 493.9.

Compound 42 was prepared from 1 benzyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4 H spiro piperidine 4 7 pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide according to the procedure similar to that for compound 39. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.66 br s 2H 7.51 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.46 7.37 m 2H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 7.04 m 4H 6.79 s 1H 3.40 3.33 m 4H 3.17 3.06 m 2H 2.46 2.35 m 2H 2.17 2.10 m 2H 1.96 1.87 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 403.9.

Compound 43 was prepared from compound 42 and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. HNMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.50 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.45 7.37 m 2H 7.17 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.12 7.01 m 4H 6.85 dd J 10.4 16.7 Hz 1H 6.73 s 1H 6.11 dd J 2.4 16.7 Hz 1H 5.68 dd J 2.4 10.4 Hz 1H 4.23 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 4.03 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 3.43 t J 12.0 1H 3.37 3.33 m 2H 3.16 t J 12.0 Hz 1H 2.24 2.08 m 4H 1.82 1.73 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 457.9.

To a solution of methyl azetidine 3 carboxylate 5.0 g 33.1 mmol and DIEA 10.7 g 82.8 mmol in DMF 50 mL was added dropwise bromomethyl benzene 5.7 g 33.1 mmol at 0 C. over 10 min. After stirring for 2 hr at rt the mixture was poured to water 50 mL and extracted with EA 50 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica EA PE 1 4 to give the product 3.5 g 51.6 as a light yellow oil. H NMR DMSO d 7.34 7.20 m 5H 3.62 s 3H 3.53 s 2H 3.41 3.35 m 1H 3.29 3.31 m 2H 3.19 3.22 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 206.0.

The desired product was prepad from methyl 1 benzylazetidine 3 carboxylate and ditert butyl azodicarboxylate using the procedure similar to step 1 for compound 38. MS ESI m e M 1 435.9.

The desired product was prepared from di tert butyl 1 1 benzyl 3 methoxycarbonyl azetidin 3 yl hydrazine 1 2 dicarboxylate using the procedures similar to those step 2 to 4 for compound 38. H NMR DMSO d 7.78 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.36 7.21 m 5H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 7.04 m 4H 6.17 s 2H 5.50 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.89 d J 5.2 Hz 2H 3.61 3.63 m 4H 3.38 d J 6.4 Hz 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 451.9.

The desired product was prepared from 5 amino 1 1 benzyl 3 hydroxymethyl azetidin 3 yl 3 4 phenoxy phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 5 for compound 38. H NMR DMSO d 7.82 7.74 m 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.36 7.23 m 5H 7.21 7.15 m 1H 7.13 7.04 m 4H 6.52 s 2H 4.69 s 2H 3.70 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.66 s 2H 3.49 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.13 s 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 529.9.

The desired product was prepared from 3 5 amino 4 cyano 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl 1 benzyl azetidin 3 yl methyl methanesulfonate using the procedures similar to those step 6 and 7 for compound 38. H NMR DMSO d 7.66 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.35 7.28 m 4H 7.28 7.21 m 1H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.52 s 1H 4.19 s 2H 3.67 s 2H 3.54 s 4H . MS ESI m e M 1 451.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 44 using the procedure similar to that for compound 39. H NMR DMSO d 7.67 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 7.36 m 2H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.00 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.62 s 1H 4.19 4.20 m 4H 3.78 d J 9.6 Hz 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 361.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 45 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR DMSO d 7.66 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.45 7.37 m 2H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.00 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.62 s 1H 6.36 dd J 17.0 10.3 Hz 1H 6.15 dd J 17.0 2.1 Hz 1H 5.72 dd J 10.3 2.1 Hz 1H 4.62 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 4.56 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 4.32 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.27 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.22 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 415.9.

A solution of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 1.0 g 3.6 mmol in HPO 20 mL was heated to 120 C. for 4 hr. The mixture was then poured into water 100 mL extracted with EA 100 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the product 850 mg 77.5 as yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 295.1.

A mixture of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 29.4 mg 0.1 mmol and 2 bromo 1 3 nitrophenyl ethanone 24.4 mg 0.1 mmol in EtOH 2 mL was stirred at 80 C. for 16 hr. The mixture was filtered to afford 5 mg of crude 2 3 nitrophenyl 6 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 7 carboxamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 440.0.

To a solution of 2 3 nitrophenyl 6 4 phenoxyphenyl H imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 7 carboxamide 600 mg 1.37 mmol in 10 mL of MeOH and 10 mL of DCM was added 10 w w Pd C 100 mg . After stirring at RT under Hfor 4 hr the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by Pre HPLC eluting from 30 to 90 CHCN in 0.1 TFA in HO. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and lyophilized overnight to afford 73 mg 13 of 2 3 aminophenyl 6 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 7 carboxamide as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.03 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 8.14 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.73 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.47 7.40 m 2H 7.38 7.26 m 3H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.03 d J 8.4 Hz 2H and 6.98 6.86 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 409.9.

The desired product was prepared from 2 3 aminophenyl 6 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 7 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 8.06 s 1H 7.83 s 1H 7.64 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.52 7.38 m 5H 7.15 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.09 7.05 m 4H 6.49 6.37 m 2H and 5.80 dd J 4.0 8.8 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 463.9.

The desired compound was separated as another isomer in the step 2 of compound 48. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.22 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.03 s 1H 7.89 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.81 7.68 m 3H 7.46 7.37 m 4H 7.19 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.13 7.08 m 5H and 6.98 d J 7.6 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 410.1.

The desired product was prepared from compound 49 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.18 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 10.31 s 1H 8.38 s 1H 7.85 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.80 7.73 m 4H 7.46 7.40 m 3H 7.19 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.13 7.07 m 4H 6.50 dd J 10.2 17.0 Hz 1H 6.27 d J 17.0 Hz 1H 5.76 d J 10.2 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 463.9.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 oxopiperidine 1 carboxylate 5 g 25 mmol in 30 mL of DMF at RT was added TEA 7.7 mL 55 mmol followed by TMSCl 3.5 mL 27.6 mmol then the mixture was stirred at 75 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled to RT cold sat. aq. NaHCO 200 mL was added followed by cold hexane 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated to get the crude product directly used in the next step. The residue was dissolved in 15 mL of THF and stirred at 0 C. for 15 min. A solution of NBS 4.47 g 25 mmol in 80 mL of THF was added slowly. After addition the reaction was stirred at RT overnight. Water 200 mL was added to the reaction followed by 200 mL of hexane. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated to get crude product which was chromatographed on 60 g of silica gel using PE EA 20 1 to 8 1 as eluant to afford 5.56 g 78 of tert butyl 3 bromo 4 oxopiperidine 1 carboxylate as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 4.85 4.70 m 1H 4.20 4.00 m 1H 3.90 3.55 m 3H 2.80 2.68 m 1H 2.54 2.44 m 1H 1.43 s 9H . MS ESI m e M t Bu 221.9 224.0.

A mixture of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 1.5 g 5.4 mmol and KCO 2.24 g 16.3 mmol in 50 mL of DMF at 80 C. was stirred under Nfor 45 min before tert butyl 3 bromo 4 oxopiperidine 1 carboxylate 4.5 g 16.3 mmol was added in one portion. Then the mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 1 hr. After cooling down to RT 150 mL of water and 150 mL of EA was added. Aqueous phase was further extracted with EA 100 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated to get crude product which was chromatographed on 15 g of silica gel using DCM MeOH 400 1 to 200 1 as eluant to afford 850 mg 35 of tert butyl 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7 8H carboxylate as an off white solid. MS ESI m e M 1 455.9.

A solution of tert butyl 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7 8H carboxylate 130 mg 0.28 mmol in HPO 85 wt. in HO 20 mL was stirred at 100 C. for 1.5 hr until TLC and LCMS analysis showed that most of starting material was consumed. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured into water 100 mL . The mixture was adjust to PH 9 10 with solid KCO. The suspension was extracted with EA 100 mL 4 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 200 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated to get the crude product which was purified with pre HPLC eluting from 10 to 90 CHCN in 0.1 TFA in HO. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and lyophilized overnight to give 15 mg 11 of 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide trifluoroacetate as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.99 s 1H 9.32 s 2H 7.66 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.43 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.41 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 7.06 m 4H 4.44 s 2H 3.49 m 2H 2.95 2.92 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 373.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 51 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO dat 80 C. 11.55 s 1H 7.71 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.43 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.41 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 7.05 m 4H 6.88 dd J 10.6 17.1 Hz 1H 6.24 s 2H 6.15 d J 17.1 Hz 1H 5.74 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 4.78 s 2H 3.94 3.91 m 2H 2.80 2.76 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 427.9.

7 Acryloyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide 40 mg 0.09 mmol was suspended in Sat. HCl gas dioxane 50 mL then the mixture was stirred RT for about 1.5 hr and concentrated to dryness. The residue was suspended into 2 mL of MeOH and 2 mL of water. The organic layer was discarded aqueous layer was lyophilized to get 40 mg 90 of 7 3 chloropropanoyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.79 11.76 m 1H 7.68 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.43 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.41 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 7.04 m 4H 4.71 4.70 m 2H 3.85 3.79 m 4H 3.02 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 2.79 2.69 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 463.8 465.8.

A mixture of E 4 dimethylamino but 2 enoic acid hydrochloride 147 mg 0.88 mmol HATU 611 mg 1.6 mmol and TEA 328 mg 3.2 mmol in 50 mL of DCM was stirred at RT for about 2 hr before 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide 300 mg 0.8 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. TLC and LCMS analysis showed that starting material was consumed. To the reaction were added 100 mL of water and 50 mL of DCM. Aqueous phase was further extracted with 50 mL of DCM. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated to get crude product which was chromatographed on 5 g of silica gel using DCM MeOH 20 1 to 10 1 as eluant to afford 145 mg 37 of E 7 4 dimethylamino but 2 enoyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide which was dried by lyophilization. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO dat 80 C. 11.52 s 1H 7.69 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.41 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.12 6.99 m 4H 6.78 6.56 m 2H 6.22 s 2H 4.75 s 2H 3.89 t J 5.6 Hz 2H 3.12 d J 5.6 Hz 2H 2.80 2.72 m 2H 2.22 s 6H . MS ESI m e M 1 484.9.

7 Acetyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide was prepared as a byproduct due to some of HOAc residue in the last step. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.77 11.73 m 1H 7.70 7.66 m 2H 7.43 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.41 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.13 6.94 m 4H 4.68 s 2H 3.83 3.76 m 2H 2.82 2.77 m 2H 2.14 s 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 416.

The desired compound was prepared from 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide and 2 cyanoacetic acid according to the procedure similar to that for compound 54. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO dat 80 C. 11.55 s 1H 7.68 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.41 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.39 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 6.93 m 4H 6.22 br s 2H 4.68 s 2H 4.14 s 2H 3.86 3.79 m 2H 2.84 2.73 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 440.9.

To a solution of 7 acryloyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide 6 mg 0.014 mmol in 5 mL of MeOH at RT was added NaOMe 15 mg 0.28 mmol followed by dimethylamine hydrochloride 12 mg 014 mmol then the mixture was stirred at 50 C. overnight. After cooling down to RT the mixture was concentrated. The residue was purified by pre HPLC eluting from 0 to 60 CHCN in HO. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and lyophilized overnight to give 2.5 mg 35 of 6 3 dimethylamino propanoyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.84 11.82 m 1H 9.55 s 1H 7.69 7.66 m 2H 7.44 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 7.04 m 4H 4.75 4.72 m 2H 3.87 3.82 m 2H 3.02 3.00 m 2H 2.84 2.78 m 2H 2.77 s 6H 2.71 2.68 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 472.9.

The desired compound was prepared from 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide and but 2 enoic acid according to the procedure similar to that for compound 54. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.78 11.71 m 1H 7.68 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.46 7.39 m 2H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.11 7.04 m 4H 6.73 6.63 m 2H 4.80 4.71 m 2H 3.90 s 2H 2.76 2.70 m 2H 1.88 1.86 m 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 441.9.

To a solution of 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide 100 mg 0.268 mmol in 10 mL of acetone at RT was added KCO 140 mg 1.07 mmol . After stirring at RT for 2 hr 4 bromobut 2 enenitrile 40 mg 0.268 mmol in 2 mL of acetone was added and stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was then partitioned between EA 50 mL and water 100 mL . The aqueous phase was further extracted with 50 mL of EA. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated to get crude product which was further purified by pre TLC DCM MeOH 15 1 to afford 7 mg 6 of E 7 3 cyanoallyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.45 s 1H 7.59 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.42 7.30 m 2H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.06 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 6.76 dt J 16.3 4.6 Hz 1H 5.67 d J 16.3 Hz 1H 5.62 s 2H 3.82 s 2H 3.41 d J 4.6 Hz 2H 2.95 2.75 m 4H . MS ESI m e M 1 439.9.

4 mg 3.4 of Z 7 3 cyanoallyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 5 1 2 3 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.22 s 1H 7.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.41 7.33 m 2H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.06 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 6.70 6.59 m 1H 5.58 s 2H 5.53 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.85 s 2H 3.64 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 2.99 2.80 m 4H . MS ESI m e M 1 439.9.

A mixture of 3 bromo 4 chloropyridine 5 g 0.026 mol and hydrazine hydrate 80 in water 80 mL in dioxane 100 mL was stirred at 100 C. overnight. After cooling down to RT the mixture was concentrated. The residue was partitioned between 300 mL of EA and 300 mL of aq. sat. NHCl. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to get crude product which was suspended in 30 mL of cold isopropyl alcohol and filtered. The collected solid was dried in air to get 4.2 g 87 of 3 bromo 4 hydrazinylpyridine as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.18 s 1H 8.07 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.37 s 1H 7.01 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 4.36 s 2H .

A mixture of 2 methoxy 4 phenoxyphenyl methylene malononitrile 7.3 g 0.026 mol and 3 bromo 4 hydrazinylpyridine 4.2 g 0.022 mol in ethanol 300 mL was stirred at reflux under Novernight. The reaction was cooled to RT slowly and stirred at RT for about 4 hr till solid precipitated. The solid was filtered collected and washed with hexane to get 3.38 g 35 of 5 amino 1 3 bromopyridin 4 yl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile as a light yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 431.8 433.8.

The desired compound was prepared from 5 amino 1 3 bromopyridin 4 yl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile according to the procedure similar to step 3 for compound 51. MS ESI m e M 1 449.8 451.8.

A mixture of 5 amino 1 3 bromopyridin 4 yl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 3.96 g 8.8 mmol CuI 836 mg 4.4 mmol N N dimethylethane 1 2 diamine 77 mg 0.88 mmol KPO 5.59 g 26.4 mmol in 100 mL of DMF was stirred at 100 C. under Nfor 2 hr until TLC showed that most of starting material was consumed. After cooling down to RT the mixture was filtered and concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on 30 g of silica gel using DCM MeOH 20 1 to 10 1 as eluant to afford 3.2 g 99 of 2 4 Phenoxyphenyl 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide as a tan solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.63 br s 1H 8.85 s 1H 8.46 s 1H 7.96 d J 4.6 Hz 1H 7.81 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.45 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.43 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.20 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.14 7.09 m 4H . MS ESI m e M 1 369.9.

To a suspension of 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carbox amide 2.46 g 0.0067 mol in 150 mL of THF was added benzyl bromide 1.14 g 0.0067 mol dropwise then the mixture was stirred at 65 C. overnight. After cooling down to RT the mixture was concentrated the residue was suspended in 150 mL of MeOH NaBH 10 g 0.26 mol was added portionwise. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. To the reaction was added 200 mL of water followed by 200 mL of DCM. The aqueous phase was further extracted with 100 mL of DCM. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated to get the crude product which was chromatographed on 10 g of silica gel using DCM MeOH 200 1 to 80 1 as eluant to afford 0.786 g 26 of 6 benzyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide as a tan foam. MS ESI m e M 1 463.9.

A mixture of 6 benzyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide 640 mg 0.00138 mol and 10 w w Pd C 700 mg in 60 mL of MeOH was stirred at RT under 1 atm of Hovernight. TLC and LCMS analysis showed starting material was consumed. The reaction was filtered filtrate was concentrated to get 397 mg 77 of 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.65 7.55 m 2H 7.43 7.33 m 2H 7.18 7.12 m 1H 7.11 6.99 m 4H 4.18 s 2H 3.44 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 3.01 t J 5.8 Hz 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 373.9.

The desired compound was prepared from 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.79 s 1H 7.73 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.50 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.48 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.24 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.17 7.11 m 4H 7.06 6.98 m 1H 7.22 6.26 m 1H 5.84 5.82 m 1H 4.72 s 2H 4.00 3.97 m 2H 2.94 2.90 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 427.9.

The desired compound was prepared from 2 4 penoxyphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H pyrazolo 1 5 1 2 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 3 carboxamide and E 4 dimethylamino but 2 enoic acid hydrochloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 54. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.82 11.74 m 1H 10.06 br s 1H 7.66 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.43 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 7.05 m 4H 6.74 6.54 m 2H 4.66 s 2H 3.99 3.86 m 4H 2.88 2.76 m 2H 2.78 s 6H . MS ESI m e M 1 484.9.

To a suspension of 2 bromo 5 nitroaniline 1 g 4.6 mmol in conc. HCl 10 mL at 0 C. was slowly added a solution of NaNO 382 mg 5.5 mmol in water 1.5 mL . Then the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 3 hr until TLC and LCMS analysis showed that most of 2 bromo 5 nitroaniline was consumed. SnCl 1.90 g 10 mmol in conc. HCl 3 mL was slowly added. The mixture was then stirred at RT for 2 hr before re cooled to 0 C. Then the PH was adjusted with sat. aq. NaHCOto 7 8. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to get crude product which was further chromatographed on 10 g of silica gel using PE EA 20 1 to 4 1 as eluant to afford 560 mg 51 of 2 bromo 5 nitrophenyl hydrazine as a orange solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.89 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 7.60 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.29 dd J 2.8 8.6 Hz 1H 7.04 s 1H 4.38 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 232 234.

To a solution of 2 methoxy 4 phenoxyphenyl methylene malononitrile 392 mg 1.42 mmol in ethanol 30 mL was added 2 bromo 5 nitrophenyl hydrazine 300 mg 1.29 mmol in one portion then the mixture was stirred at 70 C. under Novernight. The mixture was concentrated to dryness and chromatographed on 5 g of silica gel using PE EA 10 1 to 2 1 as eluant to afford 128 mg 21 of 5 amino 1 2 bromo 5 nitrophenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 476 478.

A mixture of 5 amino 1 2 bromo 5 nitrophenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 137 mg 0.287 mmol in phosphorous acid 85 wt. in HO 10 mL was stirred at 100 C. for 1 hr until TLC and LCMS analysis showed that most of starting material was consumed. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and partitioned between water 40 mL and EA 40 mL . Organic layer was separated from aqueous layer. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EA 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated to get the crude product 149 mg which was used in next step without further purification. MS ESI m e M 1 494 496.

A mixture of 5 amino 1 2 bromo 5 nitrophenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 149 mg 0.3 mmol crude CuI 5.7 mg 0.03 mmol N N dimethylethane 1 2 diamine 3 mg 0.03 mmol KPO 64 mg 0.3 mol in 15 mL of DMF was stirred at 60 C. under Nfor 5 hr until TLC analysis showed that most of starting material was consumed. The reaction was cooled to RT. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was chromatographed on 5 g of silica gel using DCM MeOH 200 1 to 20 1 to afford 62 mg 52 of 7 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4H benzo 4 5 imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 carboxamide as a tan solid. MS ESI m e M 1 414.

To a solution of 7 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4H benzo 4 5 imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 carboxamide 9 mg 0.022 mmol in 3 mL of HOAc was added zinc powder 14 mg 0.22 mmol . Then the mixture was stirred at RT for 20 min until TLC and LCMS analysis showed that most of starting material was consumed. The reaction solid was filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated suspended in 10 mL of EA and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to get the product as a white solid 4 mg 50 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.60 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.32 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.30 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.23 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.16 s 1H 7.08 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.05 6.95 m 4H 6.79 dd J 1.6 8.4 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 384.

To a solution of 7 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4H benzo 4 5 imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 carboxamide 45 mg 0.11 mmol in 10 mL of DCM at 0 C. was added TEA 36 mg 0.35 mmol . Acryloyl chloride 11 mg 0.12 mmol in 2 mL of DCM was added dropwise over a period of 20 min. The mixture was stirred until TLC and LCMS analysis showed that most of starting material was consumed. The mixture was then partitioned between water 50 mL and DCM 20 mL extracted with additional 20 mL of DCM. The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by Pre TLC DCM MeOH 20 1 to get 4 mg 7.8 of 7 acrylamido 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4H benzo 4 5 imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 carboxamide as a grey solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 8.25 s 1H 7.61 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.44 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.39 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.32 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.30 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.08 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.05 6.90 m 4H 6.42 6.25 m 2H 5.69 dd J 9.6 1.9 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 438.

To a solution of 2 fluoro 4 nitrobenzaldehyde 1.0 g 5.92 mmol in CHOH 10 mL was added NaBH 814 mg 22 mmol . After stirring at RT for 15 min the mixture was concentrated. The residue was partitioned between 100 mL of EA and 100 mL of brine. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 100 mL 2 dried over NaSO and concentrated to afford 1.0 g of 2 fluoro 4 nitrophenyl methanol 99 as a red solid. MS ESI m e M 1 172.0.

To a solution of 2 fluoro 4 nitrophenyl methanol 755 mg 4.42 mmol in 10 mL of DCM was added TsOH 100 mg 0.13 mmol and DHP 408 mg 4.86 mmol . After stirring at RT for 16 hr the mixture was concentrated. The residue was partitioned between 100 mL of EA and 100 mL of brine. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 100 mL 2 dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel elution with PE EA to afford 900 mg 80 of 2 2 fluoro 4 nitrobenzyloxy tetrahydro 2H pyran as a colorless oil. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.34 dd J 3.0 6.2 Hz 1H 8.26 8.30 m 1H 7.53 t J 9.2 Hz 1H 4.82 4.76 m 2H 4.62 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 3.80 3.74 m 1H 3.52 3.47 m 1H 1.76 1.64 m 2H and 1.58 1.45 m 4H .

To a solution of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 27.6 mg 0.1 mmol in DMF 3 mL and CHCN 5 mL was added 2 2 fluoro 4 nitrobenzyloxy tetrahydro 2H pyran 25.5 mg 0.1 mmol and KCO 27.6 mg 0.2 mmol . After stirring at 80 C. under Nfor 16 hr the mixture was concentrated and recrystallized with PE EA to afford 40 mg 80 of 5 amino 1 5 nitro 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy methyl phenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 512.2.

To a solution of 5 amino 1 5 nitro 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy methyl phenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 690 mg 1.3 mmol in 10 mL of CHCN was added hydrochloric acid 3 mL . After stirring at RT for 15 min the mixture was concentrated to afford 550 mg 95 of 5 amino 1 2 hydroxyl methyl 5 nitrophenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide as a yellow solid.

To a solution of 5 amino 1 2 hydroxymethyl 5 nitrophenyl 3 4 phenoxy phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 550 mg 1.24 mmol in 20 mL of DCM was added MnO 500 mg 5.75 mmol . After stirring at RT for 16 hr the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to afford 400 mg 73 of 5 amino 1 2 formyl 5 nitrophenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide as a yellow solid.

To a solution of 5 amino 1 2 formyl 5 nitrophenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 400 mg 0.9 mmol in 5 mL of CHOH and 5 mL of DCM was added HOAc 1 drops . After stirring at RT for 16 hr the mixture was concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with PE EA to afford 240 mg 63 of 8 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 425.8.

To a solution of 8 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide 240 mg 0.57 mmol in 10 mL of EtOH and 10 mL of DCM was added NaBH 86 mg 2.26 mmol at RT. After stirring at RT for 20 min 10 mL of water was added. The mixture was concentrated. 5 mL of water was added and filtered. The cake was washed with tert Butyl methyl ether 30 mL and dried to afford 200 mg 83 of 8 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 427.9.

To a solution of 8 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide 200 mg 0.47 mmol in 30 mL of CHOH and 30 mL of DCM was added 10 w w Pd C 100 mg . After stirring at RT for 1 hr the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to afford 130 mg 70 of crude 8 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide and 8 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 398.0 395.9.

To a solution of the mixture of 8 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydro pyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide and 8 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide 130 mg 0.33 mmol in 10 mL of DCM and 10 mL of CHOH was added NaBH 277 mg 3.3 mmol . After stirring at RT for 15 min 50 mL of water was added. The mixture was concentrated and filtered. The cake was washed with water 50 mL 2 to afford 60 mg 46 of 8 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.60 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.44 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.28 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.14 7.16 m 4H 6.81 s 1H 6.52 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.43 s 1H 5.16 s 2H and 4.37 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 397.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 68 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.26 s 1H 7.39 7.63 m 4H 7.52 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.45 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.19 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.14 7.07 m 4H 7.01 s 1H 6.44 dd J 10.4 17.0 Hz 1H 6.26 dd J 1.6 17.0 Hz 1H 5.77 dd J 1.6 10.4 Hz 1H and 4.51 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 451.9.

To a solution of 2 2 fluoro 5 nitrophenyl acetic acid 2.0 g 10 mmol in THF 50 mL was added borane dimethyl sulfide complex solution 4.0 g 25 mmol . The reaction was warmed to 60 C. stirred for about 12 hr. After cooling down to RT CHOH 20 mL was slowly added to the reaction concentrated under reduced pressure to remove solvent. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 200 300 mesh PE EA 2 1 to afford the product as a colorless oil 1.6 g 86.1 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.27 t J 3.2 6.4 Hz 1 H 8.19 8.14 m 1 H 8.45 t J 9.2 Hz 1 H 4.80 t J 5.6 Hz 1 H 3.66 dt J 5.6 6.4 Hz 1 H 2.86 t J 6.4 Hz 2 H . MS ESI m e M 1 186.

To a solution of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 30 mg 0.10 mmol in DMF 5.0 mL was added KCO 28 mg 0.20 mmol followed by 2 2 fluoro 5 nitrophenyl ethanol 37 mg 0.20 mmol . The mixture was warmed to 80 C. stirred for about 16 hr. After cooling down to RT the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 15 mL and water 15 mL the aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10 mL . The combined organic phases were washed brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered concentrated and purified by Pre TLC DCM CHOH 20 1 to afford the product about 5.0 mg 11.1 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.35 t J 4.0 Hz 1 H 8.28 d J 2.8 Hz 1 H 8.22 dd J 2.8 9.2 Hz 1 H 8.12 d J 9.2 Hz 1 H 7.64 7.60 m 2 H 7.45 7.41 m 2 H 7.22 7.17 m 1 H 7.14 7.09 m 4 H 3.72 3.65 m 2 H 3.29 3.24 m 2 H . MS ESI m e M 1 442.

To the solution of 8 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H benzo f pyrazolo 1 5 a 1 3 diazepine 3 carboxamide 80 mg 0.18 mmol in ethanol 20 mL was added 10 w w Pd C 20 mg the reaction was stirred at RT under Hfor about 3 hr. Filtered and washed with CHOH 20 mL the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure the residue was purified by Pre TLC DCM CHOH 20 1 to afford the product as a white solid 20 mg 26.8 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.73 7.69 m 1H 7.59 7.55 m 2H 7.45 7.40 m 3H 7.21 7.16 m 1H 7.13 7.07 m 4H 6.59 6.54 m 1H 6.50 6.47 m 1H 5.70 5.40 br s 2H 3.64 3.59 m 2H 2.99 2.94 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 412.

The desired compound was prepared from compound 71 and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.25 s 1H 7.95 t J 4.0 Hz 1H 7.76 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.65 7.58 m 4H 7.46 7.41 m 2H 7.21 7.17 m 1H 7.13 7.08 m 4H 6.44 dd J 10.0 16.8 Hz 1H 6.27 dd J 2.0 16.8 Hz 1H 5.77 dd J 2.0 10.0 Hz 1H 3.68 3.65 m 2H 3.05 3.03 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 466.

To a solution of 2 2 fluoro 5 nitrophenyl acetic acid 1.0 g 5.0 mmol in CHOH 20 mL was added con. HSO 0.50 mL the reaction was warmed to 80 C. and stirred for about 3 hr. After cooling down to RT the reaction was poured into water 20 mL and concentrated to remove CHOH. The aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 mL the combined organic phases were washed brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the product about 1.0 g 93.4 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m e M 1 214.0.

To a solution of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 30 mg 0.10 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added KCO 28 mg 0.20 mmol and methyl 2 2 fluoro 5 nitrophenyl acetate 21 mg 0.10 mmol . The mixture was warmed to 80 C. stirred for about 16 hr. After cooling down to RT the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove solvent. The residue was portioned with DCM 10 mL and water 10 mL the aqueous was extracted with DCM 2 10 mL the combined organic phases were washed sat. Sodium chloride 10 mL dried over anhydrous Sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by pre TLC DCM CHOH 20 1 got the product about 10 mg 21.9 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.66 br s 1H 8.51 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 8.37 dd J 2.6 9.2 Hz 1H 8.07 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 7.85 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.65 7.53 br s 2H 7.45 7.40 m 2H 7.22 7.16 m 1H 7.12 7.05 m 4H 3.92 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 456.1.

Compound 74 was prepared from 8 nitro 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H benzo f pyrazolo 1 5 a 1 3 diazepine 3 carboxamide according to the procedure similar to that for compound 71. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.72 7.67 m 2H 7.52 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.42 7.37 m 2H 7.19 7.14 m 1H 7.11 7.05 m 4H 6.80 dd J 2.6 8.8 Hz 1H 6.69 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 3.59 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 426.1.

Compound 75 was prepared from 8 amino 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H benzo f pyrazolo 1 5 a 1 3 diazepine 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.85 7.79 m 3H 7.75 7.71 m 2H 7.43 7.37 m 2H 7.20 7.14 m 1H 7.12 7.06 m 4H 6.50 6.35 m 2H 5.81 dd J 2.6 9.0 Hz 1H 3.75 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 480.1.

A mixture of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 220 mg 0.75 mmol methyl 2 chloro 5 nitrobenzoate 160 mg 0.75 mmol and KCO 155 mg 1.13 mmol in DMF 10 mL was heated to 80 C. for 16 hr under N. The reaction was poured into water 30 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO concentrated under reduced pressure to a residue which was purified by a silica gel column eluting with 10 to 50 EA in PE to afford 85 mg 27.3 of 7 nitro 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 442.1.

Compound 77 was prepared from 7 nitro 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydro pyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide according to the procedure similar to that for compound 71. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.88 br s 1H 7.80 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.71 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 7.36 7.42 m 2H 7.27 s 1H 7.02 7.17 m 6H 5.62 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 412.1.

Compound 78 was prepared from 7 amino 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a quinazoline 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride according to the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.37 s 1H 10.77 s 1H 8.65 s 1H 8.24 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.15 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.85 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.48 7.52 m 2H 7.2 7.15 m 5H 6.57 dd J 9.2 18.0 Hz 1H 6.37 d J 18.0 Hz 1H 5.87 d J 9.2 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 466.1.

The desired product was prepared from methyl 2 chloro 4 nitrobenzoate and 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide using the procedures similar to those for compound 76 and 77. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.61 s 1H 7.77 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.71 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.44 7.36 m 2H 7.19 7.02 m 6H 6.64 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.55 br s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 412.1.

To a stirred mixture of 1 tert butoxycarbonyl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid 1.15 g 5 mmol and DMAP 61 mg 0.5 mmol in DCM 50 mL was added DCC 1.14 g 5.5 mmol and 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxane 4 6 dione 0.8 g 5.5 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 16 hr and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford tert butyl4 2 2 dimethyl 4 6 dioxo 1 3 dioxane 5 carbonyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 2 g crude as a yellow oil which was used in the next step without further purification. MS ESI m e M 23 378.1.

A solution of tert butyl 4 2 2 dimethyl 4 6 dioxo 1 3 dioxane 5 carbonyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 2 g 5.63 mmol in ethanol 50 ml was refluxed for 20 h then the solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with DCM to afford 0.5 g 30 of tert butyl 4 3 ethoxy 3 oxopropanoyl piperidine 1 carboxylate as a reddish oil. MS ESI m e M 23 322.2.

A mixture of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxamide 412 mg 1.4 mmol and tert butyl 4 3 ethoxy 3 oxopropanoyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 420 mg 1.4 mmol in HOAc 20 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 16 hr. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue was partitioned between aq. NaHCOand ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by Pre HPLC eluting from 25 to 90 CHCN in 0.1 TFA in HO. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and lyophilized overnight to afford 5 oxo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 7 piperidin 4 yl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 0.3 g 50 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.71 br s 1H 8.68 8.65 m 1H 8.42 8.39 m 1H 7.74 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.47 7.41 m 2H 7.22 7.18 m 1H 7.14 7.09 m 4H 5.72 s 1H 3.50 3.35 m 2H 3.17 3.06 m 1H 3.01 2.87 m 2H 2.15 2.05 m 2H 1.83 1.72 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 430.1.

The desired product was prepared from compound 80 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.74 s 1H 7.75 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.47 7.41 m 2H 7.20 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.12 7.09 m 4H 6.85 dd J 10.6 16.6 Hz 1H 6.12 dd J 2.4 16.6 Hz 1H 5.76 s 1H 5.69 dd J 2.4 10.6 Hz 1H 4.63 4.58 m 1H 4.24 4.20 m 1H 3.15 3.05 m 2H 2.69 2.63 m 1H 1.99 1.91 m 2H 1.61 1.58 m 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 483.9.

A mixture of ethyl 1 benzyl 4 hydrazinylpiperidine 4 carboxylate hydrochloride 350 mg 1.0 mmol 2 methoxy 4 phenoxyphenyl methylene malononitrile 276 mg 1.0 mmol and KCO 414 mg 3.0 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was heated to reflux for 16 hr. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give the crude product 280 mg 58.9 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 475.9.

A solution of 1 benzyl 2 oxo 6 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 dihydrospiro imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 4 piperidine 7 carbonitrile 200 mg 0.42 mmol in HPO 15 mL was heated to 120 C. for 2 hr. The solution was poured to water 10 mL and extracted with EA 10 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the crude product 120 mg 58.0 as an off white solid. MS ESI m e M 1 493.9.

To a solution of 1 benzyl 2 oxo 6 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 dihydrospiro imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 3 4 piperidine 7 carboxamide 120 mg 0.24 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was added 10 w w Pd OH C 5 mg and stirred for 16 hr under H. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give the crude product 280 mg 58.9 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 403.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 82 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.91 s 1H 7.71 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.47 7.37 m 2H 7.25 br s 1H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.08 7.02 m 4H 6.88 dd J 16.6 10.4 Hz 1H 6.80 br s 1H 6.16 d J 16.6 Hz 1H 5.72 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 4.32 4.14 m 1H 4.12 3.99 m 1H 3.97 3.81 m 1H 3.76 3.60 m 1H 1.86 1.91 m 4H . MS ESI m e M 1 457.9.

To a solution of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 83 mg 0.3 mmol in HOAc 2 mL was added sodium 2 nitro 1 3 dioxopropan 2 ide 47 mg 0.3 mmol . After stirring at RT for 1 hr water 2 mL was added. The mixture was partitioned between EA 25 mL and brine 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 25 mL 2 dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 90 mg of 6 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 84 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 358.2.

To a solution of 6 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 90 mg 0.25 mmol in 2 mL of ethanol and 2 mL of DCM was added NaBH 19 mg 0.5 mmol at RT. After stirring at RT for 30 min 5 mL of water was added. The mixture was concentrated. The residue was partitioned between 50 mL of DCM and 50 mL of brine. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL 2 dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 50 mg of 6 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 55 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 362.1.

To a solution of 6 nitro 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 600 mg 1.67 mmol in 30 mL of methanol and 10 mL of DCM was added 10 w w Pd C 100 mg . The mixture was stirred at RT under Hfor 2 hr and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with PE EA to afford 200 mg 36 of 6 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a white solid. MS ESI m e M 1 332.1.

The desired product was prepared from 6 amino 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.53 7.48 m 2H 7.46 7.40 m 2H 7.22 7.16 m 1H 7.11 7.03 m 4H 6.58 br s 1H 4.15 4.08 m 1H 3.72 3.67 m 1H 3.40 3.30 m 2H and 3.06 2.98 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 350.2.

The desired product was prepared from compound 84 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.47 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.52 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.18 dd J 7.2 7.6 Hz 1H 7.09 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.67 br s 1H 6.34 dd J 10.0 17.2 Hz 1H 6.15 dd J 2.0 17.2 Hz 1H 5.63 dd J 2.0 10.0 Hz 1H 4.32 4.40 m 1H 4.22 dd J 4.8 12.4 Hz 1H 3.91 dd J 4.8 12.4 Hz 1H 3.40 m 1H and 3.26 dd J 5.2 Hz J 12.0 Hz 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 404.1.

To a solution of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 276 mg 1.0 mmol in EtOH 10 mL was added ethyl 2 formyl 3 oxopropanoate 144 mg 1.0 mmol and HOAc 5 drops . After stirring at RT for 16 hr the mixture was filtered. The cake was washed with HO 10 mL 2 and dried to afford 250 mg 65 of ethyl 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 6 carboxylate as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 384.9.

To a solution of ethyl 3 cyano 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 6 carboxylate 250 mg 0.65 mmol in DCM 5 mL and CHOH 5 mL was added NaBH 250 mg 6.5 mmol . After stirring at RT for 16 hr the mixture was partitioned between DCM CHOH 100 mL 5 mL and brine 100 mL . The organic layer was separated from aqueous layers dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 250 mg 100 of 6 hydroxymethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile. MS ESI m e M 1 346.9.

The desired product was prepared form 6 hydroxymethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. MS ESI m e M 1 364.9.

To a solution of isoindoline 1 3 dione 74 mg 0.5 mmol in THF 20 mL was added PPh 393 mg 1.5 mmol and 6 hydroxymethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 180 mg 0.5 mmol . DIAD 253 mg 1.25 mmol was added dropwise at 0 C. and stirred for 10 min. The mixture was allowed to warm to it and stirred for 16 hr. Concentrated and purified by chromatography column on 5 g of silica gel eluting with DCM CHOH to afford 200 mg 62 of 6 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl methyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 493.9.

To a solution of 6 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl methyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 200 mg 0.40 mmol in CHOH 5 mL was added hydrazine hydrate 1 mL 80 of aqueous solution . The mixture was stirred at 70 C. under Nfor 4 hr concentrated and purified by chromatography column on 5 g of silica gel eluting with DCM CHOH to afford 63 mg 43 of 6 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide as colorless oil. MS ESI m e M 1 363.9.

The desired product was prepared form 6 aminomethyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.31 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.51 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.04 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.61 s 1H 6.25 dd J 17.1 10.1 Hz 1H 6.11 dd J 17.1 2.2 Hz 1H 5.62 dd J 10.1 2.2 Hz 1H 4.07 dd J 12.4 6.0 Hz 1H 3.73 dd J 12.4 8.0 Hz 1H 3.41 3.34 m 1H 3.27 3.21 m 2H 3.09 2.96 m 1H 2.37 2.24 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 417.9.

To a solution of diethyl 2 2 bis hydroxymethyl malonate 4.4 g 20 mmol in CHCN 50 mL was added TfO 7.1 mL 11.85 g 42 mmol at 20 C. followed by two batches of DIEA 6.45 g 50 mmol . After 0.5 hr benzylamine 3.21 g 35 mmol was added at 20 C. The mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 2 hr. 100 mL of EA and 100 mL of brine were added. Organic layers were dried over NaSO. Purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with PE EA to afford 4.8 g 82 of diethyl 1 benzylazetidine 3 3 dicarboxylate as a yellow oil. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.29 7.34 m 2H 7.22 7.27 m 3H 4.17 q J 7.2 Hz 4H 3.56 s 2H 3.51 s 4H 2.39 s 3H and 1.17 t J 7.2 Hz 6H .

To a solution of diethyl 1 benzylazetidine 3 3 dicarboxylate 4.8 g 16.5 mmol in CHOH 10 mL was added NaBH 1.25 g 33 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT for 1 hr. 100 mL of brine and 200 mL of DCM were added. Organic layers were separated from aqueous layers dried over NaSO concentrated to afford 2.328 g 68 of 1 benzylazetidine 3 3 diyl dimethanol as a yellow oil. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.21 7.31 m 5 H 4.15 4.05 m 2 H 3.48 d J 4.8 Hz 2H 3.17 d J 4.8 Hz 4 H and 2.89 s 2 H .

To a solution of 1 benzylazetidine 3 3 diyl dimethanol 50 mg 0.24 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added TEA 222 mg 2.2 mmoL and MsCl 249 mg 2.2 mmol . After stirring for at RT for 4 hr the mixture was concentrated. The residue was partitioned between brine 100 mL and EA 100 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine 100 mL 2 dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 300 mg 83 of crude 1 benzylazetidine 3 3 diyl bis methylene dimethanesulfonate as a yellow oil. MS ESI m e M 1 363.9.

To a solution of 1 benzylazetidine 3 3 diyl bis methylene dimethanesulfonate 300 mg 0.83 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 230 mg 0.83 mmol and KCO 230 mg 1.66 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 80 C. under Nfor 16 hr. The mixture was concentrated. The residue was washed with HO 100 mL 2 dried and purified by pre TLC DCM CHOH 10 1 to afford 30 mg 10 of desired product as a yellow liquid. MS ESI m e M 1 447.9.

The desired product was prepared from 1 benzyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 7 dihydro 4 H spiro azetidine 3 6 pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. MS ESI m e M 1 465.9.

To a solution of 1 benzyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 5 7 dihydro 4 H spiro azetidine 3 6 pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 200 mg 0.43 mmol in 10 mL of DCM and 10 mL of CHOH was added 10 w w Pd C 100 mg . After stirring at RT under Hfor 16 hr the mixture was filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by pre HPLC eluting from 25 to 90 CHCN in 0.1 TFA in HO. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and lyophilized overnight to afford 30 mg 19 of desired product as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.94 br s 1H 8.84 br s 1H 7.50 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.18 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.81 br s 1 H 4.23 s 2 H 3.90 4.00 m 2 H 3.78 3.87 m 2 H and 3.47 s 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 375.9.

The desired product was prepared from compound 87 and acryloyl chloride using the procedure similar to that for compound 8. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD d 7.49 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.41 7.32 m 2H 7.14 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.05 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.04 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 6.35 dd J 16.8 10.1 Hz 1H 6.25 dd J 16.8 1.6 Hz 1H 5.74 dd J 10.1 1.6 Hz 1H 4.20 4.27 m 4 H 3.92 3.98 m 2 H and 3.54 s 2 H . MS ESI m e M 1 429.9.

A mixture of 5 amino 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 28 mg 0.1 mmol 2 bromomalonaldehyde 15 mg 0.1 mmol in EtOH 5 mL was stirred at RT for 2 hr. Then the mixture was filtered to give the crude product 20 mg 62.9 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.89 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.95 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.08 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.52 7.43 m 2H 7.27 7.19 m 3H 7.15 d J 7.6 Hz 2H . MS ESI m e M 1 391.9.

A mixture of 6 bromo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 500 mg 1.28 mmol 2 aminophenylboronic acid 175 mg 1.28 mmol CsCO 623 mg 1.92 mmol and Pd PPh 74 mg 0.06 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 30 mL and water 1.0 mL was heated to 80 C. for 16 hr under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel using 50 of EA in PE as eluant to give the crude product 320 mg 59.1 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 403.9.

To a solution of 6 2 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 320 mg 0.79 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was added NaBH 86 mg 2.28 mmol . The solution was stirred at it for 30 min then was poured into water 50 mL and extracted with EA 50 mL 3 . The organic combined layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the crude product 240 mg 75 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 406.0.

The desired product was prepared from 6 2 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 8 for compound 68. MS ESI m e M 1 407.9.

The desired product was prepared from 6 2 aminophenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.58 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.53 7.44 m 2H 7.24 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.19 7.09 m 4H 7.06 7.99 m 2H 6.84 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 6.74 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.61 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.20 s 2H 4.24 dd J 4.0 12.0 Hz 1H 4.07 dd J 12.0 12.0 Hz 1H 3.56 3.41 m 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 425.9.

The desired product was prepared from 6 bromo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile and 3 aminophenylboronic acid according to the similar procedures step 2 to 5 for compound 89 under appropriate conditions recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.59 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.52 7.45 m 2H 7.24 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.15 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.12 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.07 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.85 br s 1H 6.62 6.54 m 3H 5.23 br s 2H 4.24 dd J 12.0 4.8 Hz 1H 4.09 t J 12.0 Hz 1H 3.56 3.50 m 1H 3.40 3.35 m 1H 3.28 3.19 m 1H . MS ESI m e M 1 425.9.

To a solution of 6 bromo 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 782 mg 2.0 mmol in dioxane 10 mL and HO 10 mL was added 3 hydroxyphenylboronic acid 276 mg 2.0 mmol Pd PPh 240 mg 0.2 mmol and NaCO 424 mg 4.0 mmol . After stirring at 65 C. under Nfor 16 hr the mixture was concentrated and 100 mL of DCM 10 mL of CHOH 100 mL of HO were added. Organic layers were separated from aqueous layers and dried over NaSOand purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with DCM CHOH to afford 500 mg 62 of 6 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile as a yellow solid. MS ESI m e M 1 404.9.

The desired product was prepared from 6 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 3 for compound 89. MS ESI m e M 1 406.9.

The desired product was prepared from intermediate in the last step using the procedure similar to step 4 for compound 89. MS ESI m e M 1 408.9.

The desired product was prepared from 6 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile using the procedure similar to step 2 for compound 2. MS ESI m e M 1 426.9.

The desired product was prepared from 6 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide and 2 chloro N N dimethylethanamine hydrochloride using the procedure similar to step 7 for compound 9. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.52 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 7.38 m 2H 7.29 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.10 7.05 m 4H 6.98 6.96 m 2H 6.90 6.88 m 1H 6.81 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4.25 4.20 m 1H 4.16 4.11 m 3H 3.50 3.47 m 1H 3.43 3.38 m 2H 2.96 2.84 m 2H and 2.43 s 6H . MS ESI m e M 1 497.9.

A mixture of E 4 bromobut 2 enoic acid 500 mg 3.03 mmol tert butyl 2 piperazin 1 yl ethyl caramate 694 mg 3.03 mmol and EtN 612 mg 6.06 mmol in 20 mL of THF was stirred at RT for 15 h. The mixture was concentrated and used in the next step without further purification. MS ESI m e M 1 314.0.

A solution of 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 7 piperidin 4 yl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 2.0 g 4.8 mmol in MeOH HO 3 1 110 mL was warmed to 50 C. and stirred for about 20 min until all starting material dissolved then to solution was added a solution of L DBTA 600 mg 1.6 mmol in MeOH HO 3 1 10 mL the solution was stirred at 50 C. for about 30 min then slowly cooled to 40 C. about 2 h . To the solution was added crystal seed 10 mg . The mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 2 h then slowly cooled to ambient temperature and stirred for about 48 h. Filtered the solid was washed with MeOH HO 3 1 5 mL dried under reduced pressure to give the product as a white solid about 1.1 g 38 yield 93 ee value . The solid 500 mg was added to the solvent of THF HO 1 1 20 mL the solution was warmed to 70 C. and stirred for about 1 h until all solid dissolved then slowly cooled to 40 C. 3 h and added crystal seed 10 mg after stirring for about 2 h the solution was slowly cooled to ambient temperature and stirred for about 48 h. Filtered solid was washed with water 4 mL dried under reduced pressure to give the product as a white solid about 330 mg 65 yield 99.5 ee value as its L DBTA salt. Suitable single crystal of this L DBTA salt was obtained by slow cooling in MeOH HO 1 1 v v . Configuration of chiral carbon in freebase was determined to be S. The DBTA salt was converted to the free base by using aqueous NaOH solution and extracting with DCM.

A mixture of S 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 7 piperidin 4 yl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 1.26 g 3.03 mmol E 4 4 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino ethyl piperazin 1 yl but 2 enoic acid 948.4 mg 3.03 mmol HATU 1.21 g 3.18 mmol DIEA 782 mg 6.06 mmol in 30 mL of DMF was stirred at RT for 15 hr. The mixture was poured into 300 mL of water and extracted with EA 100 mL . The organic phase was washed with water 100 mL 3 and concentrated to give 1.25 g 58 of product as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.50 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.42 t J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.17 t J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.12 7.02 m 4H 6.67 br s 1H 6.64 6.53 m 3H 4.53 4.40 m 1H 4.14 4.05 m 1H 3.32 3.25 m 2H 3.10 2.91 m 5H 2.45 2.15 m 1H 2.10 2.00 m 1H 1.96 1.84 m 1H 1.78 1.65 m 1H 1.62 1.50 m 1H 1.37 s 9H 1.31 1.10 m 3H . MS ESI m e M 1 713.0.

To a solution of S E tert butyl 2 4 4 4 3 carbamoyl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl piperidin 1 yl 4 oxobut 2 en 1 yl piperazin 1 yl ethyl carbamate 150 mg 0.21 mmol in 10 mL of DCM was added 2 mL of TFA. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 15 hr and concentrated to remove the solvent. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. MS ESI m e M 1 613.0.

A mixture of S E 7 1 4 4 2 aminoethyl piperazin 1 yl but 2 enoyl piperidin 4 yl 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide trifluoroacetate 129 mg 0.21 mmol crude N BIOTINYL NH PEG 2 COOH DIEA 118 mg 0.21 mmol HATU 80 mg 0.21 mmol TEA 63.6 mg 0.63 mmol in 5 mL of DMF was stirred at 40 C. for 15 hr. The mixture was concentrated and purified by Pre HPLC to afford 160 mg 60 of product as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.04 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 7.80 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.76 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.50 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.42 t J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.18 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.12 7.03 m 4H 6.89 6.77 m 1H 6.62 6.51 m 1H 6.44 s 1H 4.55 4.40 m 1H 4.35 4.27 m 1H 4.17 3.95 m 3H 3.74 3.60 m 2H 3.55 3.44 m 9H 3.41 3.27 m 10H 3.14 3.02 m 9H 2.82 dd J 12.4 5.0 Hz 1H 2.65 2.53 m 3H 2.36 2.18 m 1H 2.13 2.00 m 7H 1.96 1.85 m 1H 1.80 1.67 m 3H 1.66 1.55 m 6H 1.55 1.40 m 3H 1.38 1.21 m 4H . MS ESI m e M 1 1155.0 M 23 1176.9.

A mixture of compound 180 60 mg 0.124 mmol cyclopropanecarbaldehyde 43.4 mg 0.62 mmol and piperdine 52.7 mg 0.62 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was stirred at RT for 15 h. After concentration to the residue was added EA 50 mL and water 50 mL . The organic phase was concentrated and purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with DCM MeOH 50 1 to afford 30 mg 45 of desired compound as a white solid. MS ESI m e M 1 537.0.

To a solution of S 2 4 phenoxyphenyl 7 piperidin 4 yl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carboxamide 417 mg 1 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added NaHCO 168 mg 2 mmol and water 5 mL followed by BrCN 127 mg 1.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT for 16 h. To the mixture was added DCM 50 mL and brine 20 mL . The organic phase was further washed with brine 100 mL dried over NaSO. Concentrated and purified by Pre TLC DCM MeOH 50 1 to afford 330 mg 75 of white solid. MS ESI m e M 1 443.0.

A variety of other compounds have been prepared by methods substantially similar to those of above described Examples. The characterization data for some of these compounds are summarized in Table 1 below and include LC MS observed chiral HPLC and H NMR data.

Compounds disclosed herein were tested for inhibition of Btk kinase activity in an assay based on time resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer methodology. Recombinant Btk was pre incubated with the compounds disclosed herein at room temperature for 1 hour in an assay buffer containing 50 mM Tris pH7.4 10 mM MgCl 2 mM MnCl 0.1 mM EDTA 1 mM DT 20 nM SEB 0.1 BSA 0.005 tween 20. The reactions were initiated by the addition of ATP at the concentration of ATP Km and peptide substrate Biotin AVLESEEELYSSARQ NH2 . After incubating at room temperature for 1 h an equal volume of stop solution containing 50 mM HEPES pH7.0 800 mM KF 20 mM EDTA 0.1 BSA Eu cryptate conjugated p Tyr66 antibody and streptavidin labeled XL665 was added to stop the reaction. Plates were further incubated at room temperature for 1 hour and then the TR FRET signals ex337 nm em 620 nm 665 nm were read on BMG PHERAstar FS instrument. The residual enzyme activity in presence of increasing concentrations of compounds was calculated based on the ratio of fluorescence at 615 nm to that at 665 nm. The ICfor each compound was derived from fitting the data to the four parameter logistic equation by Graphpad Prism software.

Btk pY223 cellular assay is a HTRF based assay intended to determine the endogenous levels of phosphorylated Btk at Tyr223. Phosphorylated Tyr223 is necessary for full activation of Btk. The assay was performed in Ramos cells CRL 1596 ATCC with a Btk pY223 assay kit 63IDC000 Cisbio .

Briefly Ramos cells were serum starved in 0.5 FBS containing RPMI1640 for 2 hours. Following starvation the cells were incubated with compounds to be detected at various concentrations in a CO2 incubator for 1 hour. After incubation cells were stimulated with 1 mM pervanadate PV or NaVO OV for 20 min. Then the cells were spinned down and lysed with 1 lysis buffer at RT for 10 min 4 lysis buffer supplied in the kit . During the incubation 1 antibody mix was prepared by diluting anti Btk d2 and anti pBtk K in detection buffer supplied in the kit . 2 ul well of 1 antibody mixture was dispensed into the OptiPlate 384 assay plate 6005620 Perkin Elmer . After that 18 ul of cell lysate was transferred to the assay plate pre loaded with antibody solution. After mixing gently and spinning briefly the plate was sealed up and kept in dark at RT for 18 hours. The fluorescence emission was measured at two different wavelengths 665 nm and 620 nm on a compatible HTRF reader PHERAstar FS BMG . The potency of compounds was calculated basing on the inhibition of ratio between signal intensities at 665 nm and 620 nm. IC50 values were calculated with GraphPad Prism software using the sigmoidal dose response function.

Representative compounds as disclosed herein were tested and found to inhibit Btk and autophosphorylation of Btk at Tyr 223 with IC50 values ranging from subnanomolar to 10 micromolar.

