---

title: Smart hazard detector providing follow up communications to detection events
abstract: Ambient amount of a hazardous condition may be monitored. A mode may be set to a state indicative of the hazardous condition being present in the ambient environment. It may then be determined that the amount of the hazard in the ambient environment has dropped below an alarm criterion. A time period may then be tracked during which the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has remained below the alarm criterion. It may be determined that the time period has reached at least a threshold duration, during such time period the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector having remained below the alarm criterion. An indication of the hazardous condition easing may be output in response to the time period being at least the threshold duration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189946&OS=09189946&RS=09189946
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09189946
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150209
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 508 146 filed Oct. 7 2014 entitled Smart Home Hazard Detector Providing Useful Follow Up Communications To Detection Events now U.S. Pat. No. 8 988 232 issued Mar. 24 2015 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 969 filed Oct. 7 2013 entitled User Friendly Detection Unit and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 963 filed Oct. 7 2013 which are each hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

A conventional smoke or carbon monoxide alarm likely provides no indication that a hazardous condition is present until a loud alarm is sounded. Such an arrangement may be annoying to a user when the alarm has been triggered accidentally. For example a small amount of smoke generated by cooking may be enough to trigger a smoke alarm to sound. The user may then have to remedy the condition that caused the alarm by airing out the room in which the smoke alarm is located to clear the smoke and or by actuating a button on the alarm to silence it. Further the user may be left guessing as to whether the remediation actions being taken by the user are sufficient to alleviate the conditions that initially triggered the alarm to sound.

This document relates to systems devices methods and related computer program products for smart buildings including the smart home. More particularly this patent specification relates to detection units such as hazard detection units e.g. smoke detectors. carbon monoxide sensors etc. or other monitoring devices that are useful in smart building and smart home environments.

Methods systems devices apparatuses and processor readable mediums are presented for alerting users to easing hazardous conditions. Once a threshold level of a hazardous condition has been realized e.g. smoke carbon monoxide a hazard detector may monitor for the hazardous condition to drop below a same or different threshold level. Once the drop occurs an amount of time may be waited. Once a defined time period has elapsed and the hazard condition has not risen above a threshold level an indication may be output that indicates the hazardous condition is easing. The defined time period may be based on various factors including the type of hazard readings from other hazard detectors and or a measured humidity level to name only a few examples.

In some embodiments a method for detecting that a hazardous condition is easing is presented. The method may include measuring by a hazard detector a first amount of the hazardous condition present in an ambient environment of the hazard detector. The method may include setting by the hazard detector a mode of the hazard detector to a state indicative of the hazardous condition being present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The method may include measuring by a hazard detector a second amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector the second amount of the hazardous condition being less than the first amount of the hazardous condition. The method may include determining by the hazard detector that the second amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector is below a threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The method may include tracking by the hazard detector a time period during which the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has remained below the threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The method may include determining by the hazard detector that the time period has reached at least a threshold duration during such time period the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector having remained below the threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The method may include outputting by the hazard detector an indication of the hazardous condition easing in response to the time period being at least the threshold duration.

Such embodiments may include one or more of the following features An auditory indication may be output that comprises a spoken message indicative of the hazardous condition easing. The spoken message indicative of the hazardous condition easing may include a spoken indication of a name of a room in which the hazardous condition is easing. The method may include setting by the hazard detector the mode of the hazard detector to a second state indicative of the hazardous condition not being present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector in response to determining that the time period has reached at least the threshold duration. The method may include determining by the hazard detector the threshold duration based on a type of the hazardous condition. The hazardous condition may be selected from the group consisting of smoke and carbon monoxide. The threshold duration may vary based on whether the hazardous condition is smoke or carbon monoxide. The method may include determining by the hazard detector one or more event characteristics of the hazardous condition. The method may include determining by the hazard detector the threshold duration based on the one or more event characteristics of the hazardous condition. The method may include receiving by the hazard detector from one or more hazard detectors located in other rooms of a structure in which the hazard detector is installed information indicative of the hazardous condition. The method may include determining by the hazard detector the threshold duration based on the received information indicative of the hazardous condition from the one or more hazard detectors located in other rooms of the structure in which the hazard detector is installed. The method may include measuring by the hazard detector a humidity level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The method may include determining by the hazard detector the threshold duration based on the measured humidity level. The method may include sounding by the hazard detector an auditory alarm indicative of the hazardous condition being present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector.

In some embodiments a non transitory processor readable medium for a hazard detector is presented. The medium may include processor readable instructions configured to cause one or more processors of the hazard detector to perform any or all of the above steps detailed in relation to the methods.

In some embodiments a hazard detector is presented. The hazard detector may include a hazard sensor that measures amounts of a hazardous condition present in an ambient environment of the hazard detector. The hazard detector may include an output device that outputs information into the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The hazard detector may include a processing system that comprises one or more processors the processing system being in communication with the output device and the hazard sensor. The processing system may be configured to receive a first measurement of the first amount of the hazard present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The processing system may be configured to set a mode of the hazard detector to a state indicative of a hazardous condition being present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The processing system may be configured to receive a second measurement of a second amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector the second amount of the hazardous condition being less than the first amount of the hazardous condition. The processing system may be configured to determine that the second amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector is below a threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The processing system may be configured to track a time period during which the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has remained below the threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The processing system may be configured to determine that the time period has reached at least a threshold duration during such time period the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector having remained below the threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The processing system may be configured to cause the output device to output an indication of the hazardous condition easing in response to the time period being at least the threshold duration.

In some embodiments a hazard detector apparatus is presented. The apparatus may include means for measuring a first amount of the hazardous condition present in an ambient environment of the hazard detector. The apparatus may include means for setting a mode of the hazard detector to a state indicative of the hazardous condition being present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The apparatus may include means for measuring a second amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector the second amount of the hazardous condition being less than the first amount of the hazardous condition. The apparatus may include means for determining that the second amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector apparatus is below a threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The apparatus may include means for tracking a time period during which the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector apparatus has remained below the threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The apparatus may include means for determining that the time period has reached at least a threshold duration during such time period the amount of the hazardous condition present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector having remained below the threshold hazardous condition level while the mode of the hazard detector is set to the state indicative of the hazardous condition being present. The apparatus may include means for outputting an indication of the hazardous condition easing in response to the time period being at least the threshold duration.

Conventional hazard alarms typically make a loud noise when a hazardous condition such as smoke or carbon monoxide is detected. Oftentimes the hazardous condition is not dangerous enough for a user to abandon the structure. Rather the user may take steps to ameliorate the hazardous condition. For instance if the user burned food on a stove the user may open a window and turn on a fan or wave a towel to circulate air. As another example if a small fire has started the user may douse it with water. A conventional hazard alarm may continue making noise until the hazardous condition is no longer detected or the user pushes a button on the alarm to silence the alarm.

Rather than having a hazard detector have only binary states i.e. alarm on or off embodiments detailed herein describe hazard detectors that can inform users of not only when a hazardous condition is present but when that hazardous condition is rising and or easing. Such information may be useful to a user in deciding whether to evacuate a structure and or in determining if steps the user has taken to ameliorate the hazard are helping to dissipate the hazardous condition.

When embodiments of a hazard detector as detailed herein make an announcement which may involve sound and or light as to a hazardous condition easing various factors may be evaluated to determine when such an announcement should be made including the type of hazard the humidity characteristics of the detected hazard and or the number of hazard detectors that have detected the hazardous condition. Other factors are also possible. Based on such factors the hazard detector may determine if the hazard has been easing for a sufficient period of time to announce that the hazardous condition appears to be decreasing or has dissipated completed.

Further the ability to inform a user that a hazardous condition is easing may be used in conjunction with a multi state hazard detector. Rather than having the hazard detector have only two alarm states such as alarm and non alarm a hazard detector may have three or more states non alarm in which the hazard detector monitors the ambient environment for hazards pre alarm the hazard detector detects a small amount of a hazard the amount of the hazard being insufficient to sound the full alarm and alarm the hazard detector s alarm sounding for a greater amount of the hazard being detected . Such a pre alarm state may inform a user that the alarm is going to sound soon if the hazardous condition keeps getting worse. Such a pre alarm state may allow a user time to ameliorate the hazardous condition before having a full alarm sound. When the state of the hazard detector is downgraded an announcement as to the easing of the hazardous condition may be made.

Hazard sensor may detect one or more types of hazards. Hazard sensor may detect smoke as a signal that fire is present or carbon monoxide as two examples. Hazard sensor may provide processing system with an indication of an amount of a hazard detected in the ambient environment of hazard detector . Processing system may be configured to analyze the indication of the amount of the hazard detected by hazard sensor .

Hazard monitor engine of processing system may receive indications of the amount of a hazard detected in the ambient environment of hazard detector from hazard sensor . Hazard detector may be configured to be set into multiple states such as detailed in relation to . Based upon the comparison to one or more threshold values hazard monitor engine may provide input to state engine which may track which state hazard detector is currently in. For instance when a first threshold value is exceeded state engine may be set to a pre alarm state. If a second threshold value of detected hazard is exceeded state engine may be set to an alarm state.

Hazard monitor engine and state engine may be in communication with messaging engine . Messaging engine may determine one or more auditory and or visual messages to be output to a user based upon input from state engine and or hazard monitor engine . For instance when messaging engine determines that the state of hazard detector has entered a pre alarm state messaging engine may cause output device to provide an auditory and or visual indication to a user that the amount of a hazard in the environment is rising. When messaging engine determines that the state of hazard detector has exited an alarm state or a pre alarm state messaging engine may cause output device to provide an auditory and or visual announcement to a user that the amount of a hazard in the environment is easing.

Output device may be configured to output light or sound into the ambient environment of the hazard detector. Output device may be a speaker that is capable of outputting human speech. Output device may alternatively be one or more lights that can output one or more colors and one or more animation patterns. In some embodiments multiple output devices are present such as to output light and sound to indicate a pre alarm state an alarm state and or when a hazardous condition has eased.

Processing system of hazard detector may include multiple submodules. Such submodules may be implemented using hardware firmware and or software that is executed by underlying hardware such as one or more processors. Such modules may include state engine hazard monitor engine messaging engine hazard thresholds time period monitor and time period decision data . For instance such modules may represent code that is executed by a high level processor and or a low level of hazard detector .

Hazard monitor engine may receive indications of the amount of a hazard detected in the ambient environment of hazard detector from carbon monoxide sensor and smoke sensor . State engine of hazard detector may be configured to be set into multiple states such as detailed in relation to . Based upon the comparison to one or more threshold values from hazard thresholds hazard monitor engine may provide input to state engine and or messaging engine .

Hazard monitor engine and state engine may be in communication with messaging engine . Messaging engine may determine one or more auditory and or visual messages to be output to a user based upon input from state engine and or hazard monitor engine . For instance when messaging engine determines that the state of hazard detector has entered a pre alarm state messaging engine may cause output device to provide an auditory and or visual indication to a user that the amount of a hazard in the environment is rising. When messaging engine determines that the state of hazard detector has exited an alarm state or a pre alarm state messaging engine may cause output device to provide an auditory and or visual indication to a user that the amount of a hazard in the environment is easing.

Hazard monitor engine may compare the received levels of a hazard to threshold values of stored hazard thresholds . A first threshold value may be defined to determine when state engine should be placed into a pre alarm mode. A second threshold value may be defined to determine when state engine should be placed into an alarm mode. A third threshold value may be defined to determine when state engine should be returned from the alarm mode to the pre alarm mode or to a non alarm mode and or to determine when the hazardous condition is easing. Such thresholds present in hazard thresholds may be selected based on the type of hazard and or other conditions.

Time period monitor may be used in conjunction with hazard monitor engine to determine when the state maintained by state engine should be decreased from an alarm mode to a pre alarm mode or to a non alarm mode and or when an announcement should be made that the hazardous condition is easing. For instance it may be required that the amount of the hazard detected in the environment of hazard detector remain below a threshold amount stored by hazard thresholds for at least a period of time before the state of the hazard detector is downgraded. The period of time may vary based on multiple factors such as the type of hazard the number of hazard detectors that detected the hazard characteristics of the hazard and or humidity level detected by hazard detector . Time period monitor may monitor an amount of time for which the detected hazard level as received by hazard monitor engine has remained below a threshold defined in stored hazard thresholds . Time period monitor may also determine the duration of the period of time by accessing time period decision data and assessing one or more factors associated with the hazard. For instance time period monitor may retrieve a predefined duration for the period of time from time period decision data based on the type of hazard. This predefined duration may be adjusted based on various parameters such as the humidity level in the ambient environment of hazard detector . Time period decision data may contain indications of how the period of time should be lengthened if the hazard has been detected by multiple hazard detectors located within a structure in which hazard detector is installed. Further time period decision data may store information indicative of how long the detected level of hazard is required to be below the threshold value based on characteristics of the detected hazard. For instance the level of detected hazard having increased rapidly may result in a different period of time than if the level of detected hazard increased slowly. Based upon analyzing the detected level of hazard in the environment and time period decision data time period monitor may determine when state engine should downgrade its state from alarm or pre alarm. Messaging engine may output an indication that the hazardous condition is easing based upon the state of state engine being downgraded or time period monitor directly informing messaging engine that an indication of the condition easing should be output.

Light sensor detects the presence of light in the ambient environment of hazard detector . Light sensor may detect a brightness level in the ambient environment of hazard detector . Such a brightness level may be affected by natural and artificial lighting. Light sensor may provide an indication of the brightness level in the ambient environment of hazard detector to processing system . Light may represent a light integrated into hazard detector that outputs light to the external environment around hazard detector . Light may be controlled by processing system . Light may include one or more lighting elements such as light emitting diodes LEDs . Light may be capable of outputting various illumination modes that can include multiple colors multiple animation patterns and or such multiple animation patterns at varying speeds. The at least one color animation pattern and speed of animation output by light may be determined based on a determination performed by processing system . Therefore based on conditions monitored by processing system light may be illuminated or disabled. When light is illuminated the one or more colors animation pattern and or speed of the animation output by light may vary based on a determination performed by processing system .

Presence detector may detect a presence or motion within the ambient environment of hazard detector . Presence detector may include one or more passive infrared PIR sensors and or ultrasonic sensors that receive infrared radiation or reflected ultrasonic sound from the ambient environment of the hazard detector. For instance a user walking or otherwise moving in the vicinity of hazard detector emits infrared radiation which may be detected by presence detector . In other embodiments presence detector may use some other form of sensor than a PIR sensor. Presence detector may provide an indication to processing system of when motion is present in the ambient environment of hazard detector . More generally presence detector may be a form of sensor that can detect a user s presence even if motionless. In some embodiments presence detector outputs raw data that is analyzed by processing system to determine if motion is present or a user is otherwise present. In some embodiments motion may be analyzed to determine if it likely corresponds to a person or is incidental e.g. a pet an object being warmed by sunlight etc. .

In hazard detector two hazard sensors are present carbon monoxide sensor and smoke sensor . In some embodiments multiple versions of each of these types of sensors can be present. For instance an ionization and a photoelectric smoke sensor may be present in hazard detector . When carbon monoxide sensor senses carbon monoxide or smoke sensor senses smoke indication may be sent to a processor of processing system . An indication of an alarm condition may be transmitted to a low level processor that triggers an alarm to sound and or a light color and or animation to be output by light . This low level processor may trigger light directly to illuminate in a state indicative of a hazard or may provide input to a high level processor that is part of processing system that triggers a lookup of an illumination definition to determine an appropriate color animation and or speed of animation to use for illumination of light . Regardless of whether the high level or low level processor is used a different color animation and or speed may be used for carbon monoxide as compared to smoke. In some embodiments both the low and high level processors are capable of causing light to illuminate.

Wireless communication module may allow processing system to communicate with a wireless network present within the structure in which hazard detector is installed. For instance wireless communication module may communicate with a wireless network that uses the IEEE 802.11 a b g network protocol standard for communication. Wireless communication module may permit processing system to communicate with a remote server which may be maintained by a manufacturer of hazard detector or by a third party. The remote server may be configured to provide information to processing system about an account of a user associated with hazard detector . For instance if an account of the user maintained at the remote server requires attention from a user such indication may be provided to processing system via wireless communication module . Such indication may be provided by the remote server in response to inquiry from processing system made to the remote server. Further processing system may transmit status information to a remote server. Such an arrangement may permit a user to view status information about the hazard detector by logging in to the remote server via a computing device and accessing the user account.

Wireless communication module may also permit direct connection with a wireless computerized device. For instance wireless communication module may create a wireless area network e.g. WiFi network that a computerized wireless device such as a tablet computer or smartphone can connect with. Once connected messages may be exchanged between processing system via wireless communication module and a wireless computerized device such as to permit an initial configuration of hazard detector to be performed via the computerized wireless device. In other embodiments such an initial configuration is performed via a network connection through a router or other form of direct communication such as Bluetooth or WiFi Direct .

Wireless communication module may also allow for communication with one or more other hazard detectors installed within the same structure as hazard detector . For instance hazard detectors may be installed within various rooms within a structure. Each hazard detector may store an indication of the type of room it is installed within. These hazard detectors may be configured to alert each other when a hazard is detected. As such while a hazard may be detected by another hazard detector hazard detector may alert a user to the presence of the hazard in the other room. When a hazard is present hazard detector may receive indications from other hazard detectors indicative of whether that hazard detector is also sensing the hazard. Hazard detectors that are not sensing the hazard may not provide such an indication or may transmit a message indicative of the hazard not being detected.

User input component may represent a component that receives input that can be passed to processing system . User input component may take the form of a button or switch on hazard detector . By depressing the button or otherwise actuating user input component a user can provide input via user input component to processing system . For instance user input component may be used by a user to disable an alarm being sounded by hazard detector . User input component may be encircled or have its perimeter otherwise outlined by light that is by the light itself and or by light output by light . Therefore when light is active and the user desires to provide input e.g. to silence an alarm the user may touch or push hazard detector within the area defined by light and or the light output by light .

Hazard detector may include battery based power source and structure power source . Structure power source may be used to power hazard detector when such power is available. Structure power source may represent a hard wired connection within a structure e.g. house building office etc. that provides an AC or DC power to one or more hazard detectors located throughout the structure. While the AC or DC power may be available a significant percentage of time e.g. 99.5 of the time it may be desirable for hazard detector to continue functioning if structure power is unavailable e.g. during a power failure . As such battery based power source may also be present. Battery based power source may include one or more batteries which power the various components of hazard detector when structure power source is not available. In some embodiments of hazard detector structure power source is not present and or the hazard detector may not be capable of connected with structure power source . As such hazard detector may permanently rely on battery based power source to power components of hazard detector . Structure power source and battery based power source are illustrated in as connected with processing system . It should be understood that while structure power source and battery based power source are illustrated as only connected with processing system this is for simplicity of illustration only structure power source and or battery based power source may be connected to the various components of hazard detector as necessary to power such components.

Audio output device and light may represent different forms of output device of hazard detector . Audio output device may be a speaker that is configured to output sound. Audio output device may be capable of outputting synthesized or recorded speech thus allowing spoken messages to be output to users in the vicinity of hazard detector . Audio output device may receive vocal messages to be output from messaging engine . Other sounds such as an alarm buzzing or ringing may also be generated by audio output device . Audio output device may include a piezo sound generator configured to generate a very loud alarm sound.

Humidity sensor may detect humidity level in the ambient environment of hazard detector . An indication of the detected humidity level may be provided to processing system . This humidity level may be used to determine the time period for which the detected level of hazard is required to be below a threshold value before the state of hazard detector is downgraded and or an announcement is made that the hazardous condition has eased. Microphone may be used to detect sound the vicinity of hazard detector . For instance spoken commands by user may be received by microphone and processed by processing system .

Temperature sensor may be used by hazard detector to monitor the ambient temperature of hazard detector . Temperature measurements made by temperature sensor may be used in controlling when HVAC systems are turned on or off.

Flow occurring may result in the hazard detector outputting an indication that the hazardous condition is easing. In some embodiments in addition to the level of detected hazard falling below a threshold the level of detected hazard may be required to remain below the threshold for predefined period of time which may vary based on several factors before flow is followed and then indication of the hazardous condition easing being output by the hazard detector. In some embodiments flow results in a synthesized spoken message being output by hazard detector that indicates for example Type of Hazard is easing. The Type of Hazard may vary based on if smoke or carbon monoxide was detected. As another example the hazard detector may indicate the room in which the hazard detector is located. For example the hazard detector may output Type of Hazard is easing in the room . A user may have previously provided the hazard detector with room designation in which the hazard detector is installed such as a bedroom kitchen bathroom etc.

If the level of hazard detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector decreases such as below the first threshold amount or below some other defined threshold amount flow may be followed to downgrade the state of the hazard detector from pre alarm state to non alarm state . Flow may result in a message being output by the hazard detector that is indicative of the hazardous condition easing. If the level of hazard detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector increases such as above a second threshold amount greater than the first threshold amount pre alarm state may be upgraded to alarm state . In alarm state an auditory and or visual alarm may be sounded and or illuminated respectively by the hazard detector. The amount of hazard detected in the environment of the hazard detector may continue to be monitored.

If the amount of hazard decreases below the second threshold amount or some other defined threshold amount flow may be followed to downgrade the state of the hazard detector back to pre alarm state . Alternatively flow may be followed to downgrade the state of the hazard detector from alarm state to non alarm state . Based on either flow or flow occurring the message may be output by the hazard detector that indicates that the hazard condition is easing. Whether flow or is followed may depend on how much the level of detected hazard has fallen in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. In some embodiments only flows and are available for downgrading the state of the hazard detector. In other embodiments only flows and are available for downgrading the state of the hazard detector. A message being output to a user indicative of the hazardous condition easing may be assigned to any or all of flows . For instance for flow a message may indicate that the hazardous condition has started to ease while a message for flow may indicate that the hazardous condition has eased further.

As with state flow A in addition to the detected level of hazard being required to fall below one or more threshold amounts in order for the state of the hazard detector to be downgraded the detected level of hazard may be required to stay below the threshold amount for at least a period of time prior to the state of the hazard detector being downgraded. This period of time may be determined based on one or more factors as discussed in relation to method of .

If the level of hazard detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector decreases such as below the first threshold amount or below some other defined threshold amount flow may be followed to downgrade the state of the hazard detector from first pre alarm state to non alarm state . Flow may result in a message being output by the hazard detector that is indicative of the hazardous condition easing. If the level of hazard detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector increases such as above a second threshold amount first pre alarm state may be upgraded to second pre alarm state . In second pre alarm state the full alarm of the hazard detector may still not sound nor be lit. However a message such as a spoken synthesized or recorded message may be output to a user that indicates that a level of hazard in the environment is still rising. This message may be more urgent than the message associated with first pre alarm state . In some embodiments recommendations may be made to the user as to how to deal with the continued rising level of the hazard. In some embodiments a light of the hazard detector may be illuminated to indicate the second pre alarm state .

If the detected hazard level increases above a third threshold amount second pre alarm state may be upgraded to alarm state . In alarm state an auditory and or visual alarm may be sounded and or illuminated respectively by the hazard detector. The level of hazard detected in the environment of the hazard detector may continue to be monitored.

Flows and represent various flows of a state of the hazard detector being downgraded. In some embodiments when the detected level of a hazard drops below a threshold value the hazard detector may be downgraded to the non alarm state . In other embodiments the hazard detector may downgrade its state through one or more pre alarm states based on the detected hazard level being less than one or more threshold amounts. For instance as the detected hazard level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector decreases alarm state may be downgraded to second pre alarm state according to flow second pre alarm state may be downgraded to first pre alarm state following flow and first pre alarm state may be downgraded to non alarm state via flow . Further depending on the detected level of hazard various states may be skipped. For instance alarm state may be downgraded to first pre alarm state via flow . Similarly second pre alarm state may be downgraded to non alarm state via flow . Alarm state may also be downgraded directly to non alarm state via flow .

The threshold values used to determine when to downgrade states of the hazard detector may be the same threshold values used to determine when states of the hazard detector are upgraded. For instance a same threshold value may be used to determine when first pre alarm state should be upgraded to second pre alarm state as when second pre alarm state should be downgraded to first pre alarm state . Alternatively the thresholds used for upgrading and downgrading states may vary from each other. For instance a first threshold value may be used to determine when first pre alarm state should be upgraded to second pre alarm state but a second threshold smaller in magnitude than the first may be used to determine when second pre alarm state should be downgraded to first pre alarm state .

A message being output to indicate that a hazardous condition is easing may be associated with all or any of flows and . In some embodiments it may be desirable for only one easing message to be output such as when the state of the hazard detectors downgraded to non alarm state . In other embodiments it may be desirable to indicate that the hazardous condition has started to ease such as at flow or flow and later be followed by another message indicating that the hazardous condition has further eased such as at flow .

As with state flows A and B in addition to the detected level of hazard being required to fall below one or more threshold amounts in order for the state of the hazard detector to be downgraded the detected level of hazard may be required to stay below the threshold amount for at least a period of time prior to the state of the hazard detector being downgraded. This period of time may be determined based on one or more factors as discussed in relation to method of .

While not illustrated in or any of the other state flows it may be possible for a state to be upgraded and skip one or more other states. For instance if a high enough level of a hazard is detected non alarm state may be upgraded directly to alarm state . State flows A B and C focus on hazard detectors that have two three and four states respectively. It should be understood that in other embodiments a greater number of states may also be possible. In some embodiments hazard detectors may have a different number of states depending on the type of hazard detected. For instance state flow A may be used for when carbon monoxide is detected while state flow B or C may be used for when smoke is detected.

Various methods may be performed by a hazard detector using the states detailed in relation to . illustrates an embodiment of a method for detecting an easing of a hazardous condition. Method may be performed using hazard detector hazard detector or some other embodiment of a hazard detector. Each step of method may generally be performed by a hazard detector. Throughout method one or more sensors of the hazard detector may continue to monitor for and measure amounts of hazardous conditions such as smoke and or carbon monoxide in the ambient environment of the hazard detector.

At step a hazardous condition may be determined to be present in the environment of a hazard detector. Such a determination may be made based on one or more measured amounts of the hazardous condition being compared to a stored threshold value. The hazard may involve the presence of smoke which can be indicative of fire carbon monoxide or some other condition or compound that is potentially dangerous to occupants present in the structure in which the hazard detector is installed. At step the hazard detector may be receiving measurements of the amount of detected hazard in the environment of the hazard detector from one or more sensors of the hazard detector. In response to the threshold value being exceeded by the measured amount of the hazardous condition method may proceed to step . Otherwise if no amount of the hazardous condition is measured by the hazard detector the hazard detector may continue to monitor for such a hazardous condition until one is detected.

At step a state of the hazard detector may be set to be indicative of the hazardous condition being present. Referring back to step may involve the hazard detector being set from a non alarm state to either a pre alarm state or an alarm state. In indication of the current state of the hazard detector may be stored by the processing system of the hazard detector such as to a non transitory storage medium associated with a state engine. While step and later steps of method are being performed the hazard detector may continue to monitor for hazards in the ambient environment of the hazard detector.

At step the hazard detector may determine that the amount of the hazardous condition in the ambient environment is now below a threshold value. This determination may be based on one or more measurements of hazard level made after step was performed. Therefore the amount of hazardous condition in the environment of the hazard detector may have decreased since step . The threshold used at step to determine that the hazardous condition is present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector may be the same threshold amount used in the analysis of step . Alternatively the threshold values used may differ. For example the threshold amount used at step may be smaller in magnitude than the threshold amount used to determine that the hazardous condition was present at step .

At step following the amount of the hazardous condition being below the threshold a period of time for which measurements of the hazardous condition has remained below the threshold value may be tracked. If the amount of hazard detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector exceeds the threshold the time period may be reset.

Whether an alarm of the hazard detector is sounding during steps and may be dependent on whether the state set at step was a pre alarm state or an alarm state. If an alarm state one or more auditory and or visual alarms may be output by the hazard detector while steps and are being performed. If a pre alarm state the hazard detector may be taking no action or may be outputting a warning pre alarm message indicative of the hazard detector being in the pre alarm state. If a warning pre alarm message is output in the pre alarm state the warning will likely be less loud and or intrusive to a user than auditory and or visual outputs by the hazard detector in the alarm state. For instance the warning pre alarm message may be a spoken message that states Warning the hazard level is rising. 

At step it may be determined that the period of time which was tracked at step has reached at least a threshold duration. The threshold duration may be stored by the hazard detector. For instance the threshold duration may be based on the type of hazard. If smoke was determined to be present at step a first threshold duration may be used. If carbon monoxide was determined to be present at step a second threshold duration may be used instead. In some embodiments rather than a stored threshold duration being defined the hazard detector may calculate or otherwise modify the threshold duration based on one or more factors at least some of which are discussed in relation to .

At step the hazard detector may output one or more indications of the hazardous condition easing. The output of step may be performed in response to the period of time being determined to have reached the threshold duration of step . The indications of the hazardous condition easing may include an auditory message which may include a spoken message and a visual indication such as a light of the hazard detector illuminating a color that is not typically associated with a hazard such as green or blue. Additionally in response to the period of time having reached at least the threshold duration of step the state of the hazard detector may be downgraded such as in accordance with the embodiments of . For example from an alarm state the hazard detector may be downgraded to either a non alarm state or pre alarm state. If the hazard detector was set to a pre alarm state at step the hazard detector may be set to a non alarm state. Further it is possible in some embodiments that a period of time does not need to be evaluated before an easing announcement is output rather the easing announcement is output in response to the level of detected hazard dropping below a threshold amount only.

At step a hazardous condition may be determined to be present in the environment of a hazard detector. Such a determination may be made based on one or more measured levels of a hazardous condition being compared to a stored threshold value. The hazard may involve the presence of smoke which can be indicative of fire carbon monoxide or some other condition or compound that is potentially dangerous to occupants present in the structure in which the hazard detector is installed. At step the hazard detector may be receiving measurements of the amount of detected hazard in the environment of the hazard detector from one or more sensors of the hazard detector.

At step a state of the hazard detector may be set to be indicative of the hazardous condition being present. Referring back to step may involve the hazard detector being set from a non alarm state to either a pre alarm state or an alarm state. An indication of the current state of the hazard detector may be stored by the processing system of the hazard detector such as to a non transitory storage medium. While step and later steps of method are being performed the hazard detector may continue to monitor for hazards in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. At step depending on the state of the hazard detector the hazard detector may be outputting one or more visual and or auditory indications. If the hazard detector is in a pre alarm state the hazard detector may output a warning that the amount of hazard in the ambient environment of the hazard detector is rising and illuminate a light to be indicative of the pre alarm state. If the hazard detector is in the alarm mode the hazard detector may sound the alarm and illuminate a light to be indicative of the alarm state.

At step while continuing to monitor the amount of the hazardous condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector the hazard detector may determine that the amount of the hazardous condition in the ambient environment is now below a stored threshold value. This determination may be based on one or more measurements of hazard level made after step was performed. Therefore the amount of the hazardous condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector may have decreased since step . The first threshold value used at step to determine that the hazardous condition was present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector may be the same stored threshold value used in the determination of step . Alternatively the two threshold values may be different. For example the threshold value used at step may be smaller in magnitude than the threshold value used to determine that the hazardous condition was present at step .

At step in response to the amount of the hazardous condition being determined to be below the stored threshold value a period of time for which measurements of the hazardous condition have remained below the threshold value may be tracked. If the amount of hazard detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector exceeds a threshold value which could be the threshold used at step or the time period may be reset restarted and or additional steps may be taken such as sounding an alarm or making an announcement that the amount of hazard in the environment is rising.

At step a threshold duration may be determined based on one or more factors. The threshold duration may be determined using the type of hazard detected the number of hazard detectors that have detected the hazard the state of the hazard detector characteristics of the hazard and or a measured humidity level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The hazard detector may have stored data indicative of how a threshold duration should be determined in view of such factors. Further detail regarding how the threshold duration can be determined is presented in relation to method of . It should be understood that rather than being performed following step step may also be performed at some time prior to step .

At step it may be determined that the period of time which was tracked at step has reached at least the threshold duration determined at step . The period of time may cease being tracked once step is performed. In response to step step may be performed.

At step the hazard detector may output one or more indications of the hazardous condition easing in response to step being performed. The indications of the hazardous condition easing may include an auditory message which may include a synthesized or recorded spoken message and or a visual indication such as a light of the hazard detector illuminating a color that is not typically associated with a hazard such as green or blue.

At step in response to the period of time having reached at least the threshold duration of step and or step having been performed the state of the hazard detector may be downgraded such as in accordance with the embodiments of . For example from an alarm state the hazard detector may be set to either a non alarm state or a type of pre alarm state. If the hazard detector was set to a pre alarm state at step the hazard detector may be set to a non alarm state. Method may then return to step to monitor for hazards. If the hazard detector is to be set to a pre alarm state from an alarm state or other pre alarm state such as flows or of method may follow the dotted path and perform step in lieu of step . At step the state of the hazard detector may be set to the downgraded state of a pre alarm condition. A different threshold amount may be used for the evaluation of step when performing method again. Further the threshold duration may be determined to have a different duration based on the current state of the hazard detector.

At step a type of hazard detected may be determined. For each particular type of hazard a default or minimum threshold duration value may be stored by or be otherwise accessible to the hazard detector. For instance a fire smoke hazard may be associated with a first duration while a carbon monoxide hazard may be associated with a second different duration. The type of hazard may be determined based on for example the type of hazard that exceeded the threshold of step of method . In some embodiments if multiple hazards are present a third threshold duration may be selected.

At step an amount of ambient humidity may be determined using one or more humidity sensors of the hazard detector. For instance humidity sensor of hazard detector may be used to determine the ambient humidity level. The humidity level may be assessed for a current value and or to determine whether the humidity level is rising or falling. The hazard detector may store a table or other data storage arrangement that relates ranges of humidity levels to an indication of the threshold duration. For instance the hazard detector may store a table or other data storage arrangement that indicates that if the detected humidity level is between 10 20 the threshold duration may be increased by one minute. In some embodiments an algorithm is stored to calculate how the threshold duration should be set based on the detected humidity level. The threshold duration may also be set or adjusted based on whether the ambient humidity level is rising or falling. While step is focused on humidity it should be understood that temperature may be additionally or alternatively used in determining the threshold duration. Additionally or alternatively carbon monoxide levels may be measured. The level of detected carbon monoxide may be used to adjust the threshold duration and or a level of sensitivity to smoke .

At step the hazard detector via a wireless or wired communication module may receive one or more indications of other hazard detectors located within the same structure as the hazard detector indicative of whether the same or different hazard is being detected in those locations. If a hazard is detected in multiple locations within a structure such as in different rooms it may be indicative that the hazardous condition is widespread in the structure and may be more likely to be a significant safety concern. The hazard detector may receive signals from other hazard detectors that indicates whether or not a hazard has been detected by such other hazard detectors. In some embodiments the hazard detector may store indications of the locations and or numbers of hazard detectors that are installed within the same structure as the hazard detector. If no indication is received from such hazard detectors it may be assumed that such hazard detectors are not sensing the presence of the hazard. In some embodiments the hazard detector may poll other hazard detectors to determine levels of the hazardous condition in other locations within the structure. The presence of multiple different types of hazards within the structure may also be determined by the hazard detector by receiving data from other hazard detectors. The threshold duration may be set or adjusted based on in which other locations the hazard was detected the level of the hazard detected in other locations and or at how many hazard detectors the hazard was detected. In some embodiments an easing message may not be output by the hazard detector until the hazard level remains below the threshold amount for at least the threshold duration at every hazard detector within the structure in which the hazard detector is installed.

At step characteristics of the hazardous condition may be evaluated. These characteristics may be used to set or adjust the threshold duration. For instance characteristics of the hazardous condition may involve a determination of the rapidity with which the amount of the hazard increased in the ambient environment of the hazard detector e.g. slow smoldering fire or fast smoky fire the maximum amount of the hazardous condition detected the mean media amount of the hazardous condition detected other hazardous conditions detected during the same time period the amount of time for which the hazardous condition has been detected etc. In some embodiments the hazardous condition may be compared to stored profiles of various types of hazardous conditions such as grease fires electrical fires furnace carbon monoxide leakage etc. to classify the hazardous condition. The profile selected and or the characteristics analyzed may be used to set or adjust the threshold duration.

At step at least some of the factors determined in relation to steps through and possibly additional factors may be used in determining the threshold duration. In some embodiments a default threshold duration is used as a starting point and is then adjusted based on the factors at step . For instance the presence of a factor e.g. two other hazard detectors having detected the hazard may involve the threshold duration being increased by a predefined amount of time such as three minutes. Such adjustments that can be implemented based on such factors may be stored by the hazard detector such as in the form of a look up table. In some embodiments an algorithm may take each of the determined factors into account to calculate a threshold duration. The longer the duration the longer the amount of time that must elapse with the amount of hazard remaining below the threshold value before the hazard detector outputs an indication that the amount of the hazard in the environment of the hazard detector is easing.

At step the ambient environment of the hazard detector may be monitored for hazards. At this step the hazard detector may be set to a non alarm state. The hazard detector may monitor for multiple types of hazards including smoke and carbon monoxide. It should be understood that throughout method one or more sensors of the hazard detector may continue to monitor for levels of hazards if any present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. For instance referring to hazard detector carbon monoxide sensor and smoke sensor may provide hazard measurements to processing system for analysis.

At step it may be determined if a hazardous condition is present in the environment of a hazard detector. Such a determination may be made based on one or more measured levels of a hazardous condition being compared to a stored threshold value. The hazard may involve the presence of smoke which can be indicative of fire carbon monoxide or some other condition or compound that is potentially dangerous to occupants present in the structure in which the hazard detector is installed. Referring to hazard detector of for example hazard monitor engine may determine that a hazard is present by comparing a measured value from either carbon monoxide sensor or smoke sensor to a corresponding threshold value from hazard thresholds . If the measured hazardous condition meets and or exceeds a first threshold value method may proceed to step otherwise the hazard detector continues to monitor for hazardous conditions at step .

At step a state of the hazard detector may be set to be indicative of the hazardous condition being present. Referring back to step may involve the hazard detector being set from a non alarm state to a pre alarm state. An indication of the current state of the hazard detector may be stored by the processing system of the hazard detector such as to a non transitory storage medium. While step is being performed and later steps of method are being performed the hazard detector may continue to monitor for hazards in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. Referring to hazard detector of for example state engine may have its state set to a pre alarm state e.g. a first pre alarm state a second pre alarm state .

At step the hazard detector may be outputting one or more visual and or auditory indications. The hazard detector has been set to a pre alarm state based on the detected hazard level of step the hazard detector may output an auditory warning which may include a message containing speech stating that the amount of hazard in the ambient environment of the hazard detector is rising and illuminate a light to be indicative of the pre alarm state. For example such a light may be illuminated using a color typically associated with a problem or hazard such as yellow or red.

The hazard detector may continue to monitor the hazard level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector at step . The hazard detector may monitor the level of detected hazard to determine if it exceeds a second threshold value which is representative of a greater amount of the hazard being present than the first threshold value used at step or if the amount of hazard falls below a third threshold value which may match the first threshold value or may be a smaller in magnitude than the first threshold value. If the amount of hazard remains between the second and third threshold value method may remain at step until one of the threshold values is met. Referring to the hazard detector may be in pre alarm state . If the second threshold is exceeded the state of the hazard detector will transition to alarm state . If the third threshold is met the state of the hazard detector may transition to non alarm state following one or more other conditions being met .

If the hazardous condition worsens at step and the level of hazard detected by the hazard detector exceeds the second threshold value method may proceed to step . At step a state of the hazard detector may be set to an alarm state. An indication of the alarm state of the hazard detector may be stored by the processing system of the hazard detector such as to a non transitory storage medium. At step and auditory and or a visual alarm may be output to alert the user to the alarm state. The hazard detector may output an alarm sound and or an auditory message which may include speech stating that the amount of hazard in the ambient environment of the hazard detector is dangerous and illuminate a light to be indicative of the alarm state. For example such a light may be illuminated a color typically associated with a problem or hazard such as yellow or red. An animation indicative of the severity of the hazard may also be output such as by flashing the light rapidly.

At step after the auditory and or visual alarm has been sounding for a period of time the hazard detector may determine that the hazardous condition has decreased below the third threshold value. In response to the hazardous level decreased below the third threshold value method may proceed to step . Returning to step if is determined that the hazardous condition meets or falls below the third threshold value method may proceed to step without performing steps through . As such at the start of step the hazard detector may be set to either a pre alarm state or an alarm state.

At step in response to the amount of the hazardous condition being determined to be below the third threshold value a period of time for which measurements of the hazardous condition have remained below the threshold value may be tracked. For instance a counter of the hazard detector may be initiated or a timestamp may be created. If the amount of hazard detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector exceeds the third threshold value again the time period may be reset and or additional steps may be taken such as sounding an alarm or making an announcement that the amount of hazard in the environment is rising or returning to step or step .

At step a threshold duration may be determined based on one or more factors. The threshold duration may be determined using the type of hazard detected the number of hazard detectors that have detected the hazard the state of the hazard detector characteristics of the hazard and or a measured humidity level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The hazard detector may have stored data indicative of how a threshold duration should be determined in view of such factors. Further detail regarding how the threshold duration can be determined is presented in relation to method of . It should be understood that rather than being performed following step step may also be performed at some time prior to step .

At step it may be determined that the period of time which was started to be tracked at step has reached at least the threshold duration determined at step . The period of time may cease being tracked once step is performed e.g. a counter may be disabled . In response to step step may be performed.

At step the hazard detector may output one or more indications of the hazardous condition easing in response to step being performed. The indications of the hazardous condition easing may include an auditory message which may include a synthesized or recorded spoken message and or a visual indication such as a light of the hazard detector illuminating a color that is not typically associated with a hazard such as green or blue. If a spoken message is output the message may indicate in which room the hazard detector is located. For instance the message may be Hazard is clearing in the room . Where hazard is the type of hazard smoke carbon monoxide etc. and room is the room that was designated as the location in which the hazard detector was installed by a user during a set up process. In some embodiments the hazard detector may communicate that the hazardous condition is easing to the other hazard detectors located within the same structure as in which the hazard detector is installed. Step may further include a chime or other sound being output to signal that the hazard is clear. In some embodiment a light pattern such as a pulse of green light is output by the hazard detector to be indicative of the hazard clearing. The auditory and or visual message may then be output through such other hazard detectors installed within the structure.

At step the state of the hazard detector may be downgraded such as in accordance with the embodiments of such as to a non alarm state. Method may then return to step to monitor for hazards in the non alarm state. In the non alarm state the hazard detector may not be outputting any visual and or auditory warnings regarding hazardous conditions.

Method is focused on a single pre alarm state being used however it should be understood that method may be applied to embodiments that have multiple pre alarm states such as state flow C of . For instance between steps and an additional iteration of steps through may be added to evaluate a second pre alarm state and output a warning corresponding to the second pre alarm state e.g. more urgent than a first pre alarm state but less urgent than an alarm state . Such a second pre alarm state may use a fourth threshold value different than the first threshold value to evaluate if the hazard detector has entered into the second pre alarm state. The second and third thresholds may still be used to determine if the hazard detector should enter an alarm state the hazardous condition worsens or indicate that the hazardous condition is easing and return to either a lower pre alarm state or the non alarm state.

Hazard detectors as detailed herein may be installed in a smart home environment. illustrates an example of a smart home environment within which one or more of the devices methods systems services and or computer program products described further herein can be applicable. The depicted smart home environment includes a structure which can include e.g. a house office building garage or mobile home. It will be appreciated that devices can also be integrated into a smart home environment that does not include an entire structure such as an apartment condominium or office space. Further the smart home environment can control and or be coupled to devices outside of the actual structure . Indeed several devices in the smart home environment need not physically be within the structure at all. For example a device controlling a pool heater or irrigation system can be located outside of the structure .

The depicted structure includes a plurality of rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that can integrate seamlessly with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives. The smart home environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats hereinafter referred to as smart thermostats one or more intelligent network connected hazard detectors and one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected entryway interface devices hereinafter referred to as smart doorbells . According to embodiments the smart thermostat detects ambient climate characteristics e.g. temperature and or humidity and controls a HVAC system accordingly. The hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous substance or a substance indicative of a hazardous substance e.g. smoke fire or carbon monoxide . The smart doorbell may detect a person s approach to or departure from a location e.g. an outer door control doorbell functionality announce a person s approach or departure via audio or visual means or control settings on a security system e.g. to activate or deactivate the security system when occupants go and come .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches hereinafter referred to as smart wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces hereinafter referred to as smart wall plugs . The smart wall switches may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states and control a power and or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances smart wall switches may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. The smart wall plugs may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs e.g. such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home .

Still further in some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances hereinafter referred to as smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth. According to embodiments the network connected appliances are made compatible with the smart home environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window AC units motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in an appliance can announce itself to the smart home network such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication by the appliance to the smart home can be facilitated by any wired or wireless communication protocols known by those having ordinary skill in the art. The smart home also can include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled albeit coarsely ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plugs . The smart home environment can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances such as infrared IR controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the hazard detectors or the smart wall switches .

According to embodiments the smart thermostats the hazard detectors the smart doorbells the smart wall switches the smart wall plugs and other devices of the smart home environment are modular and can be incorporated into older and new houses. For example the devices are designed around a modular platform consisting of two basic components a head unit and a back plate which is also referred to as a docking station. Multiple configurations of the docking station are provided so as to be compatible with any home such as older and newer homes. However all of the docking stations include a standard head connection arrangement such that any head unit can be removably attached to any docking station. Thus in some embodiments the docking stations are interfaces that serve as physical connections to the structure and the voltage wiring of the homes and the interchangeable head units contain all of the sensors processors user interfaces the batteries and other functional components of the devices.

The smart home environment may also include communication with devices outside of the physical home but within a proximate geographical range of the home. For example the smart home environment may include a pool heater monitor that communicates a current pool temperature to other devices within the smart home environment or receives commands for controlling the pool temperature. Similarly the smart home environment may include an irrigation monitor that communicates information regarding irrigation systems within the smart home environment and or receives control information for controlling such irrigation systems. According to embodiments an algorithm is provided for considering the geographic location of the smart home environment such as based on the zip code or geographic coordinates of the home. The geographic information is then used to obtain data helpful for determining optimal times for watering such data may include sun location information temperature due point soil type of the land on which the home is located etc.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of can further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet or other portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone . A webpage or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control and interact with the smart thermostat hazard detectors and other smart devices in the smart home environment using a network connected computer or portable electronic device . In some examples some or all of the occupants e.g. individuals who live in the home can register their device with the smart home environment . Such registration can be made at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. An occupant can use his registered device to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation. The occupant may also use his registered device to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant is sitting on a couch inside the home. It should be appreciated that instead of or in addition to registering devices the smart home environment makes inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which devices are associated with those individuals. As such the smart home environment learns who is an occupant and permits the devices associated with those individuals to control the smart devices of the home.

In some embodiments in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities each of the devices and collectively referred to as the smart devices is capable of data communications and information sharing with any other of the smart devices as well as to any central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The required data communications can be carried out using any of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. .

According to embodiments all or some of the smart devices can serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart devices via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet . Through the Internet the smart devices can communicate with a cloud computing system which can include one or more centralized or distributed server systems. The cloud computing system can be associated with a manufacturer support entity or service provider associated with the device. For one embodiment a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates can be automatically sent from cloud computing system to devices e.g. when available when purchased or at routine intervals .

According to embodiments the smart devices combine to create a mesh network of spokesman and low power nodes in the smart home environment where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Some of the smart devices in the smart home environment are battery powered while others have a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to wiring e.g. to 120V line voltage wires behind the walls of the smart home environment. The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source are referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the smart home environment as well as with the cloud computing system . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered are referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and can only communicate using wireless protocols that require very little power such as Zigbee 6LoWPAN etc. Further some but not all low power nodes are incapable of bidirectional communication. These low power nodes send messages but they are unable to listen . Thus other devices in the smart home environment such as the spokesman nodes cannot send information to these low power nodes.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the smart home environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment regularly send out messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to travel from node to node i.e. device to device throughout the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes in the smart home environment are able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or cloud computing system . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols are able to send messages across the entire smart home environment as well as over the Internet to cloud computing system . According to embodiments the mesh network enables cloud computing system to regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to one of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives described herein.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening. Accordingly users other devices and cloud computing system can communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user can use the portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone to send commands over the Internet to cloud computing system which then relays the commands to the spokesman nodes in the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the smart home environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the cloud computing system .

An example of a low power node is a smart nightlight . In addition to housing a light source the smart nightlight houses an occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic or passive IR sensor and an ambient light sensor such as a photodiode photoresistor phototransistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. In some embodiments the smart nightlight is configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark and when its occupancy sensor detects that someone is in the room. In other embodiments the smart nightlight is simply configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark. Further according to embodiments the smart nightlight includes a low power wireless communication chip e.g. ZigBee chip that regularly sends out messages regarding the occupancy of the room and the amount of light in the room including instantaneous messages coincident with the occupancy sensor detecting the presence of a person in the room. As mentioned above these messages may be sent wirelessly using the mesh network from node to node i.e. smart device to smart device within the smart home environment as well as over the Internet to cloud computing system .

Other examples of low powered nodes include battery operated versions of the hazard detectors . These hazard detectors are often located in an area without access to constant and reliable e.g. structural power and as discussed in detail below may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors flame detectors air quality sensors e.g. for VOCs particulate matter e.g. PM 2.5 allergens and other unhealthy contaminants such as NOx temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore hazard detectors can send messages that correspond to each of the respective sensors to the other devices and cloud computing system such as by using the mesh network as described above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart doorbells smart thermostats smart wall switches and smart wall plugs . These devices and are often located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore can include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols.

In some embodiments the mesh network of low powered and spokesman nodes can be used to provide exit lighting in the event of an emergency. In some instances to facilitate this users provide pre configuration information that indicates exit routes in the smart home environment . For example for each room in the house the user provides a map of the best exit route. It should be appreciated that instead of a user providing this information cloud computing system or some other device could automatically determine the routes using uploaded maps diagrams architectural drawings of the smart home house as well as using a map generated based on positional information obtained from the nodes of the mesh network e.g. positional information from the devices is used to construct a map of the house . In operation when an alarm is activated e.g. when one or more of the hazard detector detects smoke and activates an alarm cloud computing system or some other device uses occupancy information obtained from the low powered and spokesman nodes to determine which rooms are occupied and then turns on lights e.g. smart nightlights wall switches smart wall plugs that power lamps etc. along the exit routes from the occupied rooms so as to provide emergency exit lighting.

Further included and illustrated in the exemplary smart home environment of are service robots each configured to carry out in an autonomous manner any of a variety of household tasks. For some embodiments the service robots can be respectively configured to perform floor sweeping floor washing etc. in a manner similar to that of known commercially available devices such as the Roomba and Scooba products sold by iRobot Inc. of Bedford Mass. Tasks such as floor sweeping and floor washing can be considered as away or while away tasks for purposes of the instant description as it is generally more desirable for these tasks to be performed when the occupants are not present. For other embodiments one or more of the service robots are configured to perform tasks such as playing music for an occupant serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant serving as a localized baby monitor serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant and so forth it being generally more desirable for such tasks to be carried out in the immediate presence of the human occupant. For purposes of the instant description such tasks can be considered as human facing or human centric tasks.

When serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal health area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the air quality in the occupant s immediate space at healthy levels. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith other health related functions can be provided such as monitoring the temperature or heart rate of the occupant e.g. using finely remote sensors near field communication with on person monitors etc. . When serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal safety area network for the occupant with the objective being to ensure there is no excessive carbon monoxide smoke fire etc. in the immediate space of the occupant. Methods analogous to those described above for personal comfort area networks in terms of occupant identifying and tracking are likewise applicable for personal health area network and personal safety area network embodiments.

According to some embodiments the above referenced facilitation of personal comfort area networks personal health area networks personal safety area networks and or other such human facing functionalities of the service robots are further enhanced by logical integration with other smart sensors in the home according to rules based inferencing techniques or artificial intelligence techniques for achieving better performance of those human facing functionalities and or for achieving those goals in energy conserving or other resource conserving ways. Thus for one embodiment relating to personal health area networks the air monitor purifier service robot can be configured to detect whether a household pet is moving toward the currently settled location of the occupant e.g. using on board sensors and or by data communications with other smart home sensors along with rules based inferencing artificial intelligence techniques and if so the air purifying rate is immediately increased in preparation for the arrival of more airborne pet dander. For another embodiment relating to personal safety area networks the hazard detector service robot can be advised by other smart home sensors that the temperature and humidity levels are rising in the kitchen which is nearby the occupant s current dining room location and responsive to this advisory the hazard detector service robot will temporarily raise a hazard detection threshold such as a smoke detection threshold under an inference that any small increases in ambient smoke levels will most likely be due to cooking activity and not due to a genuinely hazardous condition.

Although in some examples provided herein the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from the smart devices of smart home environment of it should be appreciated that the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from a plurality of smart home environments across the world. For example cloud computing system can collect home data from the devices of one or more smart home environments where the devices can routinely transmit home data or can transmit home data in specific instances e.g. when a device queries the home data . Thus the devices and services platform routinely collects data from homes across the world. As described the collected home data includes for example power consumption data occupancy data HVAC settings and usage data carbon monoxide levels data carbon dioxide levels data volatile organic compounds levels data sleeping schedule data cooking schedule data inside and outside temperature humidity data television viewership data inside and outside noise level data etc.

Cloud computing system can further provide one or more services . The services can include e.g. software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . Data associated with the services can be stored at cloud computing system and cloud computing system can retrieve and transmit the data at an appropriate time e.g. at regular intervals upon receiving a request from a user etc. .

As part of services user accounts may be maintained by the cloud computing system . The user account may store subscription information billing information registration information user preferences and or other data associated with various smart home devices such as one or more hazard detectors installed within a structure that is linked with a user account. Occasionally attention of a user to his or her user account may be requested. In response to a query from hazard detector or other smart home device a message may be transmitted by the cloud computing system to hazard detector which may represent any of the previously described hazard detectors indicating that a status output by hazard detector should indicate that a user is requested to log in to his or her user account. Further detail regarding the requested log may be transmitted by service to hazard detector . For instance the reason for the requested login may be expired payment information such as an expired credit card . The user can request detail on a status output by hazard detector which may be presented to the user as a color and animation output via a light of hazard detector . The request for detail may be by performing a gesture within the vicinity of hazard detector . A spoken message may then be output by hazard detector indicating that the user is requested to log in to his account and may also indicate the reason of the payment information needing to be updated. As such a status check performed by hazard detector may not only check the status of hazard detector itself but also the state of a remotely maintained user account.

As illustrated in an embodiment of the extensible devices and services platform includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. The processing engine can include computerized engines e.g. software executed by hardware configured to receive data from devices of smart home environments e.g. via the Internet or a hubbed network to index the data to analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived home data .

Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings can be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines.

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the devices and services platform exposes a range of application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs may be coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with cloud computing system including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example the APIs allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by cloud computing system as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

Account alert engine may serve to determine whether a hazard detector should provide an indication that the user s account requires attention. For instance account alert engine may periodically assess the state of a user s account such as whether settings need updating whether payment information is up to date whether one or more messages are pending whether payment is due etc. If user attention is required upon a request being received from a hazard detector and a look up of the user s account being performed account alert engine may respond with an indication that the user account requires attention. Additional detail may also be provided such that if the user performs a gesture or otherwise requests additional detail such detail can be provided such as via an auditory message. If user attention is not required upon a request being received from a hazard detector and a look up of the user s account being performed e.g. by determining an account associated with the hazard detector from which the request was received account alert engine may respond with an indication that the user account does not require attention.

For example shows processing engine as including a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that e.g. and responding to an instance in which an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a light bulb having burned out implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics e.g. demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform. For example a user s status as reported to his trusted contacts on the social network could be updated to indicate when he is home based on light detection security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example a user may be able to share device usage statistics with other users. In yet another example a user may share HVAC settings that result in low power bills and other users may download the HVAC settings to their smart thermostat to reduce their power bills.

The processing engine can include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely e.g. reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involve participants turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

The processing engine can integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device e.g. outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood and so forth.

An extraordinary range and variety of benefits can be brought about by and fit within the scope of the described extensible devices and services platform ranging from the ordinary to the profound. Thus in one ordinary example each bedroom of the smart home environment can be provided with a smart wall switch a smart wall plug and or smart hazard detectors all or some of which include an occupancy sensor wherein the occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring e.g. by virtue of motion detection facial recognition audible sound patterns etc. whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a serious fire event is sensed the remote security monitoring service or fire department is advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom and whether those occupants are still asleep or immobile or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this is of course a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible devices and services platform there can be substantially more profound examples that can truly illustrate the potential of a larger intelligence that can be made available. By way of perhaps a more profound example the same bedroom occupancy data that is being used for fire safety can also be repurposed by the processing engine in the context of a social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus for example the same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the ordinary example can be collected and made available properly anonymized for processing in which the sleep patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated for example to different nutrition programs in local schools.

With reference to an embodiment of a special purpose computer system is shown. For example one or more intelligent components processing system and components thereof may be a special purpose computer system . Such a special purpose computer system may be incorporated as part of a hazard detector and or any of the other computerized devices discussed herein such as a remote server smart thermostat or network. The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that direct the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs computer system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into random access memory RAM . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of computer program product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Sun Microsystems LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks such as communication network and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet. Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

Preferably the voice advisories during emergency level alerts are interleaved in time during silent periods between loud shrieking tonal alarm patterns so as to comply with regulations such as National Fire Protection Association NFPA and Underwriters Laboratories UL standards that require a maximum silence period between tonal alarm patterns of 1.5 seconds Ref UL2034 UL217 NFPA72 and NFPA720 .

It should be understood that the above detailed illumination states and audio messages are merely exemplary. In various other embodiments the colors animations definitions and or audio messages may be modified.

In order to provide input to various embodiments of the hazard detectors detailed herein it may be possible to perform a gesture to provide input which may result in silencing nuisance alarms that is alarms triggered by a non hazardous condition e.g. burning toast . Within a distance of approximately 2 6 feet of the hazard detector a wave of a user s hand and arm can be detected. In some embodiments multiple waves must be performed for the gesture to be detected. As detailed in relation to some of the pre alert or alert states may silenced at least temporarily by using a wave gesture. In some situations as noted in certain situations preclude the alarm from being silenced. A wave gesture can also be used for canceling a manual test and or to hear a detailed message when a visual status is being presented via illumination. In some embodiments rather than performing a gesture a user may push a button or physically actuate some other part of the hazard detector.

If multiple hazard detectors are present all of the hazard detectors may output light and sound of a heads up pre alert or emergency alert situation is present. To silence an alarm either in the pre alert or alert state the user may be required to perform the gesture or push a button at the hazard detector that originally detected the hazard. Once the proper hazard detector is silenced each other hazard detector may be silenced based on wireless communication between the hazard detectors .

Referring to an exemplary situation of when a heads up pre alert state is used. A gentle heads up pre alert warns a user of a condition that has risen above normal but has not yet triggered a full alert emergency state. Sounds and messages output during a pre alert state are intended to be less irritating and urgent than messages during an alert state. By having such a pre alarm state users may be less likely to disable a hazard detector and thus the hazard detector may be more likely to be functioning when needed.

As an example at point the hazard detector is monitoring its ambient environment for hazards such as smoke and carbon monoxide. An increased level of carbon monoxide or smoke may be detected at point . At such point a pre alert message and illumination may be output to warn users of the impending conditions. Such a pre alert may involve a notable but non jarring in comparison to a shrieking emergency alarm sound bell or ringing sound. The notable but non jarring sound may be similar in intensity to the bell sound emitted by an elevator when arriving at the target floor which is enough to notify but not so much as to unpleasantly jar the user. A user may be permitted to silence such a heads up pre alert message. At point a full alarm may be sounded which may involve a loud shrill alarm sound. At point a message with an accompanying illumination state may be output indicative of normal conditions resuming. Heads up pre alert states are associated with a yellow illumination state while emergency alert states are associated with red illumination states. If the hazard level in the environment of the hazard detector rises quickly no pre alert state may be entered by the hazard detector. Rather the alarm state may be directly entered from a monitoring state.

It should be noted that the methods systems and devices discussed above are intended merely to be examples. It must be stressed that various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance it should be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the methods may be performed in an order different from that described and that various steps may be added omitted or combined. Also features described with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner. Also it should be emphasized that technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known processes structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments. This description provides example embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the preceding description of the embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure.

Having described several embodiments it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example the above elements may merely be a component of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be undertaken before during or after the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

