---

title: Systems and methods for individualized routing and transportation of parcels
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes determining real-time location information for a transportation item. The method further includes determining real-time route information for a plurality of vehicles, the plurality of vehicles comprising a vehicle-in-transit actively transporting the transportation item. In addition, the method includes analyzing, via the real-time location information and the real-time route information, a route efficiency of the plurality of vehicles relative to an intended destination of the transportation item. Further, the method includes selecting a replacement vehicle from among the plurality of vehicles based, at least in part, on a result of the analyzing. Additionally, the method includes initiating physical transfer of the transportation item from the vehicle-in-transit to the replacement vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619776&OS=09619776&RS=09619776
owner: Dell Software Inc.
number: 09619776
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150206
---
The present disclosure relates generally to transportation and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for individualized routing and transportation of parcels.

Parcels such as packages and other items are typically shipped from one geographic location to another using a dedicated commercial shipping service. In the simplest scenario the method of shipping usually involves the item being loaded into a truck driven to the destination unloaded and then delivered. In more complicated scenarios the parcel might be loaded and unloaded several times from dedicated trucks planes or the like at dedicated transshipment depots or meet up points before ultimately being delivered to its destination. While this arrangement is functional it lacks efficiency.

Moreover as the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

In one embodiment a method is performed by a computer system. The method includes determining real time location information for a transportation item. The method further includes determining real time route information for a plurality of vehicles the plurality of vehicles comprising a vehicle in transit actively transporting the transportation item. In addition the method includes analyzing via the real time location information and the real time route information a route efficiency of the plurality of vehicles relative to an intended destination of the transportation item. Further the method includes selecting a replacement vehicle from among the plurality of vehicles based at least in part on a result of the analyzing. Additionally the method includes initiating physical transfer of the transportation item from the vehicle in transit to the replacement vehicle.

In one embodiment an information handling system includes at least one processor. The at least one processor is operable to implement a method. The method includes determining real time location information for a transportation item. The method further includes determining real time route information for a plurality of vehicles the plurality of vehicles comprising a vehicle in transit actively transporting the transportation item. In addition the method includes analyzing via the real time location information and the real time route information a route efficiency of the plurality of vehicles relative to an intended destination of the transportation item. Further the method includes selecting a replacement vehicle from among the plurality of vehicles based at least in part on a result of the analyzing. Additionally the method includes initiating physical transfer of the transportation item from the vehicle in transit to the replacement vehicle.

In one embodiment a computer program product includes a non transitory computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code is adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes determining real time location information for a transportation item. The method further includes determining real time route information for a plurality of vehicles the plurality of vehicles comprising a vehicle in transit actively transporting the transportation item. In addition the method includes analyzing via the real time location information and the real time route information a route efficiency of the plurality of vehicles relative to an intended destination of the transportation item. Further the method includes selecting a replacement vehicle from among the plurality of vehicles based at least in part on a result of the analyzing. Additionally the method includes initiating physical transfer of the transportation item from the vehicle in transit to the replacement vehicle.

In a modern urban environment such as a city there is often no shortage of vehicles traveling in all directions at all hours of the day. Even between cities in rural areas there is typically a steady flow of traffic in the form of trains trucks buses and passenger cars. The vehicles are usually large and powerful compared to a parcel such as a package or other item and oftentimes could transport a parcel from one location to another with little additional burden or cost. However this transportation capacity is almost never exploited. Instead in current practice most parcels are transported from one location to another in dedicated transportation vehicles that travel side by side on the same roads as the non dedicated transportation vehicles. This duplication is an inefficient use of resources.

At any time on a typical road the dedicated transportation vehicles are vastly outnumbered by the non dedicated vehicles such that the cargo of parcels carried by any particular dedicated transportation vehicle could in theory be redistributed to the non dedicated vehicles that pass it on the road with little impact on the non dedicated vehicles. The dedicated vehicles and most of their supporting infrastructure could be eliminated and the items could still be transported to their destinations making a more efficient use of resources. However there are technical difficulties in designing and implementing such a scheme. Orchestrating a scheme in which items are assigned to a moving collection of vehicles traveling in different directions such that the items reach their destination is technically challenging.

One way to approach this problem would be to attempt a form of manual assignment in which drivers of vehicles drive to a special location disclose their destination and are then given a parcel to carry with them to that destination. Such an approach would move parcels from one location to another but would not be particularly efficient nor would the extra overhead of going to a special assignment station be overly attractive to drivers who simply wish to get to their destination. Although various permutations and incentives could be created to improve the system the manual processing would not easily scale to have the capacity of a dedicated transportation system regardless of how many vehicles were on the road.

The present disclosure describes examples of enabling individualized movement of parcels and items such that they can be attached and detached from non dedicated vehicles under programmatic control. In certain embodiments parcels can be attached to vehicles traveling to or near to their intended destination e.g. an ultimate delivery destination . If the vehicle of attachment does not travel to the exact destination the item could be detached from it and then attached to a different vehicle that would take it closer to that destination. In this manner a particular autonomous parcel might hop from one vehicle to another multiple times as it maneuvers its way to its destination.

For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. personal digital assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

In some embodiments the CPC can serve as an intelligent enclosure e.g. intelligent strongbox for the parcel. In general the parcel can be placed in the CPC in any suitable fashion such as for example in an automated fashion via robots in a warehouse in a manual fashion by humans and or the like. The CPC can engage with or attach to the UMV in any suitable fashion. For example in certain embodiments the UMV can include mechanical and or electromechanical means such as a rack frame bracket electromagnet and or the like that is operable to latch clasp lock attract and or otherwise mate to the UMV . Further examples of the CPC will be described with respect to .

In certain embodiments the UMV can serve as custodian of the CPC for so long as the CPC is en route to the parcel s intended destination. In various embodiments the UMV can be a ground vehicle a surface vehicle e.g. a watercraft an undersea vehicle a spacecraft combinations of same and or the like. For illustrative purposes the UMV is shown in to be an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV . In various cases the UMV can be remotely piloted given autonomous control a combination of same and or the like.

The UMV dock can enable the UMV or any other similarly configured UMV to engage or attach thereto and be transported via the vehicle . In certain embodiments the vehicle can be a car truck bus train and or the like. In various embodiments UMV docks similar to the UMV dock can be disposed on taxi cabs for a given taxi company buses for a given bus service semi trailer trucks for one or more trucking companies personal vehicles with private or non commercial drivers combinations of same and or the like. In many cases some vehicles can have multiple UMV docks disposed on a surface thereof. In these cases in certain embodiments each of the multiple UMV docks can be used independently of the other UMV docks. For example each UMV and corresponding CPC attached to a vehicle at a given time via one of the multiple UMV docks can have different ultimate destinations.

The UMV dock can be or include a rack frame bracket electromagnet and or the like that is operable to latch clasp lock attract or otherwise mate to the UMV . In addition in certain embodiments the UMV dock can be communicably coupled via a wired or wireless connection to an onboard computer system of the vehicle . In these embodiments the UMV dock can provide the UMV and or the CPC with access to one or more services of the vehicle such as wide area network access e.g. Internet access via Wi Fi connection to the onboard computer system of the vehicle global positioning system GPS services e.g. to determine a location and or route of the vehicle etc. In certain embodiments the UMV dock can also charge or fuel the power sources e.g. batteries of the UMV and or the CPC using a power source of the vehicle e.g. a battery .

In certain embodiments the central authority can be a central computer system that orchestrates transportation of a plurality of parcels via management of a plurality of UMVs that include the UMV . In these embodiments the central authority can determine real time location information for each parcel and each UMV. Further the central authority can use the real time location information to ensure route efficiency for each parcel. For example in some embodiments the central authority can orchestrate transportation of millions of parcels by millions of UMVs. Example functionality of the central authority will be described in greater detail with respect to the ensuing FIGURES.

In addition or alternatively any functionality described relative to the central authority can be distributed to one or more of the UMV the CPC and or the UMV dock . For example the UMV can make autonomous decisions regarding an optimal route to the intended destination of the parcel based on the same or similar real time information described above with respect to the central authority .

The components of the information handling system may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation the information handling system may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a wearable or body borne computer a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate the information handling system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. For example in certain embodiments all or part of the central authority can reside in a cloud.

In the depicted embodiment the information handling system includes a processor memory storage interface and bus . Although a particular information handling system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable information handling system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

Processor may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to execute either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory the application . Such functionality may include providing various features discussed herein. In particular embodiments processor may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up the application . As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by the information handling system including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

As an example and not by way of limitation the information handling system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to the information handling system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. In addition in certain embodiments the application is operable to establish or update configurations in a data store on the storage . The data store can be a database flat file and or the like. The configurations can include for example location information scheduling information and or other information related to transporting a parcel to an intended destination.

In particular embodiments interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication among any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

Depending on the embodiment interface may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which information handling system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation information handling system can include or communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example information handling system can include or communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. By way of further example the interface can utilize communication via various other types of wireless communication such as infrared IR communication radio frequency RF communication communication via direct electrical connections etc. In general the information handling system may include any suitable interface for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and the information handling system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interfaces for them. Where appropriate interface may include one or more drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface may include one or more interfaces where appropriate.

Bus may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of the information handling system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Python Java or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

In addition or alternatively the central authority can be a source of information to the UMV . For example the central authority can provide weather information information related to routes or travel schedules of other vehicles equipped with UMV docks etc. In still other embodiments the central authority can be omitted such that all functionality described relative to the central authority can be distributed for example to the UMV . In these embodiments the UMV can autonomously determine based on real time information when to move from the vehicle to another vehicle and or the like. In an example in some embodiments the UMV can communicate with other UMVs and or other UMV docks using any of the communication methods described with respect to . In some of these embodiments each UMV including the UMV can determine routes and locations of UMV docks within communication range thereof. In addition or alternatively in some of these embodiments UMVs can communicate with other UMV docks over a wide area network such as the Internet e.g. using Wi Fi services of vehicles such as the vehicle . UMVs such as the UMV can also share determined location and route information using any of the communication methods described above.

In the illustrated embodiment the UMV the CPC and the UMV dock are shown to intercommunicate via communication links and . The communication links and can be wired or wireless communication links utilizing for example any of the types of communication described above with respect to . In some embodiments some of the communication links and may be omitted. In an example in some embodiments the CPC may not have any direct communication with the UMV dock .

As shown the CPC includes a barcode display and top clasps on an exterior top surface thereof. In addition the CPC includes a front door on which is disposed an authentication panel . The exterior bottom surface of the CPC includes bottom clasps and a barcode display

In certain embodiment the top clasps and the bottom clasps can be used to attach the CPC to a UMV such as the UMV of . In some embodiments the top clasps and or the bottom clasps can be magnetic so as to support for example automatic alignment with a clasp receiving mechanism of a UMV such as the UMV . In addition or alternatively the top clasps and or the bottom clasps can include a gravity assist locking mechanism that allows the clasps to be lowered or dropped into final engagement with a clasp receiving or locking means of the UMV .

Access to an interior of the CPC is possible via the front door . In a typical embodiment the front door only opens after successful authentication via one or more suitable authentication methods including but not limited to biometric scanning single use tokens passwords near field communication with a trusted device combinations of same and or the like. In particular in certain embodiments the authentication panel can include a keypad biometric scanner communications equipment and or the like for purposes of accomplishing the authentication. For example the authentication panel can include an information handling system similar to the information handling system of .

The barcode display and the barcode display can allow a computer system such as the UMV to visually decode a barcode displayed thereon. In an example the displayed barcode can be for example a quick response QR code or another suitable code that identifies the CPC and or one or more parcels to be enclosed in the CPC . In certain embodiments the barcode display and the barcode display can include any means for displaying information including for example an electronic ink display a light emitting diode LED display combinations of same and or the like.

At block the UMV acquires the CPC . The acquisition of the CPC can be initiated in any suitable fashion. For example the UMV can be summoned by a requestor in possession of the CPC directed by the central authority to a location of the CPC potentially in response to a request from a requestor combinations of same and or the like. In some embodiments the UMV can also acquire the CPC in an automated manner. For example the UMV can be deployed in a warehouse responsible for initiating shipment or delivery of parcels to customers. In these embodiments the UMV along with potentially many other UMVs can take custody of CPCs for example in an assembly line fashion. Additionally in some embodiments the CPC can be a component of the UMV . A more detailed example of how the UMV can acquire the CPC will be described in relation to .

At block the UMV docks to the UMV dock of the vehicle . In some embodiments the block can include the central authority in centralized embodiments the UMV in autonomous environments or both comparing candidate vehicles and candidate routes. In these embodiments since UMV docks such as the UMV dock are generally attached to vehicles such as the vehicle the locations and routes of the UMV docks may generally be considered to be the same as the locations and routes of the corresponding vehicles. In certain embodiments the block can include selecting a candidate route and a candidate vehicle e.g. the vehicle based at least in part on one or more efficiency factors such as transit cost transit speed safety record of the vehicle and or a driver or owner thereof reputation of the vehicle and or a driver or owner thereof insurance status of the vehicle and or a driver or owner thereof a history of the vehicle and or a driver or owner thereof a criminal record of a driver or owner of the vehicle records from previous utilization of the vehicle and or a driver or owner thereof directness of route relative to the intended destination and projected time of arrival at the intended destination. Further examples of functionality that can be performed at the block will be described in greater detail with respect to .

At block the CPC and enclosed parcel are transported with route efficiency being evaluated periodically on demand or in some cases continuously. Transporting the CPC can include the UMV undocking from the vehicle and docking to replacement vehicles at designated junctures e.g. a particular time particular location combinations of same and or the like . The designated junctures can be determined for example as part of the candidate route that is selected at the block . Further examples of functionality that can be performed at the block will be described with respect to .

At decision block it is determined whether the parcel has been delivered to its intended destination. In certain embodiments the CPC may be considered to be delivered when the CPC arrives at the intended destination. In other embodiments additional requirements can be imposed such as for example a requirement for successful authentication on the CPC . In some cases the UMV may deposit the CPC at the intended destination. If it is determined at the decision block that the parcel has not yet been delivered to its intended destination the process returns to block and proceeds as described above. Otherwise if it is determined at the decision block that the parcel has been transported to the intended destination the process ends. In various embodiments the UMV dock can accept payments from the UMV for example at a time of docking a time of undocking and or the like. In certain embodiments the payments can be made via a cryptocurrency.

In some embodiments a process similar to the process can be executed without a CPC such as the CPC . For example after the UMV delivers the CPC the UMV may need to return home to a base or headquarters travel to a pick up location of a parcel etc. In these embodiments the UMV may travel in a similar fashion to that which is described above without a CPC in order to reach a next destination. In these embodiments the process can be modified such that the block is omitted and such that the UMV travels to its next destination instead of to an intended destination of a parcel or CPC.

At block authentication information is generated for a CPC and a UMV that have been selected to transport a parcel i.e. a CPC UMV pairing . For purposes of the example of the selected CPC and the selected UMV are the CPC and the UMV respectively of . It should be appreciated that the authentication information can take numerous forms in accordance with particular authentication methods that may be desirable for particular implementations.

By way of example in some implementations the authentication information can include asymmetric key pairs. In these implementations the central authority or another component can generate two asymmetric key pairs a CPC specific key pair for the CPC and a UMV specific key pair for the UMV . The asymmetric key pairs can be generated using an encryption algorithm such as RSA DSA ECDSA variants thereof and or the like. Each asymmetric key pair generally includes a public key and a private key.

In some embodiments the CPC specific key pair and the UMV specific key pair are specific to the CPC UMV pairing i.e. single use . In still other embodiments a single reusable asymmetric key pair may be generated for each of the CPC and the UMV . In these embodiments if the single asymmetric key pairs or other suitable authentication information has already been generated the block can be omitted. In some of these embodiments the CPC specific key pair and the UMV specific key pair are each parcel specific such that new asymmetric key pairs are generated for each parcel to be transported. Such parcel specific key pairs may be reused for other authentication processes during transportation of the associated parcel. In others of these embodiments the CPC specific key pair and the UMV specific key pair are reusable for multiple parcels and for multiple authentication processes involving the CPC and or the UMV . In various cases if the asymmetric key pairs or other suitable authentication information has already been generated and one or both are reusable the block can be at least partially omitted.

At block the CPC is prepared for the CPC UMV pairing. The preparation of the CPC can include providing the CPC with certain CPC initialization information such as for example information related to a parcel that is to be enclosed therein e.g. a unique ID of the parcel information related to an intended destination of the parcel e.g. an address geographic coordinates etc. information related to a UMV that will be escorting the CPC to the intended destination e.g. a unique ID of the UMV and CPC relevant authentication information. In an example the CPC relevant authentication information can include a private key of the CPC specific key pair or potentially an entirety of the CPC specific key pair and a public key of the UMV specific key pair. In embodiments in which the CPC specific key pair is reusable in the fashion described above and has already been provided to the CPC information relating thereto may be omitted from the CPC relevant authentication information. In various embodiments the CPC initialization information can be provided by the central authority a trusted computing device or system a human interacting therewith combinations of same and or the like.

At block the UMV is prepared for the CPC UMV pairing. The preparation of the UMV can include providing the UMV with certain UMV initialization information such as for example information related to a parcel that is to be carried thereby e.g. a unique ID of the parcel information related to an intended destination of the parcel e.g. an address geographic coordinates etc. information related to a CPC that will be enclosing the parcel e.g. a unique ID of the CPC and UMV relevant authentication information. In an example the UMV relevant authentication information can include a private key of the UMV specific key pair or potentially an entirety of the UMV specific key pair and a public key of the CPC specific key pair. In embodiments in which the UMV specific key pair is reusable in the fashion described above and has already been provided to the UMV information relating thereto may be omitted from the UMV relevant authentication information. In various embodiments the UMV initialization information can be provided by the central authority a trusted computing device or system a human interacting therewith combinations of same and or the like. In some embodiments at least a portion of the UMV initialization information can be attained by reading a barcode display such as the barcode display or the barcode display

At block the UMV assumes a pick up position relative to the CPC for example by moving within close range of the CPC . In some embodiments human or machine interaction can cause or facilitate the assumption of the pick up position.

At block the CPC and the UMV mutually authenticate. In particular the CPC can authenticate the UMV and the UMV can authenticate the CPC . In general the mutual authentication can be accomplished in any suitable fashion. In an example the UMV can send an authentication request to the CPC that is digitally signed using a private key of the UMV specific key pair described above. Thereafter the CPC can validate the digital signature of the UMV using the public key of the UMV specific key pair. In similar fashion the CPC can send an authentication request to the UMV such that the authentication request is digitally signed using the private key of the CPC specific key pair. Thereafter the UMV can validate the digital signature of the CPC using the public key of the CPC specific key pair. According to this example successful validation of both the digital signature of the CPC and of the digital signature of the UMV results in successful mutual authentication. It should be appreciated that mutual authentication can also be accomplished in many other suitable ways that include for example third party authentication services.

At decision block it is determined whether the mutual authentication at block was successful. If not at block one or more declination actions may be performed. For example if the UMV is unable to successfully authenticate the CPC the UMV may physically decline the CPC by failing to grasp clasp or enclose the CPC . Further the UMV can decline to transport the CPC notify the central authority if one is included in a particular implementation and or notify a user associated with the parcel. In another example if the CPC is unable to successfully authenticate the UMV the CPC can sound an audible alarm if equipped notify the central authority if one is included in a particular implementation notify a user associated with the parcel combinations of same and or the like. After block the process ends.

If it is determined at the decision block that the mutual authentication was successful at block the UMV and the CPC mutually accept each other. For example the UMV can begin transporting the CPC and the CPC can allow itself to be transported. After block the process ends.

At block authentication information is generated for a UMV and a UMV dock that have been selected to transport a parcel i.e. a UMV to dock pairing . For purposes of the example of the selected UMV and the selected UMV dock are the UMV and the UMV dock respectively of . It should be appreciated that the authentication information can take numerous forms in accordance with particular authentication methods that may be desirable for particular implementations.

By way of example in some implementations the authentication information can include asymmetric key pairs of the type described above. In these implementations the central authority or another component can generate two asymmetric key pairs a UMV specific key pair for the UMV and a dock specific key pair for the UMV dock . The asymmetric key pairs can be generated using an encryption algorithm such as RSA DSA ECDSA variants thereof and or the like. Each asymmetric key pair generally includes a public key and a private key.

In some embodiments the UMV specific key pair and the dock specific key pair are particular to the UMV to dock pairing i.e. single use . In still other embodiments a single reusable asymmetric key pair may be generated for each of the UMV and the UMV dock . In these embodiments if the single asymmetric key pairs or other suitable authentication information has already been generated the block can be omitted. In some of these embodiments the UMV specific key pair and the dock specific key pair are each parcel specific such that new asymmetric key pairs are generated for each parcel to be transported. Such parcel specific key pairs may be re used for other authentication processes during transportation of the associated parcel. In others of these embodiments the UMV specific key pair and the dock specific key pair are reusable for multiple parcels and for multiple authentication processes involving the UMV and or the UMV dock . In various cases if the asymmetric key pairs or other suitable authentication information has already been generated and one or both are reusable the block can be at least partially omitted.

At block the UMV is prepared for the UMV to dock pairing. The preparation of the UMV can include providing the UMV with certain UMV initialization information such as for example information related to the UMV dock e.g. an ID of the UMV dock and UMV relevant authentication information. In an example the UMV relevant authentication information can include a private key of the UMV specific key pair or potentially an entirety of the UMV specific key pair and a public key of the dock specific key pair. In embodiments in which the UMV specific key pair is reusable in the fashion described above and has already been provided at least in part to the CPC information relating thereto may be omitted from the UMV relevant authentication information. In various embodiments the UMV initialization information can be provided by the central authority a trusted computing device or system a human interacting therewith combinations of same and or the like.

At block the UMV dock is prepared for the UMV to dock pairing. The preparation of the UMV dock can include providing the UMV dock with certain dock initialization information such as for example information related to a UMV that will be docking thereto e.g. an ID of the UMV and dock relevant authentication information. In an example the dock relevant authentication information can include a private key of the dock specific key pair or potentially an entirety of the dock specific key pair and a public key of the UMV specific key pair. In embodiments in which the dock specific key pair is reusable in the fashion described above and has already been provided to the UMV dock information relating thereto may be omitted from the UMV relevant authentication information. In various embodiments the dock initialization information can be provided by the central authority a trusted computing device or system a human interacting therewith combinations of same and or the like.

At block the UMV achieves a docking position relative to the UMV dock for example by moving within close range of the UMV dock . In some embodiments human or machine interaction can cause or facilitate achievement of the docking position.

At block the UMV and the UMV dock mutually authenticate. In particular the UMV can authenticate the UMV dock and the UMV dock can authenticate the UMV . In general the mutual authentication can be accomplished in any suitable fashion. In an example the UMV dock can send an authentication request to the UMV that is digitally signed using a private key of the dock specific key pair described above. Thereafter the UMV can validate the digital signature of the UMV dock using the public key of the dock specific key pair. In similar fashion the UMV can send an authentication request to the UMV dock such that the authentication request is digitally signed using the private key of the UMV specific key pair. Thereafter the UMV dock can validate the digital signature of the UMV using the public key of the UMV specific key pair. According to this example successful validation of both the digital signature of the UMV and of the digital signature of the UMV dock results in successful mutual authentication. It should be appreciated that mutual authentication can also be accomplished in many other suitable ways that include for example third party authentication services.

At decision block it is determined whether the mutual authentication at block was successful. If not at block one or more declination actions may be performed. For example if the UMV dock is unable to successfully authenticate the UMV the UMV dock may physically decline the UMV by refusing to grasp clasp or otherwise engage with the UMV as applicable.

In another example in certain embodiments the UMV and the UMV dock can each include a set of one or more electromagnets e.g. electro permanent magnets that facilitate attachment of the UMV to the UMV dock . In these embodiments the UMV dock can physically decline the UMV by reversing the polarity of its set of electromagnets e.g. by reversing the flow of electricity . In addition or alternatively the UMV dock can notify the central authority if one is included in a particular implementation and or notify a user associated with the parcel.

In another example if the UMV is unable to successfully authenticate the UMV dock the UMV can physically decline engagement by not docking with the UMV dock. Further according to this example the UMV can notify the central authority for purposes of triggering selection of another UMV dock. After block the process ends.

If it is determined at the decision block that the mutual authentication was successful at block the UMV dock and the UMV mutually accept each other. For example the UMV can engage with the UMV dock to achieve a locked position. After block the process ends.

In certain embodiments all or part of the process can be performed during the block of . The process can be implemented by any system that can receive and transmit data. For example the process in whole or in part can be implemented by one or more of the UMV the CPC the UMV dock and or the central authority . The process can also be implemented by the transportation scheme generally. Although any number of systems in whole or in part can implement the process to simplify discussion the process will be described in relation to specific systems or subsystems of the transportation scheme .

At block real time location information is determined for the CPC . In certain embodiments a real time location of the CPC can be known by the CPC the UMV that is carrying the CPC the UMV dock currently being used to transport the UMV and or the like. In an example in embodiments in which the central authority performs the block the real time location information can be determined via communication with the UMV the CPC and or the UMV dock . In another example in embodiments in which the UMV performs the block the real time location can be from internal GPS functionality or storage via communication with the CPC or the UMV dock combinations of same and or the like.

At block real time route information is determined for a plurality of vehicles that are equipped with appropriately configured UMV docks. In general the real time route information for a given vehicle is indicative of where the vehicle currently is or will be traveling. The real time route information can also include other information such as for example a current speed of travel scheduling information e.g. scheduled time of departure periods of travel etc. traffic along the route cost of the route e.g. amount that would be paid to a person or entity associated with a given UMV dock weather along the route combinations of same and or the like.

In certain embodiments the real time route information can be determined from various sources. In an example a driver person or other entity associated with each such vehicle can register routes and corresponding information with the central authority . In another example at least a portion of the real time route information can be determined via communication with the UMV docks of the vehicles. In yet another example at least a portion of the real time route information can be derived from information obtained from the foregoing example sources. For instance in various cases a speed of travel can be determined from tracked locations over a short period of time weather and traffic information can be accessed for a determined route future traffic and speed of travel can be projected based on historical traffic patterns for the route combinations of same and or the like. The real time route information can also be determined via a combination of the foregoing ways and or in other suitable ways.

At block a route efficiency of the plurality of vehicles is analyzed relative to the intended destination of the CPC . In general the block can involve comparing candidate routes for transporting the CPC to the intended destination. In many cases some of the candidate routes can include planned vehicle changes at certain junctures e.g. certain place certain time etc. . Route efficiency can be measured in various ways including but not limited to transit cost transit speed directness of route relative to the intended destination projected time of arrival combinations of same and or the like.

At decision block it is determined whether there is a better route than an existing route as measured for example by route efficiency. If not the process ends. Otherwise if it is determined at decision block that there is a better route than the existing route a replacement vehicle is selected at block . In certain embodiments the replacement vehicle may correspond to at least a first leg of a route deemed most efficient.

At block physical transfer of the CPC is initiated. In general the block can include communicating with a UMV dock of the replacement vehicle to reserve that UMV dock for the UMV . In embodiments in which the central authority performs the block the initiation can further include transmitting an instruction to the UMV to undock from the at least one vehicle in transit and dock to the replacement vehicle. At block physical transfer is implemented. In general the block can involve performing a process similar to the process of . After block the process ends.

It should be appreciated that numerous variations of the foregoing are contemplated. For example in some implementations the transportation scheme of can be modified so as to exclude the UMV . In these implementations the UMV dock can in effect be a CPC dock that receives and carries CPCs. In these embodiments all functionality described herein relative to UMVs such as the UMV can be conflated into the CPC with the exception that the CPC would not typically have independent or autonomous mobility. For example with regard to the process of block can be omitted. In addition with regard to block of and more specifically the process of decisions to physically transfer the CPC can be presented as recommendations to users and or drivers e.g. instructions transmitted by email text message etc. . Human and or machine interaction can facilitate implementation of physical transfers mutual authentication etc. Other variations of the foregoing will be apparent to one skilled in the art after reviewing the present disclosure.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially. Although certain computer implemented tasks are described as being performed by a particular entity other embodiments are possible in which these tasks are performed by a different entity.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

