---

title: Non-pyrotechnic, non-lethal compressed gas disseminator
abstract: A non-pyrotechnic disseminator includes a body portion with a cover; a first compartment adjacent to the cover that is configured to hold disseminating materials; a chamber adjacent to the first compartment; a disk within the chamber and adjacent to the first compartment; a flow control device adjacent to the chamber opposite the disk; a second compartment adjacent to the flow control device and including a pin; an actuating mechanism connected to the pin; a third compartment adjacent to the second compartment opposite the flow control device that is configured to hold compressed gas; and a seal separating the second compartment from the third compartment. Actuation of the actuating mechanism causes the pin to break the seal causing release of the compressed gas into the second compartment and through the flow control device in a predetermined delayed timing, and then causing the compressed gas to burst the disk thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion by rupturing the cover.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09423225&OS=09423225&RS=09423225
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09423225
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150910
---
The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments herein generally relate to compressed gas dissemination devices and more particularly to non pyrotechnic compressed gas disseminators.

The conventional CS teargas grenade M7A3 shown in relies on a burning pyrotechnic to disseminate 128 g of pelletized CS which results in approximately 45 50 grams of CS dispersed as an aerosol. Pyrotechnic disseminators can burn some of the CS destroying its active properties as well as posing a high risk of starting fires. The threat of fire limits the grenade s operational uses to outdoors scenarios under controlled conditions that reduce the risk of fires. Pyrotechnic devices operate over an extended period of time with total functioning times typically measuring in tens of seconds to minutes.

Bursting type grenades can provide a near instantaneous disseminated cloud. The obsolete ABC M25A2 shown in is an example of this type of grenade that uses an explosive detonator to expel the CSI fill 57 g . A bursting grenade has a reduced risk of fire hazard but due to its method of operation can cause injury to personnel from flying grenade body shrapnel.

A number of commercial riot control disseminators are available. These devices typically rely on pyrotechnics explosives or propellants gas to disseminate the riot control agent and most use pyrotechnic fuze delay systems. The pyrotechnic devices generally employ double and triple walled configurations to contain the pyrotechnic flame internally and reduce the risk of starting fires.

Furthermore there are a number of devices that use compressed gas to propel a projectile although many of these devices are focused on the paintball industry. Some examples of conventional grenade type devices that use compressed gases in their operations are provided below the complete disclosures of which in their entireties are herein incorporated by reference.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 349 650 issued to Brunn et al. for a Launchable Flameless Expulsion Grenade uses COto entrain powders in the gas flow though this device uses pyrotechnics in its fuzing. U.S. Pat. No. 5 996 503 issued to Woodall et al. for a Reusable Gas Powered Hand Grenade is non pyrotechnic grenade and uses compressed gas to launch small projectiles. U.S. Pat. No. 5 069 134 issued to Pinkney for a Flameless Expulsion Grenade uses compressed gas to entrain powder for dissemination but uses a pyrotechnic fuze. U.S. Pat. No. 3 188 954 issued to Roach et al. for a Gas Ejection Bomb for Dispersing Solid Particulates provides an air delivered fin stabilized bomb that uses compressed gas to entrain powder for dissemination. U.S. Pat. No. 3 402 665 issued to Tarpley Jr. et al. for a Non Pyrotechnic Disseminator relies on a pyrotechnic fuze. U.S. Pat. No. 4 690 061 issued to Armer Jr. et al. for a Landmine for Use in Simulated War Games employs compressed gas to spray a liquid slurry marking material. Paintball Grenade U.S. Pat. No. 4 944 521 issued to Greeno for a War Game Marking Grenade launches a plurality of paintballs propelled by compressed gas. U.S. Pat. No. 5 365 913 issued to Walton for a Rupture Disk Gas Launcher is for a compressed gas gun type device for launching larger projectiles.

While the conventional solutions were suitable for the purposes for which they were designed they generally do not provide a suitable solution for non pyrotechnic and non lethal uses and accordingly there remains a need for a new non pyrotechnic non lethal compressed gas disseminator.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a non pyrotechnic disseminator comprising a body portion a cover on the body portion a first compartment adjacent to the cover wherein the first compartment is configured to hold disseminating materials a chamber adjacent to the first compartment a disk within the chamber and adjacent to the first compartment a flow control device adjacent to the chamber a second compartment adjacent to the flow control device wherein the second compartment comprises a pin an actuating mechanism operatively connected to the pin a third compartment adjacent to the second compartment wherein the third compartment is configured to hold compressed gas and a seal separating the chamber from the third compartment. Actuation of the actuating mechanism causes the pin to break the seal causing release of the compressed gas into the second compartment and through the flow control device in a predetermined delayed timing and causing the compressed gas to burst the disk thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion by rupturing the cover. The non pyrotechnic disseminator may further comprise a piston in the first compartment. The piston may comprise holes. The first compartment may further comprise at least one stop configured to retain the piston within the first compartment. The disseminating materials may exit the body portion as an aerosol. The disseminating materials may comprise any of a powder slurry and liquid. The non pyrotechnic disseminator may further comprise a self righting mechanism operatively connected to the body portion. The compressed gas may comprise carbon dioxide.

Another embodiment provides a grenade comprising a body portion a plurality of compartments configured in the body portion wherein the plurality of compartments are positioned to separately hold disseminating materials and compressed gas a plurality of components in the body portion and an actuating mechanism operatively connected to one of the plurality of components wherein actuation of the actuating mechanism causes the plurality of components to controllably release the compressed gas through the body portion thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion. The grenade may further comprise a cover on the body portion wherein the plurality of compartments comprises a first compartment adjacent to the cover wherein the first compartment is configured to hold the disseminating materials a chamber adjacent to the first compartment a second compartment comprising a pin and a third compartment adjacent to the second compartment wherein the third compartment is configured to hold the compressed gas. The plurality of components includes a disk within the chamber and adjacent to the first compartment a flow control device adjacent to the chamber and the second compartment and a seal separating the second and third compartments. Actuation of the actuating mechanism causes the pin to break the seal causing release of the compressed gas into the second compartment and through the flow control device in a predetermined delayed timing and causing the compressed gas to burst the disk thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion by rupturing the cover. The grenade may further comprise a piston in the first compartment. The piston may comprise holes. The first compartment may further comprise at least one stop configured to retain the piston within the first compartment. The disseminating materials may exit the body portion as an aerosol and the disseminating materials may comprise any of a powder slurry and liquid. The grenade may further comprise a self righting mechanism operatively connected to the body portion. The compressed gas may comprise carbon dioxide.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a non pyrotechnic hand grenade size device for the dissemination of powders or other disseminating materials such as non lethal riot control agents. The device is applicable to many riot control situations and is particularly advantageous for use within confined spaces such as buildings where the risk of starting a fire is greatest. Being completely non pyrotechnic allows the device to be classified as non munitions which significantly reduces handling and storage requirements. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

A non pyrotechnic powder disseminator for dispersing non lethal riot control material rapidly is desirable both from a military and law enforcement perspective. As provided in the embodiments herein achieve this by providing a non pyrotechnic disseminator comprising a body portion a cover on the body portion a first compartment adjacent to the cover wherein the first compartment is configured to hold disseminating materials a chamber adjacent to the first compartment a disk within the chamber and adjacent to the first compartment a flow control device adjacent to the chamber a second compartment adjacent to the flow control device wherein the second compartment comprises a pin an actuating mechanism operatively connected to the pin a third compartment adjacent to the second compartment wherein the third compartment is configured to hold compressed gas and a seal separating the chamber from the third compartment . Actuation of the actuating mechanism causes the pin to break the seal causing release of the compressed gas into the second compartment and through the flow control device in a predetermined delayed timing and causing the compressed gas to burst the disk thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion by rupturing the cover .

The embodiments herein utilize a high pressure compressed gas such as 12 g of carbon dioxide CO to push non lethal fluidized CS powder out of one end of a cylindrical shaped grenade body . The compressed gas is initially contained within the third compartment e.g. compressed gas compartment located at the bottom of the grenade body . The actuating mechanism comprises a pull ring connected to a safety pin which retains a spring actuated to a stab pin . When an operator not shown pulls the ring to remove the safety pin the stab pin is released and punctures the seal on the third compartment . Then the high pressure gas pushes back the stab pin and escapes into the second compartment e.g. delay compartment . The flow control device which may include a properly configured orifice meters the compressed gas flow into the burst disk chamber providing a three to five second time delay. The pressure in the burst disk chamber increases during the delay time until the burst pressure is reached and the disk ruptures. The piston helps expel all of the powder if the burst disk is considerably smaller in diameter than the grenade body . However if a larger diameter burst disk is used it may be possible to omit the piston altogether as described below. In one example embodiment the disk is 0.75 inches in diameter although other configurations are possible in accordance with the embodiments herein. A larger diameter burst disk for example having the same inner diameter as the body may improve dissemination though a small diameter burst disk may provide better burst control. The size of the burst disk may also depend on whether a piston is used or not. If a piston is used a smaller diameter burst disk could be used but if a piston is not used then a larger burst disk may be required for efficient dissemination of the powder . The burst disk also serves as a seal to keep the powder above the burst chamber . The high pressure gas then pushes against a piston that separates the first compartment e.g. payload compartment and the burst disk chamber . The piston is within the first compartment .

In one example embodiment the piston is configured to be two inches in diameter although other configurations are possible in accordance with the embodiments herein. If a piston is used the diameter of the piston is preferably substantially equal to the inner diameter of the grenade body for proper dissemination of the powder . The piston forces the powder payload against the cover across the top of the grenade body rupturing the cover for an almost instantaneous release of the powder . Holes in the piston allow the compressed gas to escape assisting with dissemination by deagglomerating and breaking up the powder . The first compartment may include at least one stop at the top of the grenade body to capture and retain the piston within the first compartment and restrain the piston from becoming a projectile and possibly injuring innocent bystanders and non combatants. Alternatively the piston can be constructed of a low density material such as foam and the stops would not be required.

The non pyrotechnic powder disseminator eliminates the risk of fire as well as the risk of personnel being burned by a hot grenade body. The disseminator could safely be used in confined spaces and within combustible environments. Furthermore the disseminator produces an almost instantaneous aerosol cloud similar to that produced by a pyrotechnic explosive device without the associated injury from shrapnel and ejected parts. Full pyrotechnic devices or devices with small amounts of pyrotechnics in the fuze and delay assemblies require special care for handling and storage. However a completely non pyrotechnic disseminator as provided by the embodiments herein eliminates many of the hazards associated with current inventoried and commercial pyrotechnic and explosive riot control grenades and has fewer restrictions on storage and handling.

In addition alternative embodiments may also include any material that is suitable for use in the construction of the non pyrotechnic disseminator and the type of disseminating materials being disseminated could include slurries and liquids in addition to or alternative to the powder described above. Further embodiments as shown in can include using a self righting mechanism operatively connected to the grenade body portion such as spring actuated legs or a roly poly apparatus to increase the dissemination efficiency of the embodiments herein by orienting the disseminator so that the powder or slurry or liquid will be disseminated into the air as opposed to parallel to the ground.

The disseminator provided by the embodiments herein uses high pressure compressed gas to rupture a disk to instantaneously disseminate bulk powder from the disseminator with the turbulent flow of escaping high pressure gas assisting with deagglomeration and particle breakup. The non pyrotechnic powder disseminator increases safety by eliminating fire and shrapnel hazards and reducing handling and storage restrictions.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

