---

title: Systems, applications, and methods for exercise workout generation
abstract: In some embodiments, an automated system comprises one or more biometric sensors, an interactive screen, and an exercise routine generation application communicable with a mobile application. In some embodiments, the mobile application receives data from an automated station and displays exercise routines, other exercise information, or both. In some embodiments, the mobile application includes a scanner to scan labels, other indicia, or physical or other features of an exercise machine or other exercise apparatus to identify the machine or apparatus. In some embodiments, the mobile application communicates with one or more local or remote databases identifying differing exercise facility locations within a geographic area and identifying exercise apparatus available in each of the differing facilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09468807&OS=09468807&RS=09468807
owner: Fit Intuition, LLC
number: 09468807
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150307
---
This application is a Continuation of pending U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 512 928 entitled Biosensing Systems Applications and Methods filed on Oct. 13 2014 which application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 890 035 also entitled Biosensing Systems Applications and Methods and filed on Oct. 11 2013. The instant application claims benefit of and incorporates herein by reference in their entireties for all useful purposes both of the applications above Ser. Nos. 14 512 928 and 61 890 035 . In the event of any inconsistency between the prior patent applications and the instant application including without limitation any limiting aspects the instant application shall prevail.

This patent document contains material subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the photocopy reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure in exactly the form it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights.

The present disclosure relates to an automated system that utilizes information from and about users to generate personalized exercise workout information.

Biometric sensor systems are old in the art. A prior Internet publication regarding a Tanita MC 980 Multi Frequency Segmental Body Composition Meter the Tanita reference describes a biosensor information collection system having a automated stand station with a scale at the base of the stand and a digital display at the top of the stand. The publication further explains that a height measurement accessory is optional.

The system disclosed in the Tanita reference is not an exercise development system. For example the system as disclosed in the Tanita reference does not provide any exercise recommendations much less do so by identifying specific exercises to be performed on identified exercise equipment. The system of the Tanita reference also does not connect with a mobile application that may be utilized to collect data about specific exercise apparatus or specific exercise facilities. There are many other aspects of the present disclosure not disclosed in the Tanita reference.

Mobile exercise development applications have also been disclosed in the prior art. One such reference U.S. Published Patent Application No. 20130196821 the 821 reference discloses a mobile exercise development application that collects biometric information about a user collects data about available exercise machines such as with a scanner on the mobile device and with both of these types of information generates customized exercise routines for the user.

The 821 reference does not disclose an automated biometric information collection station much less use of such a stand to provide the biometric data to a mobile exercise development application. The 821 reference also does not disclose use of information generated by the application such as exercise apparatus identification data for apparatus in particular locations to provide a database of exercise apparatus at differing such locations.

Further to applicants knowledge the prior art does not include any such database compilation of exercise facilities by location much less one accessible by a mobile application. Although Google maps and other mobile applications have long tracked and reported a mobile device user s location and directions to differing identified locations to applicants knowledge such prior art applications have not provided an identification of differing exercise facility locations along with identification of exercise resources such as particular machines available at the locations respectively. Similarly they have not provided automatic identification of the subset of locations available locally to a mobile application device user. And mapping features have not been provided with any such features to applicants knowledge.

The applicants believe they have discovered problems and deficiencies in the prior art such as those set forth above and others solved by one or more embodiments disclosed in this specification.

In one aspect the present specification is directed to an automated system having one or more biometric sensors an interactive screen and an exercise routine generation application. In some embodiments the automated system further comprises and is communicable with a mobile application that can receive data from the automated system and display exercise routines or other exercise information to a user. In some embodiments the mobile application can include a scanner to scan labels other indicia or physical or other features of an exercise machine or other exercise apparatus to identify the machine or apparatus. In some systems the automated system comprises an automated station including a support arm extending from a weighing scale to the interactive screen supported by the support arm.

In another aspect this specification discloses a mobile application that communicates with local or remote one or more databases to identify differing exercise facility locations within a geographic area and identify exercise apparatus available in each of the differing facilities. In some systems the mobile application device can include a scanner such as identified above to identify exercise resources available a given facility and place that information into the one or more databases.

In certain embodiments users can access exercise facility information through their mobile devices. For example a mobile application can procure the user s location through GPS monitoring and procure and display local exercise facilities and their respective exercise resources.

In certain embodiments the automated system or an automated station is communicable with the mobile application that reports differing exercise facilities and exercise apparatus available in the differing facilities. The mobile application device can include a scanning feature such as set forth above. In some embodiments the mobile application or web or other portal can provide the user with locations of exercise facilities that have equipment such as the automated station compatible with the user s mobile application or that the user can use to otherwise access the user s information provided earlier such as for example for storage in one or more databases. Some systems can include all the features identified above. Additional features of the automated system automated station or mobile application include instructions for how to perform an exercise and or graphic or video demonstrations of exercises with identified apparatus.

In some embodiments the automated station can act as a personal trainer that generates workout recommendations video tutorials and specific body group exercises. For example the automated station can provide the ability to help patrons of small un managed gymnasiums by providing a step by step guide for fitness instruction.

In some embodiments the automated station can report damaged equipment to managers etc. The automated station also can communicate with an optional mobile phone application that offers a handheld guide to user. The station can further provide a complete resource for small to large gymnasium complex utilization.

In some embodiments the automated station and mobile application such as an iPhone iPad iPod or smartphone mobile application may each include at least one of any of a login to keep track of body stat information weight fat percentage muscle mass physique etc a nutrition guide a customized periodic workout regimen for a user with adaptation when needed for a user using differing types of equipment either in the same facility or in varying types of exercise facilities user workout tracking data collection and reporting video or graphical tutorials on equipment use and GPS capabilities to locate an apartment or other exercise facility in a particular geographic local in some embodiments with a map layout of the facility and identification of exercise resources in the gym.

With an integrated system including the automated station and the mobile application device having user location tracking mapping and exercise resource identification features a user can travel and yet easily locate and follow mapping instructions to find a suitable exercise facility if available in the user s geographic locale.

In some embodiments the mobile application device may also include at least one of any of a QR code scanner function for scanning and identifying exercise or other resources in the exercise facility safety information means to submit damage reports to complex manager means to communicate with or find partners in the same facility means to chat in linked forums about workouts and health matters and means contact a facility manager about concerns.

Systems disclosed herein can provide novel methods of using the systems including novel business methods. For example one novel business method can involve utilizing a mobile application to generate database s identifying the types of exercise apparatus available in each of differing exercise facilities. Remuneration can then be charged for access to this data or for providing the data to users of mobile devices. Advertising in conjunction with these services can also provide a source of remuneration.

It can thus be seen that the present systems can provide one or more of the problem solutions and advantages noted above. Further the automated station and mobile application provide increased effectiveness safety function and use of the exercise facilities in differing apartment complexes hotels exercise clubs or gymnasiums. With such systems users need not wander around exercise facilities with no understanding of how to use equipment or how to develop an effective workout plan.

The following description provides examples and is not limiting of the scope of this application. Changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements discussed without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Various embodiments may omit substitute add and mix and match various procedures or components as appropriate or desired. For instance the methods disclosed may be performed in an order different from that described and various steps may be added omitted or combined. Also features disclosed with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in or with other embodiments as well as features of other embodiments.

Certain embodiments of the automated systems and methods are described with reference to methods apparatus systems and computer program products that can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions can be provided to a processor of a one or more computing devices such as a general purpose computer special purpose computer mobile computing device or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computing device implement the acts specified herein to transform data from a first state to a second state transmit data from one computing device to another computing device and generate physical state transitions at one or more geographic locations.

These computer program instructions can be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computing device or other programmable data processing apparatus to operate in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions for implementing the acts specified herein. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computing device or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computing device or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the acts specified herein.

The programming of the programmable apparatus creates a new machine creating a special purpose computer once it is programmed that performs particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. The automated systems can be described in terms of a dedicated circuit or a process that emulates that circuit. The software processes of the extended package collaboration system are at least in part interchangeable with a hardware circuit. This new machine can thus be implemented as a complex array of hardware circuits programming that facilitates the unique functions of the extended package collaboration system or both.

Various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application and function but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a specific purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices such as for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The blocks of the methods and algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of computer readable storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a computer terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a computer terminal.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the methods described herein can be performed in a different sequence or can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the method . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently such as for example through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores rather than sequentially. Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed on alternate tiers or on alternate components within the architecture.

In some embodiments the system includes several components such as for example a web application including a presentation layer in communication with a server side logic layer and a cloud based database environment employing structured data such as for example SQL defined data structures. In some implementations one or more components are deployed on a Microsoft Linux or UNIX operating system such as for example Windows Ubuntu Linux or Mac OS X . One or more languages can be use to implement the various components across the various architecture layers. Languages and frameworks can include but are not limited to PHP HTML CSS JavaScript Ruby on Rails Grails and SQL.

Communication within systems may include standard web protocols such as for example HTTP HTTPS via standard network protocols such as TCP IP. Alternative web protocols for intra system and Internetwork communication currently under development including HTTP version 2.0 HTTPS version 2.0 and SPDY are contemplated and within the scope of this disclosure. Successors to these protocols are also envisioned and are supported within the scope of this disclosure.

Referring now to in some embodiments a computer network or similar digital processing environment supports implementation of the of the automated systems disclosed. Portions of the present systems and methods can also run on different architectures that include a LAN WAN stand alone PC stand alone mobile device one or more stand alone clustered or networked mini or mainframe computers etc. The automated systems can be distributed on multiple computers and devices .

In some instances an automated station is implemented in part as a combination of proprietary and off the shelf hardware and software. The hardware can include for example a standard Wi Fi enabled Android tablet that is Android USB Accessory mode compatible. Custom hardware can include sensors configured to obtain various biological statistics such as for example heart rate body fat percentage weight and the like. In some implementations the custom hardware also acts as the USB host in accordance with Android s Open Accessory Protocol. Software can include Android OS version 4.0.3 a custom Java based Android application maintaining a SocketIO socket to the site specific slave server using an IP address and Port Number read from a config file stored on the Tablet s internal SD card and a GUI using UnityPlayer.SendMessage method and a Unity based graphical user interface application. In some instances the user directly interacts with on screen elements through the Unity layer. This layer will receive messages from the Android application and then display the contents of the messages. When the user wants to perform an action that would result in data being updated deleted or created the Unity layer collects the information for the change and sends it to the Android application which then relays it to the site specific slave server . In certain instances the system can be integrated with off the shelf hardware and software services such as obtaining for example weight and body fat percentages detected by a Fitbit Aria scale via a web services API accessing hosted Fitbit content.

A load balancing router such as for example a Peplink Multi Wan Router can distribute traffic inside a firewall to and from distributed web servers . In some deployments these webservers are distributed instances of one or more application servers with distributions of Apache a JavaScript runtime environment Node.JS running SailsJS along with supporting libraries such as those configured for communicating with persistent data stores such as through a REST API. The distributed web servers are communicatively coupled to computers hosting one or more persistent data stores file stores or both. The data store can be distributed relational databases such as for example MySQL 5.1.70 SQL Server or Oracle storing primary and derivative data or alternatively can be relational databases in combinations with file stores that use native file systems. In an example a distributed web server may communicate with a distributed database server via Java Database Connectivity JDBC Open Database Connectivity ODBC or other database communication protocol supported by the data store. In addition or alternatively the distributed database servers may host XML databases object oriented databases NoSQL database key value caches and stores and the like.

Client devices of various types can connect to a remote server infrastructure via a network over one or more communication protocols. All computers can pass information as unstructured data structured files structured data streams such as for example XML structured data objects such as for example JSON objects and or structured messages. Client devices may communicate over various protocols such as for example UDP TCP IP HTTPS and or HTTP. In some cases one or more client devices may communicate via a wireless connection with the network .

Client computers and devices and server computers provide processing storage and input output devices executing application programs. Client devices can also be linked through communications network to other computing devices including other client devices processes and server computers . In some embodiments server computers host and execute software implementing centralized persistent data storage and retrieval. The network can be a local area network and or a wide area network that is part of a remote access network a global network e.g. the Internet a worldwide collection of computers and or gateways that currently use respective protocols TCP IP UDP etc. to communicate with one another.

Multiple client computer devices can each execute and operate instances of the apps or applications accessing the automated system. In some embodiments mobile apps provide the same functionality as applications running on the automated station excluding any hardware related biological statistical information collection functions. The mobile app can also contain functionality locating exercise facilities based on the current location of the device running the mobile app a selected location or both. Additional functions can include the ability to edit a user profile view past routines view workouts and track goal progress. In certain implementations an HTML browser interface is made available by one or more web servers e.g. for display on client devices .

On reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will recognize that many of the components discussed as separate units may be combined into one unit and an individual unit may be split into several different units. Further the various functions could be contained in one computer or distributed over several networked computers and or devices. The identified components may be upgraded and replaced as associated technology improves and advances are made in computing technology.

In some embodiments the automated systems are distributed across centralized master servers and site specific slave servers . The centralized master servers can store user profiles as well as master copies of one or more database tables see e.g. through . Site specific slave servers can consist of a local implementation of some or all of the workout generation logic of the centralized master server . Automated stations located at the specific site can access the site specific slave server to obtain information such as for example user profile data. In some instances the site specific slave server generates workouts and modifies existing workouts locally without communicating with the centralized master server . The site specific slave servers may store complete copies partial copies or both of database tables thus reducing the amount of inbound and outbound data traffic. In some instances some or all local database table copies are read only and are updated using a replication scheme such as snapshot replication. Any changes originating at the site specific slave servers or the automated stations are either redirected to the centralized master servers with the site specific local servers re synced or alternatively are stored on the site specific local server and later synced through a synchronization mechanism capable of resolving conflicts such as database integrity conflicts.

Referring now to device is an example of one or more of the computing devices of . In one configuration device includes a bus that interconnects major subsystems of the servers and client devices such as a central processor a memory typically RAM but which may also include ROM flash RAM or the like an input output controller an external audio device such as a speaker system via an audio output interface an external device such as a display screen via display adapter an input device e.g. a scanner interfaced with an input controller an interactive touchscreen device coupled with a touchscreen controller a weighing scale device implementing an optional programmable logic device e.g. ASIC FPGA or the like an optional biometric sensor implementing one or more logic circuits and a storage interface to a data store . Also included is a network interface which can be coupled directly to bus .

In some embodiments the interactive touchscreen can include a touch sensitive display overlay allowing player interaction with the images on the display . The touchscreen and the touchscreen controller can be connected to the display adapter . In certain instances a user can make decisions and input selections into the device by touching the touchscreen at the appropriate places. The device may further include multiple communication ports for enabling communication of the processor with external peripherals such as external video sources expansion buses sensors scanners or other displays a SCSI port or a key pad. In some implementations the device includes at least one weighing scale implementing a programmable logic device in communication with the central processor .

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system if any and biosensing and automated workout generation system application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory may contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components or devices .

As with the other storage interfaces of device storage interface can connect to a standard computer readable medium such as a fixed disk drive for storage retrieval of information or both. The fixed disk can be a part of device or can be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote device via a direct network link. Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including Wi Fi digital cellular telephone connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. displays computing devices keypads cameras authentication devices and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present systems and methods. The devices and subsystems therefore may be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . The aspect of some operations of a system such as that shown in are readily known in the art and are not discussed in detail in this application. Computer instructions to implement the present disclosure may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium such as one or more of system memory or data store .

Referring now to through a series of database tables are provided supporting the various services and functions of the applications and devices of the several automated system embodiments. A User Profile table contains user authentication and identification information. Goal Data Current Gym Current Routine and Past Routines are referenced in corresponding tables.

The Routine table defines a workout routine. It is associated with a specific user and contains a reference to the Goal Data used to create the workouts. Workout Days is an integer describing how many days out of a week the user will work out. Duration is the time in minutes for each workout. Workouts is a list of workout table references.

Workout table describes the exercises for one workout day. It is associated with a routine by a Routine Table ID reference. Exercise Sets is a list of Exercise Set table entries.

The Exercise Set table describes one exercise in a workout. The Workout ID associates an Exercise Set record to a single Workout record. The Exercise field references the exercise included in the Exercise Set. Number of Sets indicates how many sets to are to be completed as part of the workout. Reps indicates how many time to repeat the exercise for one set. Rest Time is the wait time between sets.

The Exercise table describes an exercise. Name is the name of the exercise. IsCardio is a flag indicating if this is a cardio based exercise. Equipment is a list of equipment associated with the exercise. Main Muscle is the name of the primary muscle that is used during this exercise. Secondary Muscles is a list of muscles other than the primary muscle used during the exercise. Demo Data is the location of the demonstrational videos or animation files if available.

The Equipment table describes a piece of equipment in a gym. Name is the name of the equipment and IsMachine is a flag used to indicate if this is free weight equipment or machine equipment.

Goal Data table describes the data relating to a user s goals. Target Weight is the weight goal for a user. Target Body Fat is the user s goal percentage for their body fat. Target Muscles are populated through processing goal question responses and lists of the muscles to be worked out during the routine. Cardio Duration is the duration in minutes for cardio exercises during a workout for the routine. Resistance Duration is the duration in minutes for the resistance exercises during a workout for the routine. Cardio Intensity is the intensity key for cardio exercises for this routine. Resistance Intensity is the intensity key for the resistance exercise for this routine.

The Gym table describes the location contact information and equipment for a gym. The Equipment List references equipment from the Equipment table.

Referring now to through in some embodiments the automated station includes a weighing scale at the base of station a support arm extending upwardly from the base and an interactive touchscreen at an upper portion of the support arm . In some instances the automated station also includes two electrical impedance sensors extending from the stand or touchscreen . In certain implementations the sensors are mounted in opposed handles extending laterally outwardly from opposed sides of the touchscreen . The automated station can include an internal computer having a microprocessor digital memory and storage resources the touchscreen display and communications facilities such as an Ethernet port a USB port other ports if desired and wireless Wi Fi connectivity.

In order for the automated system to generate a personalized workout the user will provide certain initial information to the automated system and additional information will be collected from specialized custom hardware present in the system. Data preferably supplied by the user may include but is not necessarily limited to a username system password e mail address name height and sex. The user will also preferably input their body type ectomorph mesomorph or endomorph by selecting one of the three images that most closely matches their own body shape. The user may then enter his or her specific goals including but not limited to desired weight loss muscle building and or hybrid. The automated system may preferably collect certain biological parameters from the user including but not limited to heart rate body fat percentage weight and the like via at least one of weighing scale device and biometric sensor . For example and without limitation the user s weight may be collected by weighing scale device and biometric sensor may comprise the electrical impedance sensors that may be used to determine body fat percentage and obtain any other relevant biological data within the extent of their measurement capability. These parameters will be stored as a part of the user s profile and be available to the automated system applications for use in generating a workout recommendation for the user. In some embodiments biometric sensor may be in data transfer communication with one or more of the computing devices of the automated system and data there from be utilized by an application of the automated system to generate exercise recommendations for the user see .

Referring now to an automated station application comprising a workout generation engine displays one or more workout selection items such as for example a one time workout selection item. Once the user selects a workout item the automated station application sends the workout selection and a validation request to the workout generation engine requesting workout validation data for the current gym. Once the server receives the request validation data is generated and returned to the station application . The automated station application uses this data at least in part to generate one or more appropriate workout options . The user then sets one or more of the parameters represented by the workout options to be submitted for the generation of a workout. These parameters can include for example the duration a list of muscles to work out and the workout intensity key. The automated station application then determines that there no erroneous parameters entered and that they are valid for example by using the duration to check the number of muscles that can be used for the duration against the number of muscles in the list and by checking to make sure the value for the Workout Intensity Key is one of the three possible values . In the case of an invalid parameter the user is prompted to make changes . Once all parameters are determined to be valid the automated station application marshals the parameters into a JSON object where the key is the parameter name and the value is the selected value. The automated station application then sends a request to the server to generate a workout passing the JSON object as data . Upon receiving the request the server executes a generate workout routine generating the workout . The generated workout is then returned to the requesting automated station application as an array of JSON objects . Each JSON object in this array corresponds to a record in the Exercise Database with the data from the intensity table for the intensity key chosen appended. Once received the automated station application then displays the workout .

In some embodiments a JSON table indexed by the workout duration for example 30 45 or 60 minutes is returned as a table containing at least two values. These values can include an ExerciseCount such as the maximum number of exercise that can be generated for the selected duration and the MuscleCount such as the maximum number of muscles that can be exercised for the selected duration. The following is an example of a portion of the JSON object content for multiple durations 

In some instances a JSON object is provided including enumerated data types including for example Strength MuscleMass and Endurance . These values can be used to access data from a workout intensity table stored and communicating in for example a JSON object. This object can include for example the number of repetitions per exercise set the number exercise sets per workout the rest periods between sets and the like. The following is an example of a portion of the JSON object content for workout intensity JSON object 

In some instances a JSON object is provided including for example data for use by the workout generator for the creation of one or more workouts. The following is an example of a portion of the JSON object content for a workout JSON object 

Referring now to a workout generation algorithm generates a workout based on parameters from the user. Once the workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm receives the workout parameters it will generate an equipment list via said algorithm. In some instances the generation of this list involves identification of equipment associated with a particular location . Exercises associated with the equipment in the equipment list are retrieved and an exercise list created . Two compound exercises are randomly selected added to the workout for each muscle identified in the workout data . Once successfully added to the workout the exercise is removed from the exercise list .

If a muscle does not have two compound exercises assigned the workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm randomly selects either one or two isolation exercise for the missing compound exercise s for that muscle and assign the exercises to the workout . Once successfully added to the workout the exercise is removed from the exercise list . If there are still exercise slots open for each open slot the workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm randomly selects a muscle and then randomly selects an isolation exercise for that muscle from the list of available exercises . The exercise is assigned to the workout and once successfully added the exercise is removed from the exercise list . Once all exercise slots are filled the workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm then appends the number of sets reps and rest between sets data from the intensity table based on the intensity key selected by the user.

Referring now to in some embodiments a goal based workout generation process implemented by the workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm generates a workout based on goals set by the user. Initial intensity determining questions are displayed on the station application . Once responses to the intensity questions are received one or more goal determining questions are displayed . Responses are received by the station application and one or more intensity values goal values or both are determined . In some instances these questions are presented in a different order or simultaneously. The current user routine is then set to past user workout routine and a new goal based workout is generated . This workout once generated is saved as the current user workout routine .

This goal based workout generation process can in some implementations initiate at the creation of a profile or editing of user goals. In some instances the automated station application displays a set of questions designed to determine the correct intensity for a user. These questions can be from a fixed set of questions stored in the client app retrieved from a server or both and result in determination of an intensity key the duration for each workout and how many days in a 7 day work week will be regarded as workout days. The automated station application may then guide the user though a set of question to determine the user s goals.

In some embodiments the goal questions are arranged in a tree like data structure in which the leaf nodes contain the list of muscles to work out and two flags indicating if cardio exercises are to be added and if cardio exercises are added every workout or consolidated into one day. This tree is traversed using a depth first search that terminates on at the first leaf node encountered. The answers to the questions can dictate which child branch is executed. The goal and intensity data are saved in the user s profile resulting in the current routine being saved as a past routine and replaced with a new routine. The goal based workout generation process is then executed for the new routine using at least the goal and intensity data as inputs.

Referring now to and the workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm generates a workout based on a set of goals. The workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm first determines the number of workout days then creates an indexed workout parameter buffer to hold the workout data . The size of the buffer will correspond to the number of days to workout. Each index corresponds to one workout day. The data in each index of this buffer can include the resistance duration cardio duration and a list of muscles to workout . The list of target muscles can be determined at least in part from the user goal data . The target muscles from the goal data are split out over the set of days based at least in part on the resistance duration and the muscles per duration parameter of the workout validation data . As an example if the resistance duration is 30 minutes and the validation data says that the total number of muscles for a 30 minute workout is three then three muscles are added to each day.

The workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm creates a target muscle queue then populates the queue by copying the target muscle items in the target muscle list to the queue. A determination is made as to whether each index in the buffer has the correct number of muscle assignments per index . If the determination returns false the muscle queue is checked to ensure it has contains at least one muscle item and the muscle item at the head of the queue is dequeued and appended to the list of muscles for the index . In the event the queue is empty it is repopulated prior to initiating a dequeue event.

Once all index positions are properly assigned target muscles each index is looped through in order to correctly populate the indexes with exercises. A workout is generated in accordance with the method of . For each index a determination is made whether a cardio duration is set . If so the workout generation engine comprising the workout generation algorithm will select a random cardio exercise . The random selection process can involve the creation of a cardio exercise array populated with the cardio exercises and a counter corresponding to the number array positions through which the number of positions is calculated at least in part by assessing the cardio duration and the cardio exercises per duration parameter . So long as the counter is not empty the random cardio exercise is selected and the cardio exercise value for the index is appended with the selected cardio exercise . Once the appending is successful the cardio exercise is removed from the array and the counter is decremented by one . In some embodiments duplicate cardio exercises are not appended to a single day index position. After exercise assignments are complete for all days the workout routine is saved and associated with the user profile .

Referring now to an introductory view is displayed on the station display where a user can create an account by selecting the create account button login to an existing account by selecting the user login button or generate a one time workout without creating or accessing a user account or user profile by selecting the workout generator button .

Referring now to selecting the workout generator button displays the one time workout view . This view can include a back button in the upper left corner that will direct the application to display the introductory view. There is also a strength button for generating a resistance workout and a cardio button for generating cardio workout.

Referring now to a workout parameters view receives different settings for use in workout generation algorithms. This can include setting the total duration of the workout setting the intensity of the workout and setting the muscle groups for the workout. In some embodiment an anatomical graphic is displayed animating the different muscles and highlighting muscles to be exercised in this workout.

Referring now to a user profile view displays the values and controls associated with the user profile. In some embodiments the hexagon buttons to the left will animate in a circle as the user scrolls though the different options. Selecting a hexagon button populates the data display area on the right with stored data associated with the button selection event.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures may be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and may be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

The various illustrative blocks components and engines described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor multiple microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Furthermore while various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems the functions described herein may be implemented in hardware software executed by a processor firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software executed by a processor the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Other examples and implementations are within the scope and spirit of the disclosure and appended claims. For example due to the nature of software functions described above can be implemented using software executed by a processor hardware firmware hardwiring or combinations of any of these. Feature implementing functions may also be physically located at various positions including being distributed such that portions of functions are implemented at different physical locations.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of . Thus for example a list of at least one of A B or C means A or B or C or AB or AC or BC or ABC i.e. A and B and C .

In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. In addition the term based on as used in the specification and the claims is to be construed as meaning based at least upon. Also the term immediately with respect to a delay of machine action means without delay typically perceivable by human users.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present systems and methods and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present systems and methods and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

