---

title: Customized presentation of event guest lists in a social networking system
abstract: A user creates an event in a social networking system specifying a location, a time, and a guest list of other users invited to the event. The social networking system generates a page associated with the event that provides information about the event and identifies whether users have responded to invitations to the event. The content of the page may be customized for the user viewing the page to encourage the viewing user to attend the event. For example, the viewing user's relationship to and/or similar characteristics with other users on the guest list is determined and used by the social networking system to identify the users whose responses to invitations are shown to the viewing user via the page. Additionally, a notification method more prominently distributes acceptances of invitations to other users to encourage attendance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661089&OS=09661089&RS=09661089
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09661089
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150415
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 584 714 filed Aug. 13 2012 now allowed which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to social networking and more specifically to communicating information about other users responses to invitations to an event to a viewing user.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable online connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become increasingly prevalent. In particular social networking systems allow users to associate themselves with other users to create a web of connections among the users of the social networking system. For example users may establish connections with each other based on one or more common attributes in user profiles such as geographic location employer job type age musical preferences interests online games or other attributes.

Some social networking systems also include tools that allow users to calendar events to coordinate activities with other users. In addition to providing event scheduling for the users involved in the social networking system context these calendaring tools also serve a socializing function of informing other users of the activities of their contacts. Often a user creates an event by identifying a location a time and a guest list of other users invited to the event and a social networking system disseminates invitations to the event to other users. The social networking system receives responses from the other users to allow the creating user to determine who will be attending the event. Additionally the social networking system may also generate and maintain a page associated with the event allowing users to exchange information with each other via the page or to identify other users invited to the event or planning to attend the event in a convenient location.

However many social networking systems use a page associated with an event to merely identify lists of users and their planned attendance to the event. While this provides a user with information about the event the information provided does not account for a user s relationships with other users. For example rather than identify other users connected to an invited user on the page associated with the event conventional techniques merely provide a listing of users attending possibly attending or invited to the event. While this provides some information about the event to the user the information does not account for the user s relationships with other users which may significantly influence the user s decision to attend the event.

A social networking system allows its users to interact in a variety of ways to promote interaction between the users. For example a social networking system allows a social networking system user to create an event where a group of social networking system users meet at a time and location. A user of a social networking system typically creates an event by specifying a location a time and a guest list of other social networking system users invited to the event. Additionally the user creating the event may identify another social networking system user as an event host which is a social networking system user with the ability to invite additional users to the event to modify data associated with the event and or to identify additional event hosts. When an event is created the social networking system may also create a page associated with the event allowing various users to post information associated with the event and or to allow users to easily obtain information about the event by accessing the page associated with the event. In a web environment the page may be a web page whereas in other environments such as native applications on mobile devices the page may simply be a display screen on the user interface of the application. To encourage invited users to attend an event the social networking system customizes presentation of a page associated with the event for a user viewing the page i.e. the viewing user where the viewing user may not have responded to an invitation or otherwise indicated an intention to attend the event.

In one embodiment profile information for the viewing user and one or more other users invited to the event is used to determine the viewing user s relationship or similarities with other users invited to the event. The page associated with the event is then customized to display the pictures and or identifying information for one or more of the users who have confirmed their attendance at the event or users who have indicated that they may attend the event. The social networking system may also use a notification system that distributes an accepting user s acceptance of an invitation to other users with a relationship to or similarity to the accepting user to further encourage event attendance.

For example a viewing user may request a page associated with an event page in response to receiving an invitation to the event. Upon receiving the request for the page associated with the event the social network system accesses a guest list associated with the event and determines the attendance state of each user on the guest list. The attendance state of a user indicates the user s intention to attend the event. For example the social networking system allows a user to select from a group of possible attendance states such as attending maybe attending not attending or not responded. Based on information from the viewing user s user profile and the user profiles of the users in each of the groups of users users within each group are ranked based on relationship and or similarity to the viewing user. Using the ranking users from different groups are selected and presented to the viewing user. In one embodiment from among the group of users who have accepted an invitation users in the group having the highest number of mutual friends as the viewing user or that have a threshold number of matching or similar interests with the viewing user are presented to the viewing user via the event page. In another embodiment the system trains a model using historical data and selects users based on a likelihood that showing the selected users will result in the viewing user attending the event.

To further encourage participation in an event the social networking system may also prominently distribute acceptances to events to other users. In one embodiment the social networking system determines a type associated with received responses to an event invitation. Example types of responses include an acceptance a decline or a qualified acceptance e.g. a maybe . If a response has a type indicating an acceptance a message identifying the acceptance and the user accepting the invitation is posted to the page associated with the event. A message describing the acceptance of the invitation may also be posted on a page associated with the accepting user. In some embodiments a notification of the acceptance may be sent to other users connected to the accepting user encouraging users connected to the accepting user to also attend the event.

To minimize potential negative effects of responses declining an invitation on the decisions of others to attend an event the social networking system may limit the other users notified of a response declining an invitation to an event. For example if the system receives a response declining attendance to an event the social networking system provides provide a prompt to the declining user to make a post if desired. If the declining user provides a post the post is posted on a decline page that is separate from the event page. A notification of the declination can be transmitted to the inviting user and the event host but not to other users of the social network system. This limits distribution of negative responses to the event to prevent other users from being discouraged from attending the event.

The Figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the system. In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the system. Connections in social networking systems are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on frame of reference. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connected to each other in the system Bob and Joe are each other s friends. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections. For example two users may not be connected to each other but may each be connected to a third user who would be a mutual friend or a mutual connection of the two users. In many instances online friends may also be friends in real life for example if the users are related by attendance at the same school or work for the same employer.

In addition to online interactions with other users such as by monitoring and responding to posts on a friend s home page wall instant messaging or interactive online game playing e.g. Mafia Wars the social networking system provides users with the ability to organize and facilitate interactions in real life by allowing the wide dissemination of events that may be of interest to a particular web of friends. Using the medium of a social networking system a user may invite other users to real life events such as parties baby showers sporting events networking events and the like. Again using the medium of social networks the invitees can accept or decline.

Once responses to an event have been collected the social network system can display a page associated with the event. Such an events page can show users who have responded to the event by category of attendance or RSVP status. By utilizing the connections established among the users who are invitees of event the visual display of attendees of an event can be sorted so as to encourage attendance of the event by other users. Furthermore a posting and notification system can be employed to also allow non invitees who may be friends or mutual friends to join the event.

Social networking system users invited to an event receive an invitation to the event from the social networking system. When an invited user provides the social networking system with a response to the invitation the social networking system associates an acceptance state with the invited user that is based on the response. In one embodiment the social networking system maintains a specified number of acceptance states. For example the social networking system maintains four potential acceptance states an accepted state a possible state an invited state and a declined state. The accepted state is associated with users who have provided a response indicating that they are attending an event. The possible state is associated with users who have provided a response indicating that they are uncertain if they can attend an event. The invited state is associated with users who have been sent an invitation to an event but have not provided a response. The declined state is associated with users who have provided a response indicating they are not attending the event.

The event page may identify users based on acceptance states. In the example event page of information associated with users is displayed in different user groups A B C based on acceptance states. A user s image name or other identifying information may be displayed in a user group A B C allowing a user viewing the event page to quickly identify different groups of users such as users having different acceptance states.

For example an attending user group A includes an attending user summary A identifying that the users displayed in the attending user group A are attending the event and identifies the total number of users in the attending user group A. Similarly a possible user group B includes a possible user summary B to indicate a total number of users indicating they may attend the event with a subset of those users identified in the possible user group B. An invited user summary C identifies a number of users that received an invitation to the event but that have not provided a response to the social networking system with a subset of those users included in the invited user group C.

The accepted user group A the possible user group B and the invited user group C display information identifying a subset of users in the respective groups. For example a profile picture and user name are displayed for a subset of users in the accepted user group A and in the invited user group C while a profile picture is displayed for a subset of users in the possible user group B. The subset of users displayed in the various groups A B C may be selected based on various factors. For example a subset of users in a group A B C having the highest affinity for the user viewing the event page are displayed. The displayed subset of users may be further ranked based on affinity so that users in the subset having a higher affinity for the user viewing the event page are more prominently displayed. In some embodiments the subset of users displayed in a group A B C include users with a connection to the user viewing the event page with other users in the group A B C presented in a separate display responsive to a user interaction with a group A B C. This allows the user viewing the event page to quickly determine if other users to whom the viewing user is connected are attending the event. For example invited users who are connected to the viewing user may be shown on the event page while invited users that are not connected to the viewing user may not be identified on the event page. As another example the subset of users displayed in a group A B C visually distinguishes users in the subset connected to the viewing user from users in the subset that are not connected to the viewing user enabling the viewing user to more easily identify if other users connected to the viewing user are attending the event.

If a group A B C does not include users connected to the viewing user the displayed subset of users may be personalized for the viewing user based on other information such as attributes of the viewing user common to users in a group A B C. For example if the viewing user is single the subset of users displayed in a group A B C may include users that the viewing user would have an interest in dating based on marital status gender gender preference and age of the viewing user and the users in the group A C. As another example the subset of users displayed in a group A B C may include users having professional or other interests e.g. hobbies in common with the viewing user.

Users are presented in the groups A B and C in a manner to encourage the viewing user to attend the event. For example users planning to attend the event or possibly attending the event are more prominently displayed than users that have not responded to the invitation to the event. In one embodiment larger pictures or other identifiers are shown for users accepting an invitation to the event users in the accept group with a smaller number of users providing a response indicating that they are uncertain if they can attend the event displayed using smaller pictures or other identifiers. To further encourage attending the event users connected to the viewing user may be visually distinguished from other users by the event page . For example a profile picture and a user name for users connected to the viewing user may be displayed while a profile picture is displayed for users that are not connected to the viewing user.

The event wall displays content received from users invited to the event and or other users of the social networking system. In some embodiments the ability to post on the event wall depends on the acceptance state of a user. For example in order to encourage participation by undecided viewing users the ability to post comments on the event wall may be limited to invited users having an accepted state or a possible state. Users having a declined state may be directed to a decline wall separate from the event page . This allows the event page to display information from users attending or possibly attending the event to increase the likelihood that additional users attend the event.

The client devices comprise one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. In another embodiment a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the client device such as iOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec . The third party website may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on objects in the object store and stored in the object store .

The object store stores information describing objects associated with the social networking system . Objects may include a variety of data such as pages associated with a user or with an entity actions performed by users images videos audio files or other data maintained by the social networking system . In one embodiment communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system are captured by the social networking system and stored in the object store to describe information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. User activity both on the social networking system and external to the social networking system such as on external website may be tracked and stored in the object store .

The object store includes events associated with the social networking system . An event may be defined for a real world event such as a birthday party. A user interested in attending the event may establish a connection with an object associated with the event the event object . A user may create the event object by defining information about the event such as a time a location and a list of users invited to the event a guest list . Invitations to the event are sent to the users included on the guest list and those users may reply to the invitation with an acceptance state as described above. Additionally users may comment on the event post their own content e.g. pictures from the event and perform any other actions enabled by the social networking system . Accordingly the user creating the event as well as the users included on the guest list for the event may perform various actions that are associated with that event. The object store includes data describing events including one or more pages associated with an event such as shown above in conjunction with .

In one embodiment an edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system in edge objects. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system . The edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Systems and methods for computing user affinities for other users of a social networking system as well as for other objects in the system are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store and or object store may access the edge store to determine connections between users and or objects.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party websites . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the object store . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID webOS or RIM.

In one embodiment a display generator generates an event page personalized for a viewing user as shown for example in . To generate an event page personalized for the viewing user the display generator accesses information associated with the user from the user store such as the user s location based on information in the user store e.g. based on check ins received from the user . Other data associated with the user is also accessed including event information e.g. an event object from the object store . The display generator also accesses information on connections between the viewing user and other users as well as between the viewing user and other objects such as event objects is from the edge store . In one embodiment information retrieved from the user profile store object store and edge store are processed by the display generator to generate groups of users based on the acceptance states of the user the display generator selects users for presentation using the event page based on the acceptance states. For example the display generator ranks users within groups of users based on acceptance states and identifies users presented by the event page as further described below in conjunction with .

In other embodiments different system architectures may be used to generate the event and identify the acceptance states of users invited to the event. For example a third party system such as third party website receives data from a user to define an event and communicates with the social networking system to obtain social data used to categorize users attending the event or to obtain the groups of users and their ranking. Alternatively any system capable of capturing and storing information about interaction with other users or objects such as events may be considered a social networking system . Hence any system using interactions between users including responses to prior event invitations and or attendance of prior events rather than explicit connections between users may group users invited to an event based on attendance state and organize users within a group based on user interaction as described herein. Hence any suitable data describing interactions between users and each other and or users and events may be used to implement the methods described herein.

To encourage viewers of an event to attend a display generator generates an event page customized to a user viewing the event page a viewing user . shows an example of a method for generating an event page personalized to display selected users for a viewing user. Initially the display generator receives a request from a viewing user to view the page associated with an event. The request may include an event identifier or other information allowing the display generator to identify the corresponding event. The display generator accesses a guest list associated with the identified event from the object store . Alternatively the display generator accesses the guest list based on data stored in the object store and the edge store . The guest list identifies users to whom an invitation to the event was sent. In one embodiment the guest list also includes the acceptance state associated with users included on the guest list. Alternatively user profiles associated with users included on the guest list include the acceptance state for the different users.

Based on the acceptance state associated with users included on the guest list the display generator groups the users included on the guest list. In one embodiment display generator groups the users on the guest list into groups based on their acceptance state where users in a group have a common acceptance state. For example the users included in the guest list are grouped into a group of users having an accepted state attending users a group of users having a possible state possibly attending users a group of users having an invited state invited users and a group of users having a declined state declined users .

The display generator selects a group of users associated with an attendance state and organizes the users in the selected group based on their relationship to the viewing user. To determine relationships between the viewing user and users in the selected group the display generator may access user information contained in the user profile store and rank the users in the selected group based on attributes of the viewing user and attributes of the users in the selected group. The display generator may also access information about the user from the edge store when ranking users in the selected group. For example the display generator may rank users in the selected group based on the viewing user s location and the location of users in the selected group prior events attended by the viewing user and users in the selected group affinities between the viewing user and users in the selected group shared interests between the viewing user and users in the selected group or other suitable attributes of the viewing user and or users in the selected group In one embodiment users in the selected group connected to the viewing user have a higher ranking than users in the selected group that are not connected to the viewing user.

Additional criteria may be used when organizing the users within the selected group that are connected to the viewing user. For example the user hosting the event and or the user inviting the viewing user may be ranked higher than other users so the user hosting the event and or the inviting user may be ranked higher than other users. As another example users within a group connected to the viewing user may be further ranked based on the number of users connected to both the viewing user and to the user in the group mutual connections for example users with a higher number of mutual connections to the viewing user are ranked higher. Other data such as affinity between the viewing user and users in the selected group events commonly attended by the viewing user and users in the selected group common locations of the viewing user and users in the selected group common interests between the viewing user and users in the selected group or other suitable data may be used when organizing users within a group. For example friends can be grouped by diversity of friend clusters. As another example if information associated with the viewing user indicates the viewing user is at its place of employment users in a selected group are organized so that the users in a group that are connected to the viewing user and having the same place of employment or at the location of the place of employment are visually distinguished from other users in the group.

Users within the selected group that are not connected to the viewing user are also organized based on one or more criteria. For example users in the selected group may be ranked based on the number of mutual connections with the viewing user so that users not connected to the viewing user having a higher number of mutual connections with the viewing user are ranked higher. Examples of other criteria for organizing users in the selected group not connected to the viewing user include similar interests background and or other user profile information between the viewing user and the users in the selected group. For example if the viewing user is single users in the selected group that are not connected to the viewing user may be ranked based on relationship status gender and gender preference of the viewing user and or of the users in the selected group. Hence if the viewing user is single the users in the selected group may be organized so that single users in the selected group having the gender preferred by the viewing user have a higher ranking To accomplish this the display generator may access relationship status and preferred gender information in the viewing user s user profile store and compare that to user profile information for users in the selected group. Hence the display generator uses information maintained by the social networking system about the viewing user and additional users to customize users identified by a page associated with an event to make joining the event more attractive to the viewing user.

In some embodiments the display generator may organize users in a selected group based on any suitable interactions between the users in the selected group and the viewing user. For example rather than use connections between the viewing user and the users in the selected group the display generator may organize users in the selected group based on any suitable interactions between the viewing user and the users in the selected group. Examples of interactions between the viewing user and users in the selected group include an interest common to the viewing user and the user within the selected group prior events attended by the user within the selected group prior events attended by the viewing user and communication between the viewing user and the user within the selected group. This allows organization of users in a group even if connection information between the viewing user and the users in the group is unavailable or is limited.

After organizing users in the selected group the display generator determines if groups of users are associated with additional attendance states. In one embodiment the display generator identifies a subset of attendance states for which users are organized so the display generator determines if groups of users are associated with additional attendance states in the subset. Alternatively the display generator determines if a group of users is associated with any of the attendance states. Responsive to determining a group of users is associated with an additional attendance state the display generator selects the additional attendance state and organizes the users in the group associated with the additional attendance state as described above.

Based on the organization of users within one or more groups the display generator selects users from a group and generates the page associated with the event that identifies the selected users. The display generator may generate a display including users invited to the event and organize how the users are presented based on the grouping and organization described above. In some embodiments the generated page differently displays users connected to the viewing user and users not connected to the viewing user. For example while users connected to the viewing user may be displayed according to their location in the organization with profile picture and identifying information shown users not connected to the viewing user may have only their profile picture displayed with or without ranking a display also referred to as a facepile . Additionally presentation of users may depend upon the attendance state associated with the user. For example a profile picture and a name are displayed for users in the group associated with the accepted state while a profile picture is displayed for users in the group associated with the possible state.

The display generator may display the users in any suitable manner. Rather than display the selected users on a page associated with the event the display generator may identify the selected users as a story in another user s newsfeed or as recommendation units presented to another user. For example the display generator may select users that are identified to another user by any suitable communication channel based on the organization and ranking described above. Hence the display generator allows a user to be notified of other users confirming attendance to an event that are likely to encourage the user to attend the event as well.

In some embodiments the display generator places a limit on the number of users displayed within different groups associated with different acceptance states. The display generator may generate the page so that an increased number of smaller pictures are shown in a group to increase the number of users identified to the viewing user. In some embodiments the order of users displayed within a group is randomized so that different users or a different ordering of users is shown different times the page is generated for the viewing user. The display generator may also include one or more advertisements based on the users attending the event the users invited to the event information about the viewing user the event type the event location or other suitable information for targeting advertisements.

Users connected to the viewing user are ranked based on their affinities for the viewing user. For example users with higher affinities for the viewing user have a higher position in the ranking Additional information about the users in the selected group may be used to modify the ranking. In one embodiment the ranking is modified based on the involvement of users in the selected group with the event based on data from the user profile store and from the object store . For example the ranking of a user in the selected group that created or that is hosting the event is increased. As another example the ranking of a user in the selected group that invited the viewing user to the event is increased. Additional attributes of the viewing user and attributes of the users in the selected group from the use profile store may be used to further modify the ranking. For example the ranking is modified to increase the position in the ranking of users in the selected group that previously attended events with the viewing user. Other information may be used to modify the ranking such as the viewing user s location and the location of users in the selected group shared interests between the viewing user and users in the selected group or other suitable attributes of the viewing user and or users in the selected group.

Users not connected to the viewing user may be ranked based on the number of users connected to the viewing user and connected to a user in the selected group. For example users in the selected group connected to a larger number of other users that are connected to the viewing user have a higher ranking. The ranking may be modified based on attributes of the viewing user and attributes of the users in the selected group. For example the ranking is modified to increase the position in the ranking of users in the selected group that previously attended events with the viewing user or to increase the position in the ranking of users in the selected group having a least a threshold number of interests in common with the viewing user. Other information may be used to modify the ranking such as the viewing user s location and the location of users in the selected group or other suitable attributes of the viewing user and or users in the selected group. For example if the viewing user is single the ranking of users in the selected group that are not connected to the viewing user may be modified based on relationship status gender and gender preference of the viewing user and or of the users in the selected group. Hence if the viewing user is single the ranking of the users in the selected group may be modified so that single users in the selected group having the gender preferred by the viewing user have a higher ranking as described above.

In one embodiment the display generator displays users in the selected group that are connected to the viewing user using a priority display setting to make these users more visible. For example a user name and a profile picture for users in the selected group connected to the viewing user and having at least a threshold position are displayed. Users in the selected group that are not connected to the viewing user may be displayed using a lower priority display setting. For example a profile picture only is displayed for users in a selected group that are not connected to the viewing user and have a threshold position in the ranking.

To encourage undecided users to join an event the social networking system may identify users attending or possibly attending an event on the corresponding event page while omitting users declining an invitation to the event from being identified using the event page. illustrates one embodiment of a method for notifying social networking system users of responses to an event invitation in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

The social networking system receives a response to an event invitation from a user and determines the type of the response. For purposes of illustration shows an embodiment where the response has one of three types an accept a maybe or a decline. An accept response indicates the user is planning to attend the event while a maybe response indicates that the user may attend the event. A decline response indicates that the user is not planning on attending the event.

If the response is an accept response the display generator posts a message identifying the user and the acceptance to the event page. For example a message indicating that the user is planning to attend the event is presented in an event wall on the event page. In one embodiment a message indicating the user is planning to attend the event is also posted on a page associated with the user. A notification of the acceptance may also be sent to other users connected to the accepting user to encourage users connected to the accepting user to also attend the event.

If a maybe response is received a message identifying the responding user and that the responding user may be attending the event is posted to the event page. For example a message indicating that the responding user may attend the event is presented in an event wall of the event page. The maybe response may also be posted to a page associated with the responding user and or a notification that the responding user may attend the event is sent to other users connected to the responding user. In some embodiments notifications of maybe or accept responses may be tailored to the affinity between the responding user and other users connected to the responding user. For example notifications of maybe or accept responses are pushed to users with at least a threshold affinity for the responding user while notifications of maybe or accept responses are sent via conventional communication channels to users with less than the threshold affinity for the responding user.

By disseminating information about accept and maybe responses through a variety of communication channels the social networking system increases awareness of users attending or possibly attending an event. Additional examples of communication channels for distributing accept and maybe responses to event invitations include messages to users connected to the responding user via the social networking system or mobile devices stories included in a newsfeed presented to users connected to the responding user text messages e mails presentation of information on websites external to the social networking system via a social plug in or iframe or any other suitable communication channel. This publication of positive responses to event invitations may increase the likelihood of additional users accepting an invitation to the event. In some embodiments the notifications sent to users connected to a user providing an acceptance or a maybe response includes a link or other information allowing the users receiving the notification to join the event. This increase the amount of users able to accept an invitation to the event or join the event by making additional use of connections between users.

Distribution of accept and maybe responses may be based on one or more additional factors to further encourage attendance of the event. For example if a user is within a specified distance of an event s location the user may receive or more frequently receive information identifying accept and maybe responses. As another example the distribution of accept and maybe responses to a user may be modified based on the user s availability or current status for example if the user is available at the time of the event or is creating another event information about maybe and accept responses is more frequently sent to the user. Information about accept and maybe responses may be sent to a user with increasing frequency or with different amounts of detail within a specified time from the time of the event.

However if a decline response is received the social networking system prompts the responding user for a posting identifying a reason for declining or providing other information. For example the display generator presents an input region to the responding user to provide a reason for declining. If a posting about declining the invitation is received the posting is posted on a decline page that is separate from the event page. For example the display generator creates the decline page which identifies users declining invitations to the event as well as postings received from the declining users. Access to the decline page may be limited to certain users such as the user hosting the event the user creating the event and or users that invited other users to the event. In one embodiment the social networking system also transmits a notification identifying the decline response and the responding user to the event host and to the user that invited the responding user.

Hence posts identifying users attending or possibly attending the event are displayed on the event page allowing other users to quickly identify users that expressed an interest in the event. This encourages other users of a social networking system to also attend the event. To further encourage users joining an event users invited to the event who decline an invitation are identified using a decline page that is separate from the event page. To prevent discouragement of other users from attending an event posts made by users declining an invitation to the event are displayed on the decline page making them less visible to other users. Similarly by notifying a more limited set of users e.g. the event host the inviting user about a user declining the invitation negative responses to the event are not broadcast to a wide audience of users.

To the left users who are in the going maybe or invited acceptance groups are displayed according to the methods discussed herein. A user s image name or other identifying information may be displayed allowing a viewing user to quickly identify different groups of users such as those in different acceptance states. The number of users in an acceptance group is displayed. As discussed herein the display of users can be customized for a particular viewing user according to the methods disclosed herein.

The event page can also be customized for the display of advertisements that may be of interest to the viewing user based on the viewing user s profile those invited or attending the event the event type the event location or other targeting information.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some embodiments of the invention may utilize algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

