---

title: System and method for managing a supply of breast milk
abstract: A system is disclosed for managing a supply of breast milk. In one form the system includes a codified container for receiving expressed breast milk. A computing device receives an image of the expressed milk in the codified container. The codification allows for software to recognize the size and type of the container, as well as scale and orientation, to translate the image into an accurate volume. The milk data is then processed and analyzed to produce feedback regarding the pumping session, such as logs, charts, or reminders. In other embodiments, nipple positioning may be analyzed as well.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09370612&OS=09370612&RS=09370612
owner: MEDELA HOLDING AG
number: 09370612
owner_city: Baar
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20151005
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 208 054 filed Mar. 13 2014 which is a non provisional of U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 780 029 filed on Mar. 13 2013 the contents of which are fully incorporated by reference herein.

This application relates to a system and method for monitoring organizing recording and troubleshooting the collection and or dispensing of breast milk.

Human breast milk collection when not fed directly to an infant is generally expressed into a collection container such as a bottle or bag. The expression and collection of the breast milk is usually accomplished with the aid of a breastpump. Breast milk is important to the nutritional needs of an infant and requires significant effort on the part of the mother to collect store protect and ultimately feed the milk to the infant.

Mothers have a desire to monitor their milk production to understand how they are performing. Monitoring milk production helps mothers gauge how much milk they have how effectively they are collecting and expressing milk and may provide clinical data to a physician for troubleshooting. This type of information is most often manually recorded in a pumping log which may be in the form of a journal or electronic software in which a mother may enter information regarding her pumping session including how much milk was collected the date time of the collection which breast s the milk was collected from etc. A manual pumping log is a tedious process as it requires the mother to keep track of her pumping session and write down information. To effectively analyze her performance from the log the mother would need to enter this data into a computer to evaluate trends and anomalies.

It is desirable therefore to provide a system to the mother that can easily and accurately capture and manage milk collection information that minimizes the effort involved and that works seamlessly with her lifestyle. With the advances in portable computing power as demonstrated in the increasing capabilities of smart phones data can be collected and utilized in situ. A milk collection device that enables automatic data collection through interaction with a computer such as a smart phone would be beneficial to mothers.

A system and method for managing a supply of breast milk is provided. The system includes a codified container for receiving expressed breast milk and a computing device for receiving an image of the expressed milk in the codified container. The codification allows for software to recognize the size and type of the container as well as to scale and orient to translate the image into an accurate volume. The milk data is then processed and analyzed to produce feedback regarding the pumping session such as logs charts or reminders.

In one embodiment a method for managing a supply of breast milk of a mother is disclosed. The method includes receiving via a computing device at least one image of a container for receiving expressed breast milk the container including a codification element associated therewith recognizing the codification element using the computing device analyzing the codification element using the computing device and producing feedback regarding the supply of expressed breast milk based on the analysis.

In yet another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed. The computer readable medium has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions comprising recognizing a codification element associated with a container of expressed breast milk obtaining information regarding the codification element analyzing the codification element and providing information regarding the supply of expressed breast milk based on the analysis.

In yet another embodiment a container for collecting expressed breast milk from a mother is disclosed. The container includes at least one codification element. The codification element is configured to be analyzed by a computing device to provide analysis and feedback regarding the mother s breast milk supply expressed breast milk within the container.

In yet another embodiment a method for managing the fit of a mother s nipple within a breastshield is disclosed. The method includes receiving via a computing device at least one image of a breastpump kit or portion thereof for receiving expressed breast milk the breastpump kit including a codification element associated therewith recognizing the codification element using the computing device analyzing the codification element using the computing device and producing feedback regarding the fit of the mother s nipple based on the analysis.

In yet another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed. The computer readable medium has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions comprising recognizing a codification element associated with a breastpumping kit obtaining information regarding the codification element analyzing the codification element and providing information regarding the fit of the mother s nipple within a breastshield based on the analysis.

In yet another embodiment a collection system for collecting expressed breast milk from a mother is provided. The collection system includes a breastpumping kit including a breast shield a valve a connector piece a collection container and a breastpump and at least one codification element. The at least one codification element is configured to be analyzed by a computing device to provide analysis and feedback regarding the fit of the mother s nipple within the breast shield.

These and other features and advantages of the present application will be further understood and appreciated when considered in relation to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings in which 

The system of the present application uses a milk collection device that enables breastpumping data collection through interaction with a computing device. The computing device may be a smart phone a tablet digital camera or any other computing device for example. Many computing devices include a camera capable of taking both pictures and videos. The camera in combination with a custom software application may be configured to recognize a codified collection container to determine milk volumes. In one example the mother pumps breast milk into a codified collection container. The mother then uses her computing device to scan or capture an image of the collection container containing the pumped breast milk. In another embodiment a video or series of images of the collection container may be taken. The collection container codification allows for software to recognize the size and or type of container as well as the scale and orientation in order to appropriately translate the visual image s into an accurate volume through a combination of milk level and container type information.

The computing device using an appropriate software application app then pulls relevant data from the image or scan to determine milk volume collected and uses the data to develop a pumping log performance charts and or reminders. The video may be used for real time performance feedback and or troubleshooting.

The present system is not only useful to monitor and analyze milk collection but may also be applied for milk dispensation. Tying the milk data to an inventory management system allows the mother and other vested parties such as caregivers or healthcare workers to see her entire supply inventory and status. The system may also detect or create serialization of the collection container if desired which would enable time based inventory management such as FIFO first in first out or LIFO last in first out . In healthcare settings serialization is also commonly utilized to manage patient safety such that an infant can be guaranteed to receive his her mother s own milk.

In addition the system may be used with real time performance feedback through video monitoring of the collection which may yield additional information such as milk ejections and pumping duration for example. Other example feedback may include flow rate detection of vacuum settings or changes and cycles through the behavior of the nipple breast or kit color shifts in the milk nipple positioning etc.

In another embodiment the system may communicate with or be included within a breastpump. The system may also inform the breastpump of the feedback as part of a closed loop control system and the breastpump may make adjustments based on the feedback received.

Other variations of the codification element may include a reading of the volume markings themselves or the use of a specialized program to analyze one or more features of the container such as shape form or markings of the container to develop a sense of scale. These forms of codification are more discrete and therefore may provide a more aesthetically pleasing design while retaining the ability to convey scale and milk level information to the software application. Additional information may be available through the codification element such as a serial number or other manufacturer or marketing data. The codification and milk level data may also be inherently invisible to the human eye yet detectable through an image with an appropriate detector. For example thermal signatures infrared or ultraviolet could be utilized to detect the codification element . The data provided by the codification element s of the container may provide identification scaling and orientation references i.e. parameters or may contain algorithms for the computing device to computationally assess the image. In this sense the codification element becomes a part of the software and enables execution of the computing device s application.

In another embodiment multiple codification elements can be present on the container . For example both a separate serial number and a scale element may be utilized. Other codification elements may aid the application in determining the viewing angle for more accurate readings. For example a circular element will appear more elliptical the more the viewing angle changes from normal to the surface of codification. For video applications this aids in providing a real time adjustment for container and camera motions. Multiple codifications may also aid in developing a three dimensional construct of the collection container which may be used for flexible or shape changing collection containers such as breast milk collection bags.

After the milk is collected in the codified container a user then scans or takes a picture or video of the container with a computing device having a camera . The computing device may comprise a smart phone tablet digital camera or any other type of computing device with the ability to receive an image or video. The computing device is described in detail below with respect to .

In one embodiment advanced image processing can determine milk volumes regardless of container orientation. is a perspective view of an example of a codified container for use with the system shown in . In the example shown in a container lies on its side and can be processed by the application through an advanced algorithm enabled by the codification and milk level. This can be useful to obtain data for situations where volumes may not line up with container markings such as when containers are frozen where milk was not oriented with the graduated markings when placed in the freezer. Additionally the algorithm may automatically correct for volumetric expansion that occurs when milk is frozen. In another example embodiment the codified container may lie upside down. Furthermore in other embodiments the computing device may employ its own orientation sensors such as accelerometers which can be used for enhancing orientation accuracy and error checking when processing image data.

Further application of the image processing may also yield information regarding features of the milk such as the quality of the milk. For example the color of the milk can relate to fat content or the inclusion of blood. A history of images of the container could be monitored for any changes to quality of the milk. Additionally milk that is allowed to sit for a sufficient duration or spun centrifugally will separate into skim and cream. These layers can be detected in the image and volumetrically established to provide nutritional and breast expression information such as caloric content and degree of breast emptying.

Once the image or video is processed and analyzed by the software application feedback is given to the user or other interested party in the form of a pumping log performance charts reminders etc. In one example the feedback is displayed to the user on the computing device . In another embodiment the feedback may be communicated to a healthcare provider at an office or hospital. Other possibilities exist as well.

Referring now to a collection container for the milk is usually part of a larger assembly of components that comprise a breastpump kit. The kit typically includes a breastshield funnel a valve a connector piece and the container . The container may include one or more codification elements . The codification element may be the same or similar to the codification element described above. Data regarding the pumping session and milk can be collected and analyzed as described above. The image analysis could be further extended to evaluate other aspects of the breastpump kit and the mother. For example the application may determine if the breastpump kit is configured and attached correctly and provide feedback to the mother. The application may also identify other components employed in the kit and their performance. For example the breastshield may be provided in different sizes. These sizes could be detected by the application and evaluated in relation to the position of the mother s nipple within the funnel to determine optimal fit and provide recommendations for a different size to the mother. Nipple position may also be monitored to ensure that the mother has fully and correctly engaged the breastshield during her pumping session. Feedback of this information to the breast pump could enable optimal application of vacuum to enhance comfort and or milk output. In another example the condition of each of the kit components could be analyzed to determine if they need to be repaired or replaced. Other possibilities exist as well. Image or video monitoring of the collection may yield information such as milk ejections pump duration flow rate detection of vacuum settings or changes through the behavior of the nipple breast or kit nipple positioning nipple extension etc. by application of codification elements and data interpretation in various portions of the breastpump kit collection system .

Network interface may comprise a wired or wireless interface arranged to allow device to communicate on a network not shown and with entities via that network such as with a centralized database not shown or a web server not shown for instance and particularly to communicate data to and from the computing device . For example the network interface may comprise a wired or wireless Ethernet interface for communication on a local area network and in turn via a router and or one or more other network elements with entities on the Internet. As another example the network interface may comprise a cellular wireless interface arranged to engage in air interface communication with a radio access network according to a protocol such as LTE WiMAX CDMA GSM or the like and via the radio access network with entities on the Internet. Other examples are possible as well.

User interface may enable the device to interact with a user of the device and may thus comprise output components such as a display screen an audio speaker and the like and input components such as a keyboard camera touch pad or touch screen and the like. In practice the user interface may facilitate presentation to the user of the various views discussed above and may function to receive from a user input of the type discussed above. The software may use the user interface to provide a real time augmented reality view of the image being processed to aid the user in accurate measurement capture.

Processing unit may comprise one or more general purpose processors e.g. microprocessors and or one or more special purpose processors e.g. application specific integrated circuits digital signal processors etc. If processing unit includes multiple processors the processors may be arranged to work in combination e.g. in parallel or separately. Further processing unit may be integrated in whole or in part with network interface or with one or more other components of the device.

Data storage may then comprise one or more volatile and or non volatile storage components non transitory such as magnetic optical flash or other types of storage now known or later developed and may be integrated in whole or in part with processing unit and or may be removable from the device or externally connected through wired or wireless means with the device . As shown data storage contains operating system logic and application logic executable by the processing unit to carry out various functions described herein.

Operating system logic may manage hardware resources of the device and provide common services such as an application programming interface API for applications. Examples of such operating systems include without limitation ANDROID iOS LINUX MAC OS X WINDOWS and WINDOWS PHONE.

Application logic in turn may include one or more applications such as the milk supply management application described above which may be arranged to run on the operating system and thus interact with hardware of the device through operating system . These applications may be written in any of a variety of programming languages and compiled into instructions executable by processing unit . For instance the applications may be Java or Objective C applications or for that matter other types of applications that when compiled will interwork with the API of the operating system . Alternatively or additionally the applications may be defined by one or more markup documents which can essentially be executed by being interpreted rendered or otherwise processed by processing unit possibly through execution of one or more interpreters such as browser applications.

The advantage of the system described above is evident through the ease and speed with which a mother can collect track and ascertain her milk supply and expression performance by merely capturing an image or video of her output. As an example an application for a computing device such as a smart phone can pull all relevant data from the image and her milk pumping session including a date and time stamp geographic location container used milk amount milk supply and breast expressed to develop her pumping log performance charts reminders etc.

In another embodiment the imaging and software capabilities contained within the computing device could reside within a breastpump such as the programmable breastpump described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 547 756 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Thus while the invention has been described herein with relation to certain embodiments and applications those with skill in this art will recognize changes modifications alterations and the like which still come within the spirit of the inventive concept and such are intended to be included within the scope of the application.

