---

title: Method, apparatus, and computer-readable medium for integrating and sharing patient-related information via an authenticated application programming interface
abstract: An apparatus, computer-readable medium, and computer-implemented method for integrating and sharing patient-related information among members of a medical team in real-time via an authenticated Application Programming Interface (API), includes receiving preliminary patient data corresponding to the patient from a first member of a medical team comprising a plurality of members, the preliminary patient data being received via the authenticated API, generating a patient profile for the patient, the patient profile being accessible to each member of the medical team via the authenticated API, receiving input relating to the patient from a second member of the medical team, the input being received via the authenticated API, and updating the patient profile based at least in part on the received input, with each of the plurality of members of the medical team being able to access the updated patient profile via the authenticated API.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619614&OS=09619614&RS=09619614
owner: 
number: 09619614
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150203
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 935 221 filed Feb. 3 2014 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Patients frequently require treatment by multiple medical professionals working as a team. For example a patient may require treatment or a surgery that requires coordination between a cardiologist multiple surgeons and multiple nurse practitioners. Additionally for many intensive surgeries such as Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement TAVR there are stringent guidelines and requirements that must be met before the operation can be performed.

TAVR is a procedure for select patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis narrowing of the aortic valve opening who are not candidates for traditional open chest surgery or are high risk operable candidates. The Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services CMS require extensive documentation for the patient to qualify for the surgery. Additionally a cardiovascular team is required to perform the implant and must document all patient implants. Furthermore expensive data acquisition post implantation is required to be submitted to the Society of Thoracic Surgeons STS and the American College of Cardiology ACC Trans catheter Valve Therapy TVT registry.

As a result communication and coordination between members of a medical team regarding a particular patient is of paramount importance. Additionally documentation of all information relating to the patient and communications between members of the medical team treating the patient is necessary to comply with requirements.

Current patient tracking systems focus only on patient records which are network based and which store only the medical history for the patient. There is currently no way to track the progress of a patient through a screening and referral process which involves multiple member medical teams. Additionally there is currently no way to document share and communicate information regarding patient treatment in real time among members of a medical team.

While methods apparatuses and computer readable media are described herein by way of examples and embodiments those skilled in the art recognize that methods apparatuses and computer readable media for tracking a patient are not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and description are not intended to be limited to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Any headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used herein the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Applicants have discovered a way of tracking storing communicating and documenting data pertaining to a patient among members of a medical team. The present system allows a medical team to stay updated on the progress of a patient s treatment facilitates data acquisition pertaining to the patient and the patient s treatment enables coordination among members of a multidisciplinary medical team and maximizes billing.

The preliminary patient data can be received via an authenticated Application Programming Interface API . For example the member of the medical team can enter the preliminary patient data into the authenticated API using the input of their mobile device and it can then be passed through the authenticated API to the system. The authenticated API can be a password protected application running on mobile device smart phone or tablet. Alternatively the authenticated API can be an application running on a mobile device which is registered to a member of the medical team such that authentication is implicit. Of course the authenticated API is not limited to mobile applications and can be implemented as for example a website accessible through a browser or a software application running on a computer accessible to the medical team member. For example a medical team member may navigate to a website and enter credentials such as a user id and password in order to access the authenticated API. In situations where security of the data and access is not necessary the API may be implemented without authentication as well.

At step a patient profile is generated for patient. The patient profile can be accessible to each member of the medical team via the authenticated API. Additionally each member of the medical team can have differing privileges with respect to the patient profile. For example some members of the medical team can have the ability to access and view the patient profile but not modify and information or add any information while other members of the medical team can have full reading and writing privileges. Additionally the privileges of each member can differ according to different parts of the patient profile. For example a surgeon team member can have the ability to edit portions of the patient profile relating to surgical recommendations but not portions of the patient profile relating to cardiogram results.

At step input relating to the patient is received from a member of the medical team. The input can be received from either the same team member who provided the preliminary patient data or a different member of the medical team. Additionally the input relating to the patient can be received via the authenticated API such as through an interface on a mobile application. For example a second member of the medical team can enter in the input into the authenticated API on their mobile device.

At step the patient profile is updated based on the received input. This can include updating the profile with one or more results based on the input. This can also include annotating the profile with information corresponding to the input or completing some required information in the profile based on the input. For example the input can be a note by one of the medical team members expressing an opinion or recommendation regarding a particular treatment option and the update can include the note in its entirety or an abbreviated version. The updated patient profile can then be accessed by each of the members of the medical team that have the requisite privileges via the authenticated API.

Turning to a system and process flow diagram is shown with the members of a hypothetical four member medical team. Of course the diagram is for illustration only and the number of members of the medical team can be greater or fewer. Patient can initially visit the first member of the team A. As a result of this visit the first member A can acquire the preliminary patient data. The preliminary patient data can be provided directly by the patient or it can be derived by the first member A based on tests conducted on the patient or measurements taken of the patient. Additionally the preliminary patient data can be provided to the first member A via electronic means such as in an email or electronic record received by the first member A from a physician who previously treated the patient .

The preliminary patient data can include any information pertaining to the patient such as demographic data name ages sex weight height medical record number etc. patient medical history any previous or current test results any previous or current measurements and physician information for any physicians that have previously treated the patient or who referred the patient to the medical team member.

The preliminary patient data is received from the first member A via the authenticated API and can be used to generate the patient profile . Alternatively the patient profile can be created beforehand by an administrator or a different member of the medical team and the preliminary patient data can added to the already existing patient profile .

As shown in the patient profile is accessible to the second team member B the third team member C and the fourth team member D via the authenticated API. This means that any changes or updates to the patient profile from one of the team members is made available to the other members of the medical team in real time. This can be accomplished in multiple ways. For example a common file corresponding to one or more patient profiles can be stored in the hospital network and made accessible only to team members. If the authenticated API is implemented as an application the application can ask for a password and or user id to verify that the user is a team member and has access to the common file. Once confirmed the application can retrieve or access the common file and populate the relevant patient profile information. In this way the authenticated API can be configured to detect and propagate any changes to the patient profile to the team members and their respective devices. Alternatively the patient profile could be stored in an authenticated file sharing network and retrieved manually by team members having the necessary credentials. For example the team member could open the application and see a prompt to load a file corresponding to a patient profile. The team member could then log in to a file sharing service such as Box or Dropbox to retrieve the file.

Any updates or changes to the patient profile by one of the team members on a device of the team member can be propagated automatically via wireless or wired communication to the different devices of the other team members such as by requiring the application to periodically synchronize the current version of the patient profile on the team members devices with the version of the patient profile stored in the common file. Additionally the authenticated API can be configured so that only one member of the medical team can make edits to the patient profile at a time limiting the other members to read only privileges such as by using a check in check out system. Updates or changes made by any one of the team members can be stored locally on a local device such as a tablet or computer if the device does not have internet connectivity. Once connectivity is achieved whether through the internet a cellular phone plan or a local area network these changes can be propagated to the patient profile stored in the common file. Connectivity can also be achieved physically without an internet or wireless connection such as through a USB connection between a computer storing the common file and the team member s device.

Additionally any updates to the patient profile or new information in the patient profile such as information concerning diagnoses or operations can automatically be transmitted to one or more registries such as the TVT registry.

Turning now to an interface of the authenticated API is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. The interface can include multiple windows or tabs . The tabs in include a demographics tab which is currently selected in the figure a patient medical history PMHx tab an inoperable tab which can be used to perform a variety of tests or complete a variety of evaluations pertaining to the patient a pre op tab which allows a team member to enter information necessary for an operation and a procedure tab which can be used to document any procedures performed.

The specific examples shown and discussed in this application pertain to a TAVR patient. For example the inoperable tab is used to perform a variety of tests or complete a variety of evaluations to determine if the patient is inoperable and thus a candidate for TAVR. Of course the system disclosed herein can be customized to a variety of different practices such as cardiac surgery obstetrics orthopedic surgery oncology general surgery etc. For example the authenticated API can be organized differently and or include different tabs and interfaces than those presented in these specific examples. The systems and methods disclosed herein can also be customized to each hospital or practice where they are utilized. Additionally the tabs in the exemplary interfaces presented herein are provided for illustration only and the information and options available to users can be organized differently. For example the interface of the authenticated API could have fewer tabs including no tabs in favor of a simplified or unified interface. Many variations are possible and these examples are not intended to be limiting.

As shown in the interface for the demographics tab can contain all of the patient s demographics including name age sex weight height medical record number etc. A user can also add or delete variables for different patient populations. The interface can also include information regarding any physicians associated with the patient such as a referring physician or a primary care physician PCP . Any of this information can be provided as part of the preliminary patient data or provided afterwards. The selection of a physician associated with the patient can be performed through the user interface such as by using a drop down list or pop up menu as shown in . If a team member using the interface wishes to access contact information for a physician associated with the patient they can request the information through the interface such as by pressing a button which links to the physician profile for the corresponding physician. Additionally the interface can present the results of any tests or screening conducted or any assessments made by any of the medical team members.

Interface includes a take photo button which can be used to capture an image of the patient using a portable device of the user. For example when the interface is shown on a portable device such as a tablet mobile phone or laptop of the user the user can select the take photo button and use the camera integrated with the portable device to take a photo. Additionally the authenticated API of the present application can include functionality for capturing photos of documents such as medical history forms test results and other patient information which can then be converted and or stored as documents in association with a digital medical file or data record of the patient.

Turning to another interface of the authenticated API is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. This interface corresponds to a first sub tab A of the PMHx tab and includes the patient cardiac history. In the interface for the second sub tab B is shown and includes the pre procedure status of the patient. In the case of TAVR the past medical history can include any history of diabetes peripheral vascular disease Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD myocardial infarcts and coronary artery disease. illustrates another interface of the authenticated API which can also correspond to the PMHx tab. As shown in the interface of all of the relevant patient medical history can be consolidated under a single tab rather than two tabs as shown in .

At step a request to view contact information for the physician associated with the patient is received via the authenticated API. This request can be received using a variety of means such as an interface button as shown in through a drop down list or other interface element or through an automated message such as an e mail sent through the authenticated API.

At step the contact information for the requested physician is retrieved from the physician profile and at step the contact information is transmitted via the authenticated API. For example illustrates an interface of the authenticated API showing the contact information for a patient s referring physician and illustrates an interface of the authenticated API showing the contact information for a patient s primary care provider. Of course the contact information can be delivered in other ways. For example the contact information can be sent via email or SMS to an account or device associated with the requesting medical team member.

Turning to another interface of the authenticated API is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. The interface shows a pop up window that appears when the user selects one of the adjustable options on the interface . In this example the user has selected the type of visit option and all of the selectable possibilities for the option are displayed in the pop up window. The options for pop up windows or other user interface elements can be customized by the user. Additionally the patient profile can also be annotated with an indicator designating a member of the medical team who provided input relating to the patient along with any changes to the patient profile resulting from the received input. For example numeral shows a surgical opinion provided by Dr. Roberto Rodriguez and the date corresponding to the surgical opinion. This annotation can be performed automatically in response to any changes or updates to the patient profile.

At step a request to view the information in the external file is received via the authenticated API. This request can be received using a variety of means such as an interface button through a drop down list or other interface element or through an automated message such as an e mail sent through the authenticated API. At step the external file is retrieved and at step the requested information in the external files is transmitted via the authenticated API.

For example illustrates an interface of the authenticated API where the medical team has performed a Trans Apical TAVR procedure . Interface can include all the details pertaining to the procedure performed. It can include the name of the main operators selected from a popup menu which is fully customizable. It can contain the type of procedure performed selected from an editable popup menu and the date the procedure was performed. Interface can include the type of devices implanted utilized in the procedure selected from an editable popup menu. Interface can also contain a link to the follow up data referring physician procedure letters and the billing data. Additionally if a user desires to examine follow up echocardiograms they can select button to display them through the authenticated API as shown in

Interfaces and of respectively show different possible interfaces corresponding to the follow up echocardiogram information along with the relevant annotations and such as the date they were performed and the name of the Echocardiographer. Interfaces and also allow the user to enter new information if desired. The user can then return to the patient profile by pressing a button such as the cancel button on the interfaces and .

Using the present system a medical team member can enter a variety of information relating to the patient which will be reflected in the patent profile accessible to all the medical team members assuming they all have permissions to access the relevant information .

The patient evaluation forms can include a frailty test a Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire KCCQ a Society of Thoracic Surgeons STS risk evaluation a European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation ESCORE or any other relevant patient evaluation form or test.

In addition to risk evaluation the inoperable tab can be used to record other reasons why a particular patient is non operable or high risk. Identification of alternate reasons for patient eligibility can be documented using pop up menus in the interface. For TAVR these include hostile chest dementia porcelain aorta eyeball test pulmonary disease and frailty.

At step a letter template corresponding to the requested letter is retrieved. illustrates an example letter template . The letter template can include one or more blank data fields as shown. Of course a variety of letter templates can be stored and retrieved based on the type of letter selected. Additionally users can generate and save their own letter templates. At step the letter template is filled using information retrieved from the patient profile. For example the demographic information for the patient can be accessed to retrieve the patient name and the referring physician and the procedure information can be accessed to retrieve the relevant procedure which the letter pertains to. By matching the blank data fields to the corresponding values in the patient profile the letter can be automatically generated. This saves time and energy for members of the medical team. This letter can then be emailed faxed or printed.

In addition to template letters other types of documents can be generated by a user based on the patient profile. For example the interface of the API can include buttons to generate procedure notes consult evaluations and update documentation that can be printed or delivered via mail email or fax.

At step one or more billing codes corresponding to one or more diagnoses and or comorbidities associated with the patient profile are retrieved. For example if the patient has hypertension chronic renal insufficiency and congestive heart failure the codes for each of these comorbidities can be retrieved. More specifically the one or more diagnoses associated with the patient profile can be extracted from the patient profile and then cross referenced with an index of billing codes organized by diagnosis to retrieve or generate the relevant billing codes similar to the procedure billing codes.

Of course either step or step can be omitted. Alternatively steps and can be combined and all of the relevant billing codes can be retrieved in one step. At step a billing report including the billing codes is generated. This billing report can be exported to a different application printed out or transmitted over email or fax to the patient to an insurance company or to an institution s billing department.

Turning to another interface of the authenticated API is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Interface corresponds to the Pre Op tab and allows medical team members to enter information and data values that will be required prior to an operation on the patient. This includes all critical measurements imaging laboratory values preoperative clearance preoperative requirements etc. For the TAVR patients it will contain findings for catheterization echocardiogram critical measurements on CT scans and laboratory values pulmonary function test results etc. The Pre Op interface can also include indicators corresponding to requirements that must be fulfilled before the operation can be performed. This can include documentation requirements and opinion requirements such as a requirement that two surgeons must express concurring opinions regarding a specific issue relating to the patient. Of course the Pre Op interface can take many other forms than the one shown in . For example illustrates another interface of the authenticated API which can correspond to the Pre Op tab. As shown in the interface can include much of the same information as that shown in interface as well additional options such as a text entry box for other Pre Op findings and notes.

The data created stored and exchanged by users of the patient tracking system disclosed herein can be formatted to be compliant with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPPA . Additionally some or all of the data can be encrypted for additional protection.

One or more of the above described techniques can be implemented in or involve one or more computer systems. illustrates a generalized example of a computing environment . The computing environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to scope of use or functionality of a described embodiment.

With reference to the computing environment includes at least one processing unit and memory . The processing unit executes computer executable instructions and may be a real or a virtual processor. In a multi processing system multiple processing units execute computer executable instructions to increase processing power. The memory may be volatile memory e.g. registers cache RAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM EEPROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. The memory may store software instructions for implementing the described techniques when executed by one or more processors. Memory can be one memory device or multiple memory devices.

A computing environment may have additional features. For example the computing environment includes storage one or more input devices one or more output devices and one or more communication connections . An interconnection mechanism such as a bus controller or network interconnects the components of the computing environment . Typically operating system software or firmware not shown provides an operating environment for other software executing in the computing environment and coordinates activities of the components of the computing environment .

The storage may be removable or non removable and includes magnetic disks magnetic tapes or cassettes CD ROMs CD RWs DVDs or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed within the computing environment . The storage may store instructions for the software .

The input device s may be a touch input device such as a keyboard mouse pen trackball touch screen or game controller a voice input device a scanning device a digital camera remote control or another device that provides input to the computing environment . The output device s may be a display television monitor printer speaker or another device that provides output from the computing environment .

The communication connection s enable communication over a communication medium to another computing entity. The communication medium conveys information such as computer executable instructions audio or video information or other data in a modulated data signal. A modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired or wireless techniques implemented with an electrical optical RF infrared acoustic or other carrier.

Implementations can be described in the general context of non transitory computer readable media. Computer readable media are any available media that can be accessed within a computing environment. By way of example and not limitation within the computing environment computer readable media include memory storage communication media and combinations of any of the above.

Of course illustrates computing environment display device and input device as separate devices for ease of identification only. Computing environment display device and input device may be separate devices e.g. a personal computer connected by wires to a monitor and mouse may be integrated in a single device e.g. a mobile device with a touch display such as a smartphone or a tablet or any combination of devices e.g. a computing device operatively coupled to a touch screen display device a plurality of computing devices attached to a single display device and input device etc. . Computing environment may be a set top box mobile device personal computer or one or more servers for example a farm of networked servers a clustered server environment or a cloud network of computing devices. Mobile devices can include for example mobile phones tablets laptops PDAs and or electronic organizers.

Having described and illustrated the principles of our invention with reference to the described embodiment it will be recognized that the described embodiment can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. It should be understood that the programs processes or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computing environment unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computing environments may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. Elements of the described embodiment shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of our invention may be applied we claim as our invention all such embodiments as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto.

