---

title: Multi-interface adaptive bit rate session management
abstract: Systems and method are provided that allow an application layer client in a mobile device to manage multiple interfaces in a communication network. The multiple interfaces can include WiFi, cellular, Femto, WiMAX, Bluetooth, infrared, Ethernet, and other types of interfaces for communication in a network. The client on the mobile device can use intelligence and rules to determine how and when request fragments are communicated over the various interfaces available to the client. The intelligence can include parameters such as performance information for a particular interface and subscriber preferences. Based on this information the client can decide to use a combination of the interfaces to obtain multimedia content and render the content for display on the mobile device. By using a combination of interfaces and tracking the advantages and disadvantages of each interface, the client can make intelligent decisions in providing multimedia content to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338212&OS=09338212&RS=09338212
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09338212
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150410
---
This Application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 408 476 filed Feb. 29 2012 entitled MULTI INTERFACE ADAPTIVE BIT RATE SESSION MANAGEMENT Inventors Richard C. Hayes et al. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and is incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application.

This disclosure relates generally to managing media protocol requests and media delivery across multiple network interfaces and the corresponding communication networks.

Wireless networks are telecommunication networks that use radio waves to carry information from one node in the network to one or more receiving nodes in the network. Cellular telephony is characterized by the use of radio cells that provide radio coverage for a geographic area with multiple cells arranged to provide contiguous radio coverage over a larger area. Wired communication can also be used in portions of a wireless network such as between cells or access points. Wireless communication technologies are used in connection with many user equipment including for example satellite communications systems portable digital assistants PDAs laptop computers and mobile devices e.g. cellular telephones . Such devices can connect to a network e.g. the Internet as long as the user is within range of such a wireless communication technology.

Mobile subscribers increasingly use applications to experience media such as watching video and listening to audio. These applications use media protocols to stream media from media servers to clients such as programs running on personal computers or mobile devices. Example media protocols include adaptive bit rate ABR real time streaming protocol RTSP and real time transport protocol RTP . These protocols are designed to work efficiently over large and distributed networks such as the Internet. The demand for media over wireless networks is not expected to slow especially as mobile devices become more sophisticated and as users become more dependent on mobile devices.

Certain embodiments disclose a method including receiving a request for media content at an adaptive bitrate ABR client fragmenting the request for media content into a plurality of ABR fragment requests for the media content managing a plurality of interfaces for communicating the plurality of ABR fragment requests at the ABR client determining at the ABR client which interface to send specific ABR requests over using parameters available to the ABR client including performance information for the plurality of interfaces and subscriber preference information and sending the plurality of ABR fragment requests for the media content across both a first interface and a second interface of the plurality of interfaces.

This disclosure generally relates to requesting media content over a variety of interfaces and requesting media content from more than one interface at a time. Multimedia data is responsible for a growing percentage of data traffic over communication networks. Multimedia tends to consume large amounts of data and threatens to consume even greater percentages of bandwidth as screen resolution increases on mobile devices and wireless networks become more capable. As the consumer use model and corresponding video consumption evolves into an increasingly mobile experience the mobile devices and media protocol clients can be enhanced to permit use of multiple interfaces to obtain content from multiple technologies or even parallel networks. This can provide more robust performance and a better user experience while also aiding in the management of traditional wireless carrier networks helping those carriers from a monetization perspective.

Internet applications and services rely on a set of specific media protocols to communicate video and audio multimedia over a network. As one example of communications using media protocols a user may visit a web site offering video content using a mobile device. When the user chooses a video to view a program running on the mobile device contacts a video server on the Internet to request video content using the media protocol. The video server sends the requested video content to the mobile device using media protocols. How the video content is requested delivered and displayed depends on the specifics of the media protocol employed. A client running on the mobile device can specify the media protocol used in retrieving the video content.

Adaptive bit rate ABR is one example of a media aware technique for delivering video utilizing common web protocols. ABR streaming switches dynamically among media files of differing bit rates or overall quality and size to allow for a smooth viewing or listening experience for the user. Adaptive bit rate technologies for video are typically dependent on a client program running on the user device capable of monitoring video performance building dynamic empirical results from this monitoring and requesting specific media fragments from a stateless video server based on these results. ABR utilizes HTTP protocol a stateless connection and independent temporally segmented media fragments. This allows the client to acquire segments independently nonlinearly and on demand. These characteristics provide certain performance enhancements such as rapid start up playback. The design of ABR is to provide high quality of experience playback to users by automatically adapting to dynamic and changing conditions of the network and or mobile device. Generally ABR is designed to select the highest bit rate for media to improve the quality of the media streamed to the client. However the higher the bit rate or quality of the media streamed over the network the higher the amount of network resources used e.g. bandwidth and associated costs.

Network operators can address the rapid increase in network resource usage and media traffic by increasing network capacity. One way to increase the network capacity is by deploying parallel communication networks using dissimilar radio technology. For example a network operator can deploy both a cellular communication network and a wireless local area network WLAN in a single region so that a portion of the data traffic is serviced through a cellular communication network and the rest of the data traffic is serviced through a WLAN. In some cases a network operator can leverage a WLAN that is operated by a third party. If a WLAN is already deployed in a certain area the network operator can offload data traffic from the cellular network to the WLAN. In another example a network operator can deploy two parallel cellular networks but using two different technologies. For instance the network operator may deploy a Long Term Evolution LTE based cellular network that provides islands of hot spot coverage within a wide area Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 based cellular network.

A client may connect to parallel communication networks using multiple network interfaces. For example a client may access the Internet concurrently using a cellular network interface a wired Ethernet network interface and a Wi Fi wireless network interface. Or a client may access multiple networks using a single network interface. For example a client may use a Wi Fi wireless network interface to access parallel wireless network using a Wi Fi SSID service set identifiers . The same wireless network interface can include one or more logical adaptors where each logical adaptor corresponds to a specific SSID. In some embodiments the client uses multiple logical adaptors at the same time to communicate over parallel wireless networks.

ABR clients exist in the application layer and do not have visibility into network interfaces and are defined to use a single interface. Generally interfaces are managed on the transport or network layers of the OSI model. ABR clients generally request media fragments sequentially using the single network interface. ABR clients generally request the next media fragment utilizing a buffer as the ABR client approaches the end of the currently playing fragment to provide a seamless experience to the user. However ABR servers are stateless implying that an ABR client may request a media fragment representing any valid time in a media stream and encoded at any available bit rate. When multiple active network interfaces are available to an ABR client the design of ABR clients does not utilize these multiple network interfaces. An enhanced ABR client can manage ABR sessions using multiple network interfaces. In particular the disclosed systems and methods use network load information such as availability performance association and cost so that ABR clients can request and receive media fragments more efficiently resulting in an improved media experience for the user and or more effective use of resources. The ABR client can make the application layer decisions in managing more than one interface.

This enhanced multi interface ABR client can enable a seamless viewing experience for user equipment by employing the ability to gather data for a common rendering from multiple network paths. The enhanced ABR client enables a service provider to perform network analytics on a subscriber accessing ABR videos over a WiFi network even though the service provider does not carry the entire fragment sequence because multiple interfaces are used. This ABR client also provides a more optimized mechanism to deliver ABR content to a device with multiple interfaces available. The ABR client also provides to the end user a more robust way to control usage fees on macro cellular networks employing usage fee pricing models.

The access network can communicate with an access gateway that implements a combination of functionalities such as a packet data serving node PDSN a HRPD serving gateway HSGW and a serving gateway SGW . In operation the PDSN functionality can be used with 1 RTT the HSGW functionality can be used with HRPD and eHRPD and the SGW functionality can be used with the eNodeB . The access gateway can communicate with an anchor gateway such as a packet data network gateway PGW and a mobility management entity MME . On the access network side the anchor gateway can also communicate with an evolved packet data gateway ePDG that provides connectivity to the WLAN Femto other transceiver . On the packet core side the anchor gateway can communicate with the operator s IP service domain the Internet and IP multimedia subsystem IMS . An authentication authorization and accounting AAA server home subscriber server HSS can communicate with the access gateway the anchor gateway or both.

The Home Subscriber Server HSS can be a master user database that supports IMS network entities that handle calls. The HSS stores subscription related information subscriber profiles performs authentication and authorization of the user and can provide information about the subscriber s location and IP information. The HSS also maintains binding information on which gateway is currently serving a UE. Even when the UE is detached from the network the HSS maintains the binding information until the UE re attaches itself and updates the binding information. The AAA server can provide authentication access control and accounting to the network. The authentication can involve verification of the subscriber the access control can involve granting or denying access to specific services and the accounting that can take place is the tracking of the use of network resources by subscribers. Other servers such as the Home Location Register HLR can be used in other embodiments. In certain embodiments the AAA HSS PCRF can communicate with the access gateway for charging purposes.

The LTE communication network includes a PDN gateway PGW a serving gateway SGW an E UTRAN evolved UMTS terrestrial radio access network and a mobility management entity MME . The evolved packet core EPC of an LTE communication network includes the MME SGW and PGW components. In some embodiments one or more EPC components can be implemented on the same gateway or network device as described below.

The SGW sits in the user plane where it forwards and routes packets to and from the eNodeB and PGW. The SGW also serves as the local mobility anchor for inter eNodeB handover and mobility between 3GPP networks. The SGW routes and forwards user data packets while also acting as the mobility anchor for the user plane during inter eNB handovers and as the anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies terminating S4 interface and relaying the traffic between 2G 3G systems and PGW . For idle state UEs the SGW terminates the down link data path and triggers paging when down link data arrives for the UE. The SGW manages and stores UE contexts e.g. parameters of the IP bearer service and network internal routing information. The SGW also performs replication of the user traffic in case of lawful interception.

The PGW acts as the interface between the LTE network and other packet data networks such as the Internet or SIP based IMS networks fixed and mobile . The PGW serves as the anchor point for intra 3GPP network mobility as well as mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP networks. The PGW acts as the Policy and Charging Enforcement Function PCEF which manages Quality of Service QoS online offline flow based charging data generation deep packet inspection and lawful intercept. The PGW provides connectivity to the UE to external packet data networks by being the point of exit and entry of traffic for the UE. A UE may have simultaneous connectivity with more than one PGW for accessing multiple packet data networks. The PGW performs policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful interception and packet screening. The PGW also provides an anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies such as WiMAX and 3GPP2 standards CDMA 1 and EVDO .

The MME resides in the EPC control plane and manages session states authentication paging mobility with 3GPP 2G 3G nodes roaming and other bearer management functions. The MME can be a standalone element or integrated with other EPC elements including the SGW PGW and Release 8 Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN . The MME can also be integrated with 2G 3G elements such as the SGSN and GGSN. This integration is the key to mobility and session management interworking between 2G 3G and 4G mobile networks.

MME is a control node for the LTE access network. The MME is responsible for UE tracking and paging procedures including retransmissions. MME handles the bearer activation deactivation process and is also responsible for choosing the SGW for a UE at the initial attach and at time of an intra LTE handover. The MME also authenticates the user by interacting with the HSS . The MME also generates and allocates temporary identities to UEs and terminates Non access stratum NAS signaling. The MME checks the authorization of the UE to camp on the service provider s Public Land Mobile Network PLMN and enforces UE roaming restrictions. The MME is the termination point in the network for ciphering integrity protection for NAS signaling and handles the security key management. Lawful interception of signaling is also supported by the MME. The MME also provides the control plane function for mobility between LTE and 2G 3G access networks with the S3 interface terminating at the MME from the SGSN not shown . The MME also terminates the S6a interface towards the home HSS for roaming UEs.

The ePDG is responsible for interworking between the EPC and fixed untrusted non 3GPP access technologies such as a WLAN WiMAX LTE metro and femtocell access networks. The ePDG can use IPSec IKEv2 to provide secure access to the EPC network. Optionally the ePDG can use Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIPv6 to interact with the PGW when the mobile subscriber is roaming in an untrusted non 3GPP system. The ePDG is involved in tunnel authentication and authorization transport level packet marking in the uplink policy enforcement of Quality of Service QoS based on information received via Authorization Authentication Accounting AAA infrastructure lawful interception and other functions.

The BSLF can be a part of cellular network s mobility unit for example an MME . A cellular network is a radio network with multiple transceivers where each transceiver provides communication to a localized service area called a cell. The cellular network can include LTE networks HSPA networks and UMTS networks for example. The size of a cell can vary depending on the transceiver. A macro cell transceiver is typically used by service providers to provide coverage over about a five kilometer distance.

The ANDSF is typically deployed as a stand alone network device that is accessible by UE . The ANDSF can be co located with the LBCIF . In the case of a trusted WLAN the WLC is located in the WLAN access network. If the trusted WLAN is operated by the cellular network operator the WLC can also be located in an MME . The WLC and the LBCIF can communicate using a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or a Representational State Transfer REST protocol. Likewise the BSLF and the LBCIF can communicate using the SOAP or the REST protocol and the LBCIF and the ANDSF can communicate using the SOAP or the REST protocol.

The WLAN controller can include a wireless LAN controller WLC . A WLC can perform traditional roles of access points such as association or authentication of wireless clients. APs A C also called access points can register themselves with the WLC and tunnel management and data packets to the WLC which then switches the packets between the user equipment and the wired portion of the network. WLC can be in charge of the configuring the WLAN. WLC can provide configuration information to the APs A C so that the APs A C can act as a wireless interface to the UEs .

The APs A C can be equipped with antennas that are configured to transmit and receive data. For example the APs A C may transmit video or audio traffic and receive acknowledgements. In one embodiment the APs A C can communicate in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standard including for example IEEE 802.11n and 802.11k. The APs A C may transfer video or other forms of high data rate traffic such as audio or any other type of data traffic.

An ANDSF is configured to assist UEs to discover non 3GPP networks such as WLAN WiMax Femto or other spectrum access. To this end the ANDSF can be configured to provide to a UE policy information regarding routing mobility and discovery. The policy information can include an inter system mobility policy which indicates network selection rules in case only one network is available e.g. cellular or WLAN an inter system routing policy which indicates network selection rules in case more than one network is available e.g. both cellular and WLAN and discovery information that lists the networks that may be available to the UE and any candidate information about the networks. The ABR client or UEs can register with the ANDSF to receive service from the ANDSF .

In certain embodiments an AP can broadcast its data load condition to UEs or all the UEs in the AP s service area for use by the ABR client on the UE using a Quality of Service Basic Service Set QBSS load element. The QBSS load element is a part of beacon frames generated by APs and contains the data load information associated with the APs. The QBSS load element can include three parameters station count channel utilization and available admission capacity. The station count can indicate the total number of UEs currently associated with an access point. The channel utilization rate can indicate the normalized value of the total channel utilization which gives the percentage of the time the channel is sensed to be busy using either the physical or virtual carrier sense mechanism of the access point. The available admission capacity can indicate the amount of time that can be used by explicit admission control. A user equipment can use the QBSS load element parameters to decide to which of the available access points to attach and which interface to send ABR Media Requests over.

The communication system in has a cellular network and a WLAN operating in parallel. Each network can have a plurality of service areas. A service area is often served by a wireless interface such as a base station or an AP . For example a cellular network can include multiple service areas each service area served by a base station a WLAN can include multiple service areas each service area served by an AP . In certain embodiments service areas in different networks can overlap. For example in the base station s service area overlaps with the APs service areas A C. If a UE A is in an area covered by both WLAN and a cellular network then the ABR client on UE A can attach to one of the overlapping networks for network services.

In certain embodiments the networks such as the cellular network and the WLAN are configured to collect their own network condition information. The network condition information can include information on the network configuration and the network usage. For example the network condition information can include the data load information which indicates the amount of data being handled by one or more of service areas in a network and or the amount of additional data traffic that could be handled by one or more of service areas in a network. The network condition information can also include the geo location of wireless interfaces in a network and a list of UEs currently served by one or more service areas in a network and if available the geographic position of the UEs. In certain embodiments the network condition information associated with a cellular network can be collected by a BSLF in a MME . In certain embodiments the network condition information associated with a WLAN can be collected by the WLC in the WLAN control system .

The cellular network and the WLAN can share the collected network condition information with a central node . The central node in turn can retrieve the data load information from the received network condition information and deliver the retrieved data load information to UEs . There can be at least two ways to deliver the data load information to UEs 1 via a WLC using an enhanced 802.11k signaling or 2 via an ANDSF using an IP signaling. For example in the first option the central node can deliver the data load information to the WLC . In turn the WLC can deliver the data load information to the AP . The AP can subsequently broadcast the data load information to the UEs in the AP s service area. In certain embodiments the AP can broadcast the information as an enhanced Quality of Service Basic Service Set e QBSS load element. In the second option the central node can deliver the relevant data load information to the ANDSF and the ANDSF can relay the data load information to the UE . These options allow the ABR client on UE to receive the network data load information from at least the cellular network and the WLAN without disconnecting from the currently attached network.

In certain embodiments the central node can deliver only relevant portion of the data load information to UEs for use by ABR client. For the ABR client on UE the relevant data load information can include the data load information of wireless interfaces that are capable of serving the UE . To determine which wireless interfaces can serve the UE also called candidate wireless interfaces the central node can analyze the location of wireless interfaces. For example if a UE A is attached to an AP A the central node can identify the serving AP A as one of the candidate wireless interfaces. To find additional wireless interfaces that can also serve the UE the central node can use the location information of the serving AP A and the location information of other wireless interfaces. For example if a particular wireless interface is physically proximate to the serving AP A so that the service are of a particular wireless interface includes that of the serving AP A the central node can identify the particular wireless interface as one of the candidate wireless interfaces. In some embodiments if the service coverage of the particular wireless interface overlaps with that of the serving wireless interface the central node can identify that the particular wireless interface as one of the candidate wireless interfaces. The ABR client on UE can also use other means to determine available network interfaces. For example UE can scan available network interfaces and pass this information on to the ABR client. If the UE ranges into a Femto network or becomes connected to an Ethernet network for example these interfaces can be made available to the application layer ABR client to manage an ABR stream.

The client on UE can use data load information to determine to which interfaces to attach. The data load information can be received from any applicable source. It can be received from the central node gateways servers radio access networks mobility management entities policy servers or any other network device that includes data load information. The client on UE can use the data load information to determine whether include additional interfaces on the client. For example when downloading from the cellular network the UE can range into an access point that is less loaded. The UE can add an interface to the access point in conjunction to the existing cellular network interface. The ABR client on UE can then request and receive media protocol fragments from multiple interfaces.

The ABR client on UE can also develop its own statistics on the speed and reliability of the different interfaces independent of the load information. This interface performance information collected on the client can be used in determining how to source requests from the client. This development of statistics on the different interfaces can be implemented in one or more modules on the UE. The modules can turn the ABR client into a stateful function by collecting intelligence received externally and or internally developed intelligence regarding interfaces. This intelligence can be used to select an interface out of one or more available interfaces on a per request basis. The intelligence can cache or store parameters regarding each interface available to the ABR client. These parameters can include latency bandwidth cost of data transmission error rates availability of interface requested data rates measured data rates typical loading of network and time based usage characteristics. The time based usage characteristics include time index statistics such as latency error rates and data rates corresponding to particular times of day.

The intelligence can use a combination of aggregated historical performance and reliability characteristics of an interface along with current information regarding the interface to make connections. For example the ABR can make a first interface selection and data rate based on prior performance and reliability characteristics of an interface. The fragment request and interface selection logic can then source fragment requests based on current performance and reliability information. In some embodiments the intelligence module can use weighting factors to determine what interface to use on per fragment request basis. The weighting factors can include cost of the interface prior performance and reliability current performance and reliability and external load information. The selection algorithm can also provide stateful knowledge to the selection of data rates at the ABR client. This can be useful to start at a bit rate expected to work for an interface or to limit cost on an expensive interface.

The selection algorithm provides the ability to enhance performance by using the varying characteristics across multiple interfaces. For example the ABR client can use the fastest and most reliable interface to request the next fragment when there is little time to retrieve a fragment and use a slower and less reliable interface to retrieve a fragment that is not yet needed. The ABR client can also reduce the cost of downloading video content on a tariffed interface by requesting a percentage of fragments from a slower and less reliable interface. If the UE has access to a heavily loaded WiFi connection and a cellular connection the user can be afforded a higher quality experience at a better cost by utilizing both interfaces. In certain embodiments the ABR client on UE can also analyze additional information to decide to which interface to connect. For example the client on UE can use one or more of the following the load condition associated with the wireless interfaces the wireless signal strengths associated with the wireless interfaces the prior mobility of the UE the prior speed and reliability of existing interfaces and a configuration status on the UE indicating whether the UE favors the cellular network or the WLAN.

In certain embodiments the central node can periodically deliver the data load information to UEs for use in the ABR clients. This way ABR clients can effectively manage multiple interface connections from the application layer in substantially real time. In other embodiments the central node can deliver the data load information in response to certain triggering events. For example a central node can analyze the received network condition information to determine if any of the service areas in the parallel networks are congested or heavily utilized. If one of the service areas is congested or heavily utilized the central node can identify the UEs currently served by the congested service area and the wireless interfaces that can also serve the congested service area. Subsequently the central node can send to the identified UEs the data load information associated with the identified wireless interfaces. This way the identified ABR clients on the UEs can attempt to add additional interfaces to improve the streaming delivery to the ABR client on UE .

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence uses the network load information to determine a network interface over which to send the media fragment request. As described above the Fragment Request Intelligence can receive network load information from the network e.g. the central node and the user equipment can maintain interface performance information. The Fragment Request Intelligence uses the network load information that network interface NI is active to send a request for media fragment MF over network interface NI. In step the network interface NI creates a session and sends the request for media fragment MF to the media server .

In step the network interface NI receives the requested media fragment MF from the media server . In step the Fragment Request Intelligence receives the requested media fragment MF from the network interface NI . In step the ABR client receives the requested media fragment MF from the Fragment Request Intelligence . In step the ABR client plays the requested media fragment MF.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence determines a third media fragment MF to request. The Fragment Request Intelligence calculates the current play out timeline of the second media fragment MF and determines the media fragment here MF next in time after the current play out timeline. As described above the Fragment Request Intelligence determines the media fragment MF according to the current play out timeline of the current media fragment MF. The Fragment Request Intelligence requests media fragments correlating to the current play out timeline to sustain contiguous rendering and playback of the requested media. For example the Fragment Request Intelligence may use the second network interface NI to request media fragments corresponding to the next media fragments due to play in sequence. As shown in the Fragment Request Intelligence may manage both sessions using the ABR protocol to provide a common rendering of the requested media. Alternatively the Fragment Request Intelligence may terminate the first session and continue playback using data received from the second session. In further embodiments the Fragment Request Intelligence establishes additional sessions using a plurality of additional network interfaces. For example the ABR client may have a newly active connection using a third network interface such as an Ethernet wired connection.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence establishes a first session to receive data and requests media fragment MF over the first network interface . In step the first network interface NI requests the media fragment MF from the media server . In step the first network interface NI receives the requested media fragment MF from the media server . In step the Fragment Request Intelligence receives the requested media fragment MF from the first network interface NI . In step the ABR client receives the requested media fragment MF and in step the ABR client plays the media fragment MF.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence creates a second session and requests the next media fragment MF using the newly active network interface NI . In step the second network interface NI requests the media fragment from the media server . In step the second network interface NI receives the media fragment MF from the media server . In step the Fragment Request Intelligence receives the media fragment MF from the second network interface NI . In step the ABR client receives the media fragment MF from the Fragment Request Intelligence and in step the ABR client plays the media fragment MF.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence determines another media fragment MF to request. The Fragment Request Intelligence requests an unrelated subset of fragments associated with the same media service as the media fragment MF. These associated media fragment requests allow the network operator to carry out performance analysis such as Deep Packet Inspection on a similar fragment request. The network operator may use the performance analysis to gather metrics to compare session performance over differing networks.

Steps of are substantially similar to steps of and reference is made to for those steps. In step the second network interface NI requests the media fragment MF over the communications network . In step the media server receives the request for media fragment MF over the communications network . In step the media server sends the media fragment MF over the communications network . In step the second network interface NI receives the media fragment MF. As described above the network operator is able to carry out performance analysis on the communications network by comparing the two media fragment requests.

Steps of are substantially similar to steps of and reference is made to for those steps. In step the ABR client receives media fragment MF from the Fragment Request Intelligence . Because the media fragment MF is part of an unrelated subset of fragments relating to the same media service the ABR client buffers the media fragment MF for playback. As described with reference to if the media fragment MF had been the next media fragment in sequence according to the current play out timeline of the requested media fragment MF the ABR client could play the media fragment MF directly.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence determines another media fragment MF to request. The Fragment Request Intelligence determines an unrelated subset of fragments associated with the same media service as the media fragment MF. The ABR client can receive the arbitrary media fragments slowly but simultaneously to media fragments that are next to be requested over the faster network interface.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence requests the media fragment MF over the faster network interface . The Fragment Request Intelligence is able to request further important media fragments such as media fragments that are next to be played according to the current play out timeline in the ABR client using the faster network interface . The Fragment Request Intelligence requests arbitrary media fragments that are not next allowing the arbitrary media fragments to trickle to the ABR client using the slower network interface . Steps of are substantially similar to steps of and reference is made to for those steps. Steps of are substantially similar to steps of . Step of is substantially similar to step of and reference is made to for those steps.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence requests a media fragment MF over the faster network interface . In step the faster network interface requests the media fragment MF from the media server . In step the media fragment MF is lost. The media fragment may be lost due to network conditions or if the media server is unable to process the media fragment request in enough time. In step the Fragment Request Intelligence times out waiting for the media fragment MF.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence requests the media fragment MF over the slower network interface . Re requesting the media fragment MF over the slower network interface allows packet retransmission to happen out of band relative to the faster network interface . Accordingly the Fragment Request Intelligence can preserve the bandwidth and performance of the faster network interface to allow the faster network interface to transport new media fragments. Steps of are substantially similar to steps of and reference is made to for those steps.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence determines an additional set of media fragments MFs to request in addition to the requested media fragment MF. In particular the Fragment Request Intelligence may request a larger number of media fragments over the network interface with lower usage fees to avoid higher usage fees potentially associated with the faster network such as usage fees with many high speed macro cellular networks. The Fragment Request Intelligence can add the requested media fragment MF to a first set of media fragments MFs to create a complete requested set of media fragments MFc .

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence requests the complete set of media fragments MFc using the lower usage fee network interface . Steps of are substantially similar to steps of . In step the ABR client plays the requested media fragment MF from the complete requested set of media fragments MFc. The ABR client also buffers the other media fragments from the complete requested set of media fragments MFc for playback. Because the Fragment Request Intelligence sent this media fragment request using the lower usage fee network interface the fees charged to the subscriber are reduced compared to if the Fragment Request Intelligence had simply sent the media fragment request over the fastest available network interface.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence determines a second set of media fragments MFs to request. In particular the Fragment Request Intelligence may determine the set of media fragments MFs to request over the higher usage fee network interface by requesting media fragments sufficient to allow seamless continuity for the ABR client to play back the media stream.

In step the Fragment Request Intelligence requests the second set of media fragments MFs over the higher usage fee network interface . In step the higher usage fee network interface requests the second set of media fragments MFs from the media server . In step the higher usage fee network interface receives the second set of media fragments from the media server . In step the Fragment Request Intelligence receives the second set of media fragments MFs from the higher usage fee network interface . In step the ABR client receives the additional set of media fragments MFs and in step the ABR client buffers the media fragments in the second set of media fragments MFs for playback.

The transceiver includes a transmitter and a receiver. The transmitter and the receiver can be integrated into a single chip or can be embodied in separate chips. The transceiver can also include an interface that provides an input and or output mechanism to communicate with other network devices. The interface can measure the wireless signal strengths of wireless interfaces such as base stations and access points. The interface can be implemented in hardware to send and receive signals in a variety of mediums such as optical copper and wireless and in a number of different protocols some of which may be non transient.

The modem is configured to implement modulation and framing of signals according to one or more communication standards. The communication standards include WLAN related standards such as 802.11 and its addenda and the cellular standards defined under 3GPP.

The ABR client is configured to process media fragments in accordance with media protocols as described above. The ABR client can include intelligence that determines how and when to use the various interfaces that are exposed to the application layer ABR client. The client leverages the stateless operation of the media fragment requests to aggregate data from multiple interfaces to provide a unified video rendering experience on the user equipment. The fragments may or may not be derived from the same unique http session. The client also has the capability to simulate requests over multiple interfaces for the purpose of evaluating performance and establishing secondary sessions for delivery of associated fragments. The ABR client includes intelligence to gather parameters regarding the performance of each interface using various metrics such as latency bandwidth error rate and availability as well as other parameters regarding subscriber preferences such use of different interface options quality of service bandwidth caps on certain interfaces and acceptable error rates.

The ABR client can use rules that determine how and when to use the different interfaces. The rules provide various embodiments of operation that can be used together or separately and are described in conjunction with . The rules at the client for example can prioritize offloading to a WiFi network when the WiFi network is available and meets certain performance parameters. The rules in the ABR client can be multi tiered to provide the experience desired by the subscriber. For example WiFi can be preferred for cost reasons but not if the WiFi connection is poor performance. The rules can also provide blended solutions offloading a portion to WiFi and only using LTE to obtain dropped requests or to supplement the data rate. A blended multi interface rendering can use WiFi for 70 percent of the requests and delivery while using a cellular connection for 30 percent of the requests. This can provide the user potentially with a better experience than could be obtained with a cellular only interface or a WiFi only interface.

The ABR client being in the application layer can also prompt the user through the GUI whether the user wants to use cellular for a certain percentage. As such the rules present in the ABR client can include subscriber input in the decision making. The ABR client can also keep track data usage on fee incurring interfaces and ration usage of particular interfaces based on how close the subscriber is to a incurring additional fees. An algorithm can also be used that weighs the cost per data unit e.g. megabyte of the different interfaces with a cost that is acceptable to the subscriber. The cost that is acceptable to the subscriber can be calculated in some embodiments based on other metrics and historical information known about the subscriber.

The fragment request module is configured to communicate with the network interface selection module to select media fragments to request from media servers shown in . The fragment request module can include the intelligence and rules of the ABR client in some embodiments. This intelligence and rules can be used to determine which interface to send the ABR fragment request over. The network interface selection module is configured to select a network interface from which to receive network services. In some embodiments the network interface selection module makes the selection based on the determination in the fragment request module . In other embodiments the network interface selection module includes the intelligence and rules of the ABR client and tracks ABR fragment requests. The network interfaces can include interfaces to different types of communication networks including cellular networks WLANs Ethernet Femto and unlicensed spectrum. Cellular networks can include LTE networks. A wireless interface for LTE networks can include a base station such as an eNodeB a wireless interface for WLANs can include an access point.

The network interface selection module can select the serving wireless interface by analyzing data load information associated with wireless interfaces. In certain embodiments the network interface selection module can be configured to attach to a wireless interface handling the least amount of data traffic and or with more available resources. In certain embodiments the network interface selection module can also analyze additional information to decide to which wireless interface to connect. For example the network interface selection module can use one or more of the following the load condition associated with the candidate wireless interfaces the wireless signal strength associated with the candidate wireless interfaces and a configuration status or subscriber profile information on the wireless interface selection module indicating whether the subscriber has preferences in managing ABR content delivery over multiple interfaces.

The ABR client fragment request module and or network interface selection module can be implemented in software using memory such as a non transitory computer readable medium a programmable read only memory PROM or flash memory. The software can run on a processor that executes instructions or computer code. The ABR client fragment request module and or network interface selection module may also be implemented in hardware using an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic array PLA or any other integrated circuit.

The GUI interface can provide communication with an input and or output mechanism to communicate with UE users. UE users can use input output devices to send receive data to from the UE over the GUI interface . Input output devices can include but are not limited to a keyboard a screen a touch screen a monitor and a mouse. The GUI interface can operate under a number of different protocols and the GUI interface can be implemented in hardware to send and receive signals in a variety of mediums such as optical copper and wireless.

The UE described above can communicate with a plurality of radio access networks using a plurality of access technologies and with wired communication networks. The UE can be a smart phone offering advanced capabilities such as word processing web browsing gaming e book capabilities an operating system and a full keyboard. The UE may run an operating system such as Symbian OS iPhone OS RIM s Blackberry Windows Mobile Linux Palm WebOS and Android. The screen may be a touch screen that can be used to input data to the UE and the screen can be used instead of the full keyboard. The UE may have the capability to run applications or communicate with applications that are provided by servers in the communication network. The UE can receive updates and other information from these applications on the network.

The UE also encompasses many other devices such as televisions TVs video projectors set top boxes or set top units digital video recorders DVR computers netbooks laptops and any other audio visual equipment that can communicate with a network. The UE can also keep global positioning coordinates profile information or other location information in its stack or memory. The UE can have a memory such as a computer readable medium flash memory a magnetic disk drive an optical drive a programmable read only memory PROM and or a read only memory ROM . The UE can be configured with one or more processors that process instructions and run software that may be stored in memory. The processor can also communicate with the memory and interfaces to communicate with other devices. The processor can be any applicable processor such as a system on a chip that combines a CPU an application processor and flash memory. The interfaces can be implemented in hardware or software. The interfaces can be used to receive both data and control information from the network as well as local sources such as a remote control to a television. The UE can also provide a variety of user interfaces such as a keyboard a touch screen a trackball a touch pad and or a mouse. The UE may also include speakers and a display device in some embodiments.

Although the present disclosure has been described and illustrated in the foregoing example embodiments it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of implementation of the disclosure may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure which is limited only by the claims which follow. Other embodiments are within the following claims. For example the ABR client can be a client of a different media protocol.

