---

title: Systems, apparatus, and processes for using smart learning tools with touchscreen devices
abstract: Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can receive a first user-provided topic among a plurality of user-provided topics. Topic-based information related to the first user-provided topic is received. The first user-provided topic is assigned to a first game wheel segment among a plurality of game wheel segments. The plurality of game wheel segments define a game wheel. The first user-provided topic is selected based on a spinning of the game wheel. A problem based on the topic-based information is presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600592&OS=09600592&RS=09600592
owner: We The Smart Finger Puppet
number: 09600592
owner_city: Santa Barbara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151110
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 078 546 filed on Nov. 12 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to learning tools and more particularly to smart learning tools that may be used with touchscreen devices.

With the growing prevalence of touchscreen technology a growing number of schools are now allowing classrooms to use hand held touchscreen devices as learning tools among children and adults. This technology presents new opportunities to engage students in interactive ways that will assist in their learning and get students excited about education.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can include systems methods and non transitory computer readable media configured to receive a first user provided topic among a plurality of user provided topics. Topic based information related to the first user provided topic is received. The first user provided topic is assigned to a first game wheel segment among a plurality of game wheel segments. The plurality of game wheel segments define a game wheel. The first user provided topic is selected based on a spinning of the game wheel. A problem based on the topic based information is presented.

In an embodiment receiving topic based information related to the first user provided topic comprises receiving a file address.

In an embodiment presenting a problem based on the topic based information comprises presenting a first piece of information that was obtained from the URL and presenting a second piece of information that was not obtained from the URL.

In an embodiment associating the first player with the first character comprises reading a QR code associated with the first character.

In an embodiment associated the first player with the first character comprises associating the first player with a first conductive finger puppet.

In an embodiment the first conductive finger puppet is configured to provide biometric feedback relating to the first player.

In an embodiment a selection of a game mode from a plurality of game modes is receives the plurality of game modes including a learning mode and a trivia mode.

These and other features and advantages of the invention should become more readily apparent from the detailed description of the preferred embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the disclosure.

The drawings are provided for purposes of illustration only and merely depict typical or example implementations. These drawings are provided to facilitate the reader s understanding and shall not be considered limiting of the breadth scope or applicability of the disclosure. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology described herein. For clarity and ease of illustration these drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale.

Improvements in technology have yielded new tools and resources that may be used to increase the effectiveness with which students are taught. These improvements include the use of touch screen devices in classrooms and new software and hardware that may be used in conjunction with these devices.

However it continues to be a challenge for educators to utilize the available technology in a way that is engaging and effective for students. Therefore an improved approach can be beneficial for alleviating various concerns associated with conventional approaches or improving conventional approaches. Based on computer technology the disclosed technology can provide a customizable and engaging learning game in which players can play by themselves or compete against others to learn various topics of interest.

As shown in the example of the wheel learning game module can include an information module a learning mode module and a trivia mode module . In some instances the example system can include at least one data store . The components e.g. modules elements etc. shown in this figure and all figures herein are exemplary only and other implementations may include additional fewer integrated or different components. Some components may not be shown so as not to obscure relevant details.

The wheel learning game module can be implemented in part or in whole as software hardware or any combination thereof. In general a module as discussed herein can be associated with software hardware or any combination thereof. In some implementations one or more functions tasks and or operations of modules can be carried out or performed by software routines software processes hardware and or any combination thereof. In some cases the wheel learning game module can be implemented in part or in whole as software running on one or more computing devices or systems such as on a server computing system or a user or client computing system. For example the wheel learning game module or at least a portion thereof can be implemented as or within an application e.g. app a program or an applet etc. running on a user computing device or a client computing system such as the user device of . In another example the wheel learning game module or at least a portion thereof can be implemented using one or more computing devices or systems that include one or more servers such as network servers or cloud servers. It should be understood that there can be many variations or other possibilities.

The information module can be configured to receive store and or load information relating to various topics that may be used in a learning game. In certain embodiments a learning game may be used to help users learn information relating to various topics. A user may be asked to input various topics or information that the user wishes to learn which the information module may then receive and store so that it can be used in the learning game. Aspects of the information module are discussed in greater detail herein.

The learning mode module can be configured to carry out a learning mode in a learning game. The learning mode may take the information obtained via the information module and present it to the user so that the user can study and learn the information. This may include taking a set of information and presenting it on a touch screen device for a user to study. Aspects of the learning mode module are discussed in greater detail herein.

The trivia mode module can be configured to carry out a trivia mode in a learning game in which various pieces of information and or questions are presented to a user for the user to select a correct answer and earn points. The information may preferably be related to the information that was obtained by the information module and presented to a user by the learning mode module . As such the trivia mode carried out by the trivia mode module can test the user to ensure that they have adequately and properly learned the material that the user wishes to learn. In certain embodiments the information module receives information that a user wishes to learn the learning mode module presents the information to the user so that the user can study and learn the information and the trivia mode module carries out a trivia game to test the user s learning and understanding of the material. Aspects of the trivia mode module are discussed in greater detail herein.

Furthermore in some embodiments the wheel learning game module can be configured to communicate and or operate with the at least one data store as shown in the example system . The data store can be configured to store and maintain various types of data. In some implementations the data store can store information associated with a learning game. The information associated with the learning game can include data about users and players various educational topics and associated information that users may wish to study and learn information for implementing various features and carrying out the rules of the learning game and various other types of data. In some embodiments the data store can store information that is utilized by the wheel learning game module . For instance the data store can store education topics and information inputted by the user e.g. information that the user has indicated that he or she wishes to study and learn user information e.g. login information password information contact information etc. player information player scores player topics game states game rules game interfaces and any other information that may be used to carry out the present technology disclosed herein. It is contemplated that there can be many variations or other possibilities.

The user is also prompted to enter additional game related information to set up the learning game. In the example shown in this additional game related information includes defining the number of sectors for the game drop down menu and defining one or more URLs for each sector drop down menu and input boxes .

In certain embodiments the learning game is a wheel based learning game in which each sector on a wheel is assigned to a particular topic. Within certain aspects of the game the wheel is spun and based on the spinning of the wheel a single sector is selected and a question and or problem associated with that sector s topic is presented to the user. In the drop down menu allows the user to select how many sectors should be used for the wheel based learning game and the user has selected sectors.

As discussed above each sector on the wheel can be assigned a particular topic. When the wheel is spun and lands on a particular sector questions and or problems relating to that sector s assigned topic are presented to the user. Using drop down menu and the input boxes a user can assign a topic to each wheel sector and provide the information that provides the basis for the questions and problems presented in the wheel based learning game for that sector topic. For example in the user has selected sector in the drop down menu . The information boxes below the drop down menu ask for six different URLs. In this example a user can input up to six different web URL s to be associated with sector . Each of the web URL s entered by the user may contain information that can be used by the wheel based learning game to create questions or problems when the wheel lands on sector . The learning game may be configured to locate the URLs specified by the user and to pull information from the URL to be incorporated into the learning game. For example the learning game may download text images videos and other data stored at the provided URL. The learning game can be configured to defragment data at the provided URLs i.e. break down the information into smaller components which may then be incorporated into the learning game.

By having the user provide the information for the learning game each user can customize the contents of the game to fit their own needs rather than forcing the user to use pre determined information sets provided by the game maker or other producers. In other embodiments a user may be given the option to input not only URLs but also other addresses files or any other identifier identifying information that the user wishes to be included in the learning game.

Once the user has finished inputting the URLs for sector the user can select drop down menu select sector and input URLs for sector and so on until the user has input all of the relevant information for all twelve sectors. If there are multiple players each player can go through the process of inputting sector topics and information as described above. The inputted information may be stored and associated with each individual user so that the user need not re enter the information each time and may be given the option to load previously entered topics and or URLs in the future.

In certain embodiments each sector in the wheel based learning game can be associated with one or more applications for example by entering an application identifier e.g. a URL for the application or an application file address into the information boxes . For example if the wheel lands on a sector that has been associated with an application the application could be opened and played by the user. In a more particular embodiment the user s playing of the application could be recorded and stored in the sector. The recording could then be used as part of the trivia mode of the learning game. Recording time can be predetermined or automatically set. The recording can be defragmented and the defragmented components could be used during the trivia mode. In this way videos music apps websites pictures and anything that can be accessed by a URL could be stored in any of the sectors of the game wheel. Any of the game wheel sectors can have the ability to record video music pictures etc. that can then be stored in that particular sector. The stored information can be defragmented by the wheel app game and the user s memory of the recordings can then be tested in the trivia mode to see if he or she remembers what information was stored in their particular sector.

In various embodiments the wheel may be a physical wheel as shown in or may be an electronic digital wheel presented on a user device. Spinning of the digital wheel may be performed using a randomization algorithm or other spinning algorithm to cause the digital wheel to spin and randomly or semi randomly select a sector.

In certain embodiments the wheel may include a replaceable front design or overlay printed on paper plastic wood glass fiber textile ceramic rubber composite metal or any suitable material which can be placed to cover the top of the wheel . The replaceable front overlay may include lines to demarcate the different sectors and may include text or visuals to indicate the topic associated with each sector. The overlay can also be printed with electronic circuitry using conductive ink that can interact with various components such as for example circuit stickers and electronic modules such as adapters switches LEDs potentiometer transistors sensors blinkers buzzers switches connectors motors and logic gates. The replaceable front overlay can have a steel backing that allows modules to snap onto the replaceable front overlay. Electronic displays can also be integrated into the wheel that can communicate with website servers electronic devices or any combination thereof. The replaceable front overlay can be modified or designed for any suitable purpose including without limitation reading mathematics science any curriculum product services or subject. It can also include bar codes QR codes fiducial markers such as those developed by reacTIVision Touchcodes RFID NFC tags and any combination thereof.

Although an example of the game wheel has been discussed it should be understood that it can be manufactured in any suitable or desirable shape known in the art. The wheel can consist of one or more parts or pieces integrated together. It can also include integrated electronics. For example it may include components that can communicate via wifi Bluetooth infrared NFC optical communication all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation and any combination thereof with website servers touchscreen devices optical or holographic devices laptops computers video or music devices and any combination of these devices. One embodiment includes a base that may be fixed and has an arrow shaped marker that can be spring loaded or placed inside a piece of wood. The arrow shaped marker can be a preferred embodiment that can be removable and replaceable but various modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention. Two alternative embodiments of the wheel are demonstrated in .

The arrow can be integrated with electronics that allow it to interact with other components and devices such as one or more finger puppets one or more removable pegs and replaceable overlays.

The wheel can include one or more upstanding pegs . In certain embodiments these pegs may be removable. Each peg stand can be used to display hold and store a finger puppet as discussed in greater detail herein. The pegs can be designed in any desirable manner known in the art. They can be divided into one or more pieces or slices that correspond to a particular subject matter.

The pegs may be attached to a base of any shape including without limitation trains accessory cars tracks bridges buildings engines cabooses fire trucks school buses tow trucks tugboat vehicle cars and animal cars such as dog cat duck bear cow giraffe zebra and any suitable or desirable shape known in the art. The pegs may also be integrated with electronics to interact with other devices and components such as for example the wheel the arrow or one or more finger puppets. The pegs can also include barcodes QR codes fiducial markers Touchcodes RFID NFC tags or any combination thereof. Table based tangible user interfaces TUI and multi touch interactive surfaces such as a tangible modular synthesizer can also be integrated on the Wheel App game or the physical wheel.

As mentioned above each character may also have an associated finger puppet that may be used by each player to play the learning game on a touch screen device. For example if player has chosen the cat character shown in there may be a cat finger puppet that player may put on their finger to use in the game. The finger puppet may be conductive or have a conductive portion that creates a closed circuit to transfer electrical charge such that a touch screen device will be responsive to contact by the finger puppet. The finger puppets can be made of any suitable material. Suitable materials may include textile fabric polyester or wool wool felt material that can either hand knitted crocheted felted sewn in woven 3D printed machined or any combination thereof. Other materials can include without limitation wood metal plastic glass ceramic rubber composite textile or any combination thereof. The bulk interior and exterior surface or entire composition of the tip sections of the body or the whole body of the finger puppets can made of conductive yarn or any suitable conductive materials. Suitable conductive materials may include conductive polyester conductive wool conductive wool felt black carbon grapheme graphite carbon nanotube fibers nanowires nanomaterials semiconductors metals conductive paper conductive rubber conductive plastic conductive fabric conductive wood conductive glass conductive ceramic metamaterials and any combination thereof. In certain embodiments the finger puppet can be configured to carry sufficient conductivity on the conductive material such that electricity can flow from a person s finger or hand to the touchscreen device. Finger puppets can also be made of smart materials that change color form or shape in response to an external or internal stimuli such as stress temperature air composition moisture pH electric and or magnetic fields.

The material used to create a finger puppet can be hand knitted crocheted felted sewn woven printed using 3D printers machined into the fabric fabricated or manufactured in any suitable or desirable way known in the art. In certain embodiments the finger puppets can include a sliding knot cord made of any suitable material including hemp yarn leather fiber rubber textile composites and combinations thereof that can secure or tighten the finger puppet onto a finger. In another embodiment fingers puppets can also include a bracelet that can secure or tighten the finger puppet on the arm. The finger puppets can have a locking mechanism known in the art. They may also be embellished or designed with a non removable or removable printed material clothes or accessories key chains magnets hooks pockets or the like. In certain embodiments the finger puppet can also function or be made into a wearable device such as a watch or wristband that can continuously monitor health and physical activities. The finger puppet can also be placed anywhere on the body and be used for health monitoring.

In certain embodiments the materials used to make the finger puppets can also be made into a battery using materials such as carbon nanotube fibers nanowires nanomaterials semiconductors metals paper plastic ceramic and any combination thereof. The finger puppets can be integrated with electronic devices such as circuit stickers electronic modules light emitting diodes computer sensors displays detectors laser camera semiconductor devices nanotechnology or any combination thereof. The finger puppets may be configured to interact with other components and devices such as the replaceable overlay or the wheel the pegs or the arrow .

Various aspects of a wheel based learning game will now be described in greater detail in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As discussed above the wheel based learning game may be played on a user device such as a computer tablet smart phone mobile device or other computing device. The user device may have a touch screen or an alternative user interface for users to view questions and select answers e.g. a traditional keyboard mouse and computer display arrangement . In certain embodiments use of a mobile device connected to a wide area network such as the Internet may allow for access to an endless selection of content and entertainment remotely. Providing content such as URLs videos any media from the user device to a display such as a TV while allowing the user device to keep functioning on its own breaks the boundaries of the traditional screen. The learning game disclosed herein can be delivered remotely at any location and allow game players access to a customized gamepad controller that fits the player s and game s needs when the game is beamed to a display. The disclosed game can be played remotely anywhere so long as players are connected to the internet. In certain embodiments other devices may also be integrated into the wheel based learning game such as holograms infrared sensors infrared cameras acoustic ultrasound and other electromagnetic waves that can turn any flat screen TV monitor or surface into an interactive screen or touchscreen. Such interactive screens and surface can display the learning game and also interact with users and the smart learning tools disclosed herein.

The wheel based learning game may begin by requesting players to input various information and topics that the players wish to study learn about and be tested on. In the example shown in players were ask to input various information links such as URLs or file addresses each information link containing information on one or more topics. For ease of explanation URLs will be used to explain the example embodiment. The wheel based learning game can then access and pull information from each URL provided e.g. pulling text videos images and other data . According to the information provided by the player each sector in the game is assigned a particular topic and information associated with that topic is stored and associated with that sector. Each player may define a different topic for every sector such that when it is a first player s turn each sector will be assigned with a topic according to a first set of topics and when it is a second player s turn each sector may be assigned with a topic according to a second set of topics that differs from the first set of topics. The information pulled from the various URLs may then be used to teach and educate the player on each of the various topics and then later test the player on the various topics using the material contained within the provided URLs.

Each player may choose a character to act as an avatar for the player within the wheel based learning game. Each character may have a character card and or a conductive finger puppet associated with the character. Users can then provide input to the wheel based learning game specifying the character to be associated with each player. This may be done for example using a drop down menu within the game or using a QR code on the back of the character card or a QR code or other identifying device e.g. NFC tag Bluetooth etc. on the conductive finger puppet.

The wheel based learning game may have two different modes a learning mode and a trivia mode. In the learning mode users may be presented with the base information contained within the provided URLs so that users can study and learn the information. In one embodiment of the learning mode players may take turns spinning a wheel e.g. . As the wheel spins and lands on a sector each sector being associated with a topic and information the information associated with that sector may then be presented to the user for the user to view and study. For example if the sector is associated with an educational video and the wheel lands on that sector the video may be played for the user. As noted above each sector may be assigned a different topic and different information for each player i.e. sector of may be an Algebra sector for Player and may be a Revolutionary War sector for Player . Each player can take turns spinning the wheel and learning about each of the different sectors topics on their particular wheel this may be a single physical wheel but it is unique set up for each player . The wheel may be programmed so that in the learning mode it keeps track of which sectors have already been presented for each player so as not to present each sector more than once. Alternatively the wheel may be completely random such that sectors may be repeated multiple times. Players may have the option of repeating information presentations if they feel they need to view it again or may have the option of skipping sector information presentations that they have already seen previously. Alternatively in the learning mode players may not be asked to spin the wheel and may simply go through each topic sector and the associated information in whatever way they feel will best assist in their learning.

In certain embodiments the wheel based learning game can be configured to utilize biofeedback from a smart finger puppet integrated with smart sensors. For example the wheel based learning game can be configured to measure movements of a smart finger puppet such as bend stretch flex and display these parameters on a display. The wheel based learning game can also display the measurement values of how much pressure the user applies on their finger or hands while performing fine motor activities. This quantitative data can be turn into a visual diagram game biofeedback shown as values corresponding to the avatar finger puppet that will be associated with the user s actual health. shows an example wheel based learning game interface including a biometric feedback display. Real time health monitoring and game entertainment can be integrated by users and even utilized for physical therapy for example for users with difficulty making precise movements with their hands and fingers. For example if the game wheel lands on a sector of the wheel that has been assigned to a physical therapy or biometric play application a 3D animation of the smart finger puppet can be displayed. Software such as software development kit SUA augmented reality software mechanical translation software and programming language such as Lua scripting language can be utilized to allow the game application and the finger puppet to interact and communicate with each other. A user could utilize the smart finger puppet integrated with electronics to make and record an animation based on the movements of the finger puppet and store the recording in a sector of the wheel. Recording time can be set by the game application automatically. The recording can be defragmented by the game application and then the components can be used to test the user s memory in the trivia mode portion of the game as discussed in greater detail herein.

In certain embodiments the wheel based learning game can be configured to use a camera on a user device and or motion capture hardware integrated into the smart finger puppet or a smart glove . Utilizing these components the wheel based learning game can utilize technologies such as tactile haptic technology and or holographic technology for users to virtually spin the game wheel with the motions of their hand but without actually touching a game wheel discussed in greater detail herein .

Once players have completed learning material in the learning mode players may then move on to the trivia mode. In the trivia mode users may play a game and be tested on the information that they studied and learned in the learning mode. In one embodiment the trivia game may be carried out by having each player spin the wheel. The wheel will land on a sector associated with a particular topic information and a question or problem will be presented to the user based on the particular topic or information. The user must then select or provide the correct answer. illustrates an example situation in which the user is asked a question What is 2 5 and must select the correct answer. The user may do this by pressing the correct balloon on the user device touch screen. Each player takes turns spinning the wheel and answering questions. Points may be awarded for correct answers and subtracted for incorrect answers. Since each player is associated with a unique game wheel having different topics assigned to each sector the wheel based learning game may be configured to keep track of which player s turn it is so that the correct topics are assigned to the correct sectors. This will also allow the game to keep track of points for each correct answer by each player.

The wheel based learning game may create questions and or problems from the information provided in various ways. For example the information provided may specify particular questions and answers which may be tagged as questions and answers such that the learning game can read the tags to present prepared questions and answers. Alternatively the learning game may read in a variety of information and create questions or problems on its own. For example the learning game may present one answer option that is pulled from the information provided and present another option that is not from the information provided. In a more particular embodiment the learning game may take snippets of the information to create true statements and false statements. By way of further example consider the situation in which the topic is the Revolutionary War and the user has provided one or more URLs containing information about the Revolutionary War. In this example the learning game may receive from the user provided URL the information that the Revolutionary War began in 1775. Seeing this statement the learning game may create one option containing the statement The Revolutionary War began in 1775 and create another statement The Revolutionary War began in 1842. The user would have to know which statement is true and which is false to answer the problem correctly. In another example embodiment the learning game may present a snippet of information from the provided URLs e.g. a screenshot of a video an image a sentence of text as one option and a snippet of information not from the provided URLs e.g. from a random URL or from a database of false random information and the user will have to remember which snippet of information came from the topic URL s in order to select the correct answer. Players may be asked to provide irrelevant or incorrect URLs that do not relate to the topics selected for source material for incorrect options or the learning game may have its own database of irrelevant and or incorrect material that may be used. This database of irrelevant and or incorrect material may be stored locally on the same computing machine as the learning game or it may be stored in a remote server connected over a network.

The wheel based learning game s trivia mode may itself have various game settings which slightly vary the way the trivia mode game is played. For example in a first trivia mode setting each player may identify the different topics to be assigned to their own game wheel. In this first mode player might select twelve topics for the twelve wheel sectors defining a first game wheel which player would then use for the trivia game. Player would select his or her own twelve topics for the twelve wheel sectors defining a second game wheel and player would play the game based on his or her selected twelve topics in this second game wheel and so forth.

In a second trivia mode setting players may select topics for each other such that each player is asked questions on topics selected by another player. For example player may select twelve topics to be assigned to the twelve wheel sectors defining a first game wheel. However rather than player being asked questions based on the first game wheel another player player may be asked questions based on the topics selected by player . And thereby player would also be asked questions based on topics selected by another player e.g. player or player .

Finally in a third trivia mode setting each player may select twelve topics for the twelve sectors on the wheel but topics may then be arranged randomly on each player s game wheel such that every player may be asked a question based on any topic selected by any player. In this mode topics may be assigned to each player s wheel at the start of the game and remain static throughout the game or topics may be randomly assigned to each player s wheel for each player s turn such that every turn may result in a different game wheel for each player. Alternatively in this mode topics may not be assigned to each sector in the wheel and questions may be randomly asked to each player based on any of the topics selected without the need to spin the wheel.

In certain embodiments the present invention can also utilize a holographic laser projection device that integrates infrared sensing technology to create an interactive projector that instantly can transform the game wheel s top surface into a touchscreen. Laser light sources can create bright high quality images without the need for special viewing screens. One embodiment of this invention can also be 3D holograms that float in space which can be touched with bare hands. The projected images can float in space away from the display surface and can be integrated with a tactile display such as an Airborne Ultrasound Tactile Display which provides tactile sensation onto the user s hand.

Examples of haptic holographic and tactile technology can be found in the following U.S. patents and U.S. patent application publications each of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2015 0080060 entitled Mobile Devices and Methods Employing Haptics published Mar. 19 2015 to Rodriguez et al. U.S. Pat. No. 9 092 954 entitled Wearable Haptic Device issued Jul. 28 2015 to Visitacion et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 890 667 entitled Apparatus and Method for Providing Visual Haptic Information and Button Having the Same issued Nov. 18 2014 to Lim et al. U.S. Pat. No. 9 148 897 entitled Synchronizing Mobile Devices and Displays issued Sep. 29 2015 to Piqueras Jover U.S. Pat. No. 9 013 451 entitled Through Display Ultrasonic Touch Screen Monitor issued Apr. 21 2015 to Schneider et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0232764 entitled Image Display Apparatus and Control Method Thereof published Aug. 21 2014 to Nishio U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0002405 entitled Method and Apparatus for Sensory Tags Providing Sound Smell and Haptic Feedback published Jan. 3 2013 to Pesonen et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0306425 entitled Haptic Interface published Dec. 15 2011 to Rivard et al. U.S. Pat. No. 9 069 031 entitled Piezoeletrically Actuated Magnetic Field Sensor issued Jun. 30 2015 to Guedes et al U.S. Pat. No. 8 500 284 entitled Broad Viewing Angle Displays and User Interfaces issued Aug. 6 2013 to Rotschild et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0146005 entitled Display Apparatus for Sensing Touch and Providing an Electro Tactile Feeling and a Method of Driving the Same published May 29 2014 to Hong et al and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2015 0234485 entitled Apparatus for Providing a Three Dimensional Tactile Display of an Electronic Device published Aug. 20 2015 to Ragan Jr. et al.

At block the example method can receive a plurality of user provided topics and information related to each topic. At block the example method can assign each topic to a wheel segment on a wheel. At block the example method can select one of the topics based on spinning of the game wheel. At block the example method can present information relating to the topic in a learning mode or present a problem based on the information relating to the topic in a trivia mode .

The user device comprises one or more computing devices or systems that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a computing device or a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a laptop computer a wearable device e.g. a pair of glasses a watch a bracelet etc. a camera an appliance etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application or a gaming application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the game server system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the game server system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the game server system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 702.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the game server system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the game server system using a browser application or a gaming application. The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the game server system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

Alternatively or in conjunction with the browser application and the markup language document the wheel learning game module may be a stand alone gaming application that does not require communication over the network or any additional information from the game server system other than what is available locally on the user device . In this embodiment the modules and functions of the game server system may actually be stored locally on the user device and available locally to the wheel learning game module .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the game server system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the game server system is associated with a separate domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The game server system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store an action logger an activity log and an authorization server . In an embodiment of the invention the game server system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including login information learning information performance information previously entered URL information and other types of descriptive information related to carrying out the technology disclosed herein. This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified.

The web server links the game server system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the game server system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the game server system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the game server system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the game server system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the game server system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the game server system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the game server system to discover various actions taken by its users within the game server system and outside of the game server system . When a user takes an action within the game server system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the game server system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the game server system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the game server system including storing and enforcing user login password information.

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the game server system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the game server system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Moreover the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor . In various implementations a module or modules can be executed by a processor or multiple processors in one or multiple locations such as multiple servers in a parallel processing environment.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments some embodiments various embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

