---

title: Programmable pH buffers
abstract: A programmable pH buffer comprises a copolymer that changes pKat a lower critical solution temperature (LCST) in water. The copolymer comprises a thermally programmable polymer that undergoes a hydrophobic-to-hydrophilic phase change at the LCST and an electrolytic polymer that exhibits acid-base properties that are responsive to the phase change. The programmable pH buffer can be used to sequester COinto water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09550168&OS=09550168&RS=09550168
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09550168
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150924
---
This is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 13 455 946 filed Apr. 25 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to pH buffers and in particular to thermally programmable pH buffers that can be used for reversible COsequestration into water.

A wide range of reactions that occur in aqueous solution are heavily dependent on the concentrations of available protons or hydroxide ions. The ability to control solution pH where pH log HO is required for many reactions in biochemistry synthesis and processing and colloid chemistry as well as for a myriad of technological processes that are performed in water. As many of the reactions of interest consume or release either protons or hydroxide ions reagents that can buffer the solution pH to specific values are often required. When a given process or reaction only requires a single pH value standard pH buffers are adequate. However some processes require the ability to switch from one pH to another. One example of such a process is precipitation where a homogeneous pH change is required to move from a regime in which precursors are soluble into a regime where the solution is supersaturated and nucleation and growth can occur. See B. C. Bunker et al. 264 5155 48 1994 .

A specific example in which reversible and programmed pH changes can be a powerful tool involves the reversible sequestration of COfrom the atmosphere. The U.S. Department of Energy has set a goal for removing over one billion metric tons per year of COfrom air and or the effluent of coal fired power plants. One inexpensive mechanism for achieving this goal is to program water to reversibly capture and release the CO. As shown in capture can be achieved at high pH by converting relatively insoluble COinto the highly soluble anionic bicarbonate ion up to a theoretical limit of 11 M . See D. A. Palmer and R. Vaneldik 83 6 651 1983 . Conversely release is promoted by switching back to low pH which converts the soluble bicarbonates back to insoluble COgas. While such pH changes could be achieved by cycling between additions of strong acids and bases to the solution it would be more efficient to have a programmable pH buffer in the system as a reservoir for reversibly adding or removing either protons or hydroxide ions without the need to continuously add and consume external reagents.

The present invention is directed to a programmable pH buffer comprising a copolymer that changes pKat a lower critical solution temperature in water wherein the copolymer comprises a thermally programmable polymer that undergoes a hydrophobic to hydrophilic phase change at the lower critical solution temperature and an electrolytic polymer that exhibits acid base properties that are responsive to the phase change. The thermally programmable polymer can be hydrophilic below the lower critical solution temperature and hydrophobic above the lower critical solution temperature. For example the thermally programmable polymer can comprise poly N isopropylacrylamide poly N ethylacrylamide or poly N N dimethylacrylamide . The copolymer can change from a low pKin water below the lower critical solution temperature to a high pKin water above the lower critical solution temperature. For example the electrolytic polymer can comprise an acid such as acrylic acid. The acrylic acid comprises a carboxylic acid group that captures CO g from water above the lower critical solution temperature by converting carbonic acid HCO to bicarbonate anion HCO . Alternatively the programmable pH buffer can comprise a copolymer that changes from a high pKin water below the lower critical solution temperature to a low pKin water above the lower critical solution temperature. For example the electrolytic polymer can comprise an amine preferably a primary amine. The primary amine can comprise N 3 aminopropyl methacrylamide hydrochloride. The copolymer can further comprise a hydrophobic monomer such as methylmethacrylate styrene or n butyl acrylate.

The invention is further directed to a method for COsequestration into water comprising dissolving a programmable pH buffer in water wherein the programmable pH buffer comprises a copolymer that changes pKat a lower critical solution temperature in water wherein the copolymer comprises a thermally programmable polymer that undergoes a hydrophobic to hydrophilic phase change at the lower critical temperature and an electrolytic polymer that exhibits acid base properties that are responsive to the phase change and heating the aqueous solution above the lower critical solution temperature whereby the copolymer exchanges COinto the water. The copolymer can change from a low pKin water below the lower critical solution temperature to a high pKin water above the lower critical solution temperature thereby capturing COfrom water upon heating the aqueous solution above the lower critical solution temperature. For reversible COsequestration the method can further comprise cooling the aqueous solution below the lower critical solution temperature whereby the copolymer releases COinto water. Alternatively the copolymer can change from a high pKin water below the lower critical solution temperature to a low pKin water above the lower critical solution temperature thereby releasing COinto water upon heating the aqueous solution above the lower critical solution temperature and capturing COfrom water upon cooling the aqueous solution below the lower critical solution temperature. For COsequestration the lower critical solution temperature is preferably greater than 20 C. and less than 50 C. and the buffer capacity is greater than 1 mM in aqueous solution.

An exemplary copolymer based approach utilizes the incorporation of carboxylic acid groups within the polymer poly N isopropylacrylacrylamide PNIPAM was investigated as a model system for thermally programmable pH buffers. The exemplary buffer system relies on a phase transition based on a lower critical solution temperature to change the local environment around ionizable acid groups from a hydrophilic to a hydrophobic state. Results show that this phase transition is capable of changing pKvalues for the tethered acid groups by over five units from 5.1 to 10.4. However deprotonation of tethered acid sites has been found to increase the transition temperature and decrease the extent to which pKvalues can be changed. These changes are a direct result of the fact that the anionic sites resulting from deprotonation of polymer bound acids are hydrophilic suppressing the hydrophobicity of the polymer above the transition temperature. Compositional changes can compensate for the adverse effects induced by anion content for LCST polymers used in applications requiring both high buffer capacities and reversibility. These changes include altering the ratio of acid groups to NIPAM groups with the copolymer incorporation of amine based functionality in place of acid groups and copolymerization with hydrophobic monomers.

Many reactions in both chemistry and biology rely on the ability to precisely control and fix the solution concentrations of either protons or hydroxide ions. Mixtures of acids and their conjugate anions represent the classical chemical systems that are used to buffer the acidity of aqueous solutions to a specific pH value. The present invention is directed to programmable pH buffer systems based on the attachment of electrolytic groups to polymers that exhibit a lower critical solution temperature LCST .

An embodiment of the present invention comprises a copolymer of N isopropylacrylamide NIPAM and acrylic acid AA . As this polymer undergoes a thermally activated phase transition the local environment around the acid groups can be switched between hydrophilic and hydrophobic states. At room temperature PNIPAM is water soluble highly swollen and hydrophilic. At the lower critical solution temperature LOST of around 30 C. this polymer undergoes a phase transition to produce a polymer that collapses is hydrophobic and becomes significantly less water soluble. Previously the PNIPAM phase transition has been utilized for processes such as the reversible capture and release of proteins in microfluidic devices. See D. L. Huber et al. 301 5631 352 2003 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 422 724 to Manginell et al. The phase transition is capable of changing dissociation constants for the tethered acid groups by over five orders of magnitude through moderate temperature variations. The nature of the transition and its impact on pKvalues is highly dependant on the degree of ionization of the polymer. In particular polymer composition and ionization affects the transition temperature the magnitude of pKchanges and the ion exchange capacity of the buffer. The programmable pH buffer system can be used for reversible COsequestration in water.

An exemplary buffer system is based on the introduction of acidic or basic groups into a thermally programmable polymer poly N isopropylacrylamide or PNIPAM. An exemplary thermally programmable pH buffer comprises a copolymer containing 10 mole of acrylic acid AA and 90 mole NIPAM. This exemplary model polymer shown in is referred to herein as P NIPAM AA . As shown in the mechanism by which the P NIPAM AA buffer system works relies on switching the hydrophilic to hydrophobic character of the environment within which the carboxylic acid groups in P NIPAM AA reside. Below the PNIPAM transition temperature the polymer bound AA groups reside in a water rich hydrophilic environment. In this environment these AA groups exhibit acid base properties that are similar to those exhibited by carboxylic acids dissolved in water with a pKof around 5 

Properties of interest for programmable pH buffers include 1 the capacity of the buffer which is controlled by the number of equivalents of polymer bound acid groups that can be dissolved in or exposed to the solution 2 the transition temperature at which switching occurs which is controlled via polymer composition and can be tuned through the entire liquid range of water 3 the change in pKthat is achievable on switching which is determined by the extent to which the hydrophobicity of the local environment changes above the transition temperature and 4 the mid point of the pKwindow which depends on both the pKof the acid base groups attached to the polymer and the nature of the polymer. See D. W. Urry 32 6 819 1993 . In principle it should be possible to create a programmable pH buffer to meet almost any application as it is known that the switching temperature the pKrange and the pKmidpoint can be controlled over wide ranges via the polymer composition. In practice the properties of the buffer can be optimized since compositional changes that mediate one property affect all properties.

Described below are the properties associated with the exemplary programmable pH buffer consisting of 90 mole NIPAM and 10 mole AA. Studies on this polymer illustrate the use of thermally programmable polymers to generally control solution pH. By varying the relative ratios of the protonated and anionic forms of the PAA i.e. HA and A different polymer properties can be varied as a function of polymer composition and or buffer capacity. In particular thermally programmable pH buffers allow for significant and reversible programming of solution pH.

A P NIPAM AA copolymer comprised of 90 mole NIPAM and 10 mole AA was prepared using a standard free radical polymerization. NIPAM was recrystallized from hexane while all other reagents were used as received. The monomers N isopropylacrylamide 18.3 g 162 mmole and acrylic acid 1.3 g 18 mmol were dissolved in 200 ml of THF to which the radical initiator AIBN 0.3 g 1.8 mmol was added. Under a nitrogen atmosphere the reaction mixture was vigorously stirred and heated to 60 C. for 4 hours. The reaction was cooled and the solvent was evaporated. The recovered solid was dissolved in 400 mL of water filtered and then heated to boiling. A hot gravity filtration was performed to collect the precipitated polymer.

The molecular weight of the polymer was determined using gel permeation chromatography GPC in THF solutions following a dissolution and equilibration period of four hours. The molecular weight is reported as a polystyrene equivalent weight and must be taken as approximate. The composition of the polymer dissolved in DMSO was determined using nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy. Polymer titrations to determine the moles of acid equivalents present per unit mass were performed. The pH meter was calibrated using standard IUPAC buffer solutions of pH 4 7 and 10. End point titrations were performed in water using 0.1 M NaOH to a final pH of 9 or 10. Titrant additions were controlled using software.

Polymer solutions were prepared by dissolving P NIPAM AA overnight in deionized water. The standard solution concentration was 1 wt or 10M in acrylic acid groups although measurements at 5 wt were also performed. The temperature was controlled using a standard hot plate and both the temperature and pH were recorded simultaneously using software. The inverse transition temperature of the polymer was determined by slowly heating an aqueous polymer solution from room temperature to 70 C. at a rate of 5 C. min. The temperature at which the clear polymer solution became opaque due to polymer precipitation i.e. the cloud point was noted. Conversely the temperature at which the solution clarified on cooling was also noted.

As described above the exemplary programmable pH buffer was a copolymer containing 90 mole of NIPAM and 10 mole AA that was synthesized via free radical polymerization. The PNIPAM host polymer was used to provide thermal programmability via the LOST phase transition at around 30 C. while the AA provided the acid groups required for the pH buffer. The polymer had a molecular weight of 25 000 g mole as determined via GPC in THF. The composition and acrylic acid content of the polymer i.e. the 90 10 ratio of NIPAM to AA were verified using NMR spectroscopy and acid base titrations. The 90 10 P NIPAM AA has a molecular weight of 1080 g mole per AA which corresponds to roughly 23 PAA groups per each 25 000 g mole chain.

To determine the maximum capacity of the pH buffer increasing amounts of the polymer were dissolved in water at room temperature until the solution became viscous relative to bulk water. Above the phase transition the PNIPAM PAA solutions became hard to stir for solids loadings exceeding 5 wt which corresponds to a total buffer capacity of 4.6 10M. All experiments described herein were performed at a solids loading of 1 or 1.08 wt 9.3 10M or 10M in AA respectively where solution viscosities were comparable to that of water. To put this buffer capacity into perspective the standard phosphate buffer systems PBS 1 used for biochemical investigations has a total phosphate concentration of 0.01 M.

Various strategies can be deployed if a buffer capacity greater than 10M is desired 1 If viscosity is not a serious problem for the process under consideration the capacity can be increased by a factor of 5 by utilizing higher solution concentrations. 2 The mole fraction of acid groups on the polymer can be increased. However as will be shown below increasing the acid content does not necessarily increase the usable capacity of the polymer. 3 The polymer can be attached to a support rather than being left free floating in solution. This latter strategy may seem counter intuitive as the support occupies volume that does not contain any acid groups. However the maximum polymer concentration that is practical in solution is limited by the chain overlap concentration c above which the viscosity rapidly increases. For highly swollen P NIPAM AA chains c is estimated to be 2 wt based on a measured radius of gyration R of 8 nm for 25 000 molecular weight chains. See I. Noda et al. 14 3 668 1981 . By tethering chains to a surface polymer concentrations are no longer limited by c but by the packing density of the tethered chains which can be as high as 5 chains nm. Therefore high polymer concentrations at particle surfaces can be achieved while retaining low viscosity polymer free areas between the particles. Experiments we have conducted on PNIPAM surfactants inserted into lipid bilayers suggest that P NIPAM AA concentrations of up to 0.1 M should be achievable for the polymer tethered to high surface area silica supports. These experiments also show that tethered PNIPAM still undergoes a hydrophilic to hydrophobic phase transition at the expected LOST although the volume change associated with the transition is clearly suppressed at high packing densities. A buffer concentration of 0.1 M likely represents the upper limit for what can be achieved with programmable buffer systems based on polymers that exhibit LOST behavior. However all of this capacity may not be available depending on the process within which the buffer system is deployed.

The pKof the fully protonated P NIPAM AA polymer was determined as a function of temperature in simple experiments in which the pH of solutions that were 10M in PAA groups from room temperature 22 C. up to 70 C. were monitored as shown in . At 22 C. the solution pH was 3.6 corresponding to H A 2.5 10M where A represents the concentration of carboxylic acid sites on the polymer. As the temperature was increased this pH did not change much until around 32 C. Between this temperature and 35 C. the appearance of the solution went from clear to cloudy indicating that 32 C. corresponds to the LCST also referred to as the cloud point for the 90 10 P NIPAM AA polymer. Above 33 C. the pH increased with temperature with the slope of the pH vs. T curve being steepest right above the transition temperature. However the pH continued to increase up to the maximum temperature examined of 70 C. On cooling the pH vs. T curve retraced itself with very little hysteresis with the polymer redissolving and the solution clarifying below 32 C. as expected. Heating and cooling was conducted multiple times with no apparent loss in activity showing that the behavior of the buffer is reversible and reproducible.

The pKof the polymer shown in was calculated from the data shown in using Eq. 1. At room temperature the pKis 5.2. This value is slightly higher than that of acrylic acid 4.3 but is well within the range expected for carboxylic acids attached to hydrocarbon chains e.g. pK 4.9 for octanoic acid . As the temperature increases the pKshows dramatic increases reaching a value of 10.4 at 70 C. This change in the acid dissociation constant by a factor of over 3 10validates the utility of hydrophilic hydrophobic switching to program buffer behavior. However while much of this increase occurs within 10 C. of the transition temperature the pKcontinues to increase as far above the transition as was investigated. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the polymer continues to collapse above the LCST becoming more hydrophobic as more water is expelled from the polymer. An indirect measure of the PNIPAM densification is that if the polymer is left at 70 C. for an extended period of time e.g. half a day the pH vs. T cooling curve starts to exhibit hysteresis and the polymer does not instantly re dissolve below the transition temperature although dissolution does eventually occur . In a 1 wt solution the extent of hysteresis and the time required for redissolution are negligible if the polymer is held at 50 C. These results suggest that if the polymer is held at high temperature for too long rehydration of the densified polymer is inhibited resulting in a slower phase transition.

In the experiments described above anion formation on the polymer buffer was established via the dissociation of the AA sites. The resulting anion concentration on the polymer at room temperature A 2.5 10M represents only 2.5 of the total acid sites present. At 70 C. the anion content is negligible 6 10M . Further experiments were conducted to explore the behavior of the polymer as a function of polymer ionization by adding NaOH to the solutions to neutralize a fraction of the AA groups and set the initial HA A ratio of the polymer. These experiments were done for two reasons 1 to explore how much of the proton capacity of the pH buffer can be used and 2 to determine the range of solution pH values that the polymer buffer can generate. For example if one could start with the totally anionic form of the polymer A 10M then the polymer would capture rather than release protons via the reaction 

A series of tests were conducted to determine the transition behavior as a function of the degree of polymer ionization. Multiple solutions with different ratios of HA A were prepared by partially neutralizing a 1 wt P NIPAM AA solution with 0.1 M NaOH. First the transition temperature was determined vs. HA A by monitoring the solution cloud point upon slowly heating well mixed solutions. shows that there is a systematic increase in the transition temperature with the degree of ionization of the polymer. This increase arises due to the fact that while protonated AA is relatively hydrophobic the anionic form generates local charges that increase the hydrophilic character of the polymer. It has been shown that systematic substitutions of hydrophobic or hydrophilic peptides within the polypeptide elastin result in similar variations in the transition temperature. See D. W. Urry 32 6 819 1993 . Hydrophilic substitutions lead to increases in the transition temperature while hydrophobic substitutions result in transition temperature decreases. The slope of the transition temperature vs. A curve is similar to that reported by Urry on elastin and is also consistent with the limited literature reports on the behavior of P NIPAM AA copolymers. See D. W. Urry 32 6 819 1993 and J. C. Kim 121 1 15 1997 . The consequences of the increase in transition temperature with increases in A are 1 more thermal energy is required to program the polymer and 2 the change in pKwith temperature is suppressed as more and more of the capacity of the buffer is utilized.

Changes in the transition temperature and pKresponse of the buffer were examined in more detail by performing a series of experiments to monitor pH vs. T as a function of the initial anion content of the polymer. Again the anion content was set by neutralizing a fraction of the AA groups on 1 wt P NIPAM AA solutions using 0.1 M NaOH. shows that while the pKbelow the transition temperature is relatively insensitive to A HA ratio the increased hydrophilicity of the polymer associated with AA ionization suppresses pKchanges above the transition temperature. For example the polymer in which 15 of the available AA groups have been deprotonated to make A has a pKat 60 C. of 6.8 which is significantly lower than the value of 9.7 measured for the pure HA form. A plot of the high temperature pKvs. A in shows that the impact of ionization on pKis most pronounced at relatively low degrees of ionization. This indicates that the presence of even fairly low A concentrations is sufficient to inhibit the extent of the PNIPAM collapse to create a hydrophobic internal environment above the transition temperature.

The major consequences of the impact of buffer ionization on suppressing the phase transition in the P NIPAM AA system involve trade offs between the buffer capacity the pKrange that can be accessed buffer reversibility and the transition temperature. Design criteria for implementing polymer buffer systems based on our results are discussed below for specific targeted properties 

If the desire is to move from high pH to low pH by lowering the temperature P NIPAM AA can promote large changes at a high buffer capacity as high as 0.1 M . However if much of this buffer capacity is utilized this transition is not reversible due to the creation of high concentrations of bound A anions. If a robust low temperature transition is desired that reversibly provides a maximum shift in pKvalues P NIPAM AA can provide the desired performance at lower buffer capacities. The important parameter that controls performance is the total anion content on the polymer rather than the degree of ionization HA A . This means is that for reversible systems the buffer capacity cannot be increased by increasing the AA content of the polymer as polymer performance undergoes significant changes once A exceeds around 0.5 of all monomer sites NIPAM AA . Regardless of the AA content of the P NIPAM AA system the maximum buffer capacity for a reversible system for a tethered polymer with an AA concentration of 0.1 M is limited to around 5 10M.

If the goal is to use the P NIPAM AA buffer to adjust pH values in the acidic pH regime the 90 10 system studied here will be completely functional provided that the degree of ionization i.e. the conjugate base content of the dissolved polymer is kept below 0.5 mole of all monomers in the polymer chain NIPAM AA i.e. while the mole fraction of AA in the polymer can be high and variable the A mole fraction must be kept low . If the goal is to adjust the pH within the basic regime as in Eq. 3 essentially all HA must be neutralized to form A which means that the total acid group content of the polymer HA A must be kept below 0.5 mole .

The higher the transition temperature is the more modest pKchanges with temperature will be. This is because high transition temperatures go hand in hand with more hydrophilic polymers that induce less of a change in local hydrophobicity above the transition temperature. This means that polymers having an LOST of 30 C. and below should be utilized if large changes in pKare desired. For the exemplary P NIPAM AA composition tested here pKchanges are less than 1 pKunit for compositions HA A that result in transition temperatures above 70 C.

The performance of reversible LOST pH buffers can be altered by deliberately adding more hydrophobic components to the system. The elastin system shows that 1 The slope of the transition temperature vs. A curve depends on what the acid is. For example the increase in transition temperature with A for aspartic acid is reported to be only two thirds of the slope seen for glutamic acid. 2 The addition of hydrophobic groups lowers the transition temperature. See J. C. Kim 121 1 15 1997 . Hydrophobic groups can be added to LOST polymers such as P NIPAM AA to offset some of the hydrophilicity increases imposed by buffer ionization.

The present invention has been described as programmable pH buffers that can be used for reversible COsequestration in water. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

