---

title: Method and apparatus for capacitance extraction
abstract: A method comprises processing a layout of an integrated circuit to determine one or more attributes of one or more components of the integrated circuit. The method also comprises extracting one or more process parameters from a process file associated with manufacturing the integrated circuit. The one or more process parameters are extracted from the process file based on a computation of one or more logic functions included in the process file. The computation is based on the one or more attributes. The method further comprises calculating a capacitance value between at least two components of the integrated circuit based on the one or more process parameters and a capacitance determination rule included in the process file. At least one of the one or more process parameters, the one or more logic functions, or the capacitance determination rule is editable based on a user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471738&OS=09471738&RS=09471738
owner: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09471738
owner_city: 
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20150205
---
Semiconductor devices are used in a variety of electronic applications such as personal computers cell phones digital cameras other electronic equipment or other suitable devices. Semiconductor devices comprise integrated circuits IC that include components such as transistors diodes resistors capacitors or other suitable circuit components. Some transistors are for example metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFET or fin field effect transistors FinFET . IC designers and manufacturers are challenged as IC s increase in complexity to produce IC s that function as intended.

The following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the provided subject matter. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. For example the formation of a first feature over or on a second feature in the description that follows may include embodiments in which the first and second features are formed in direct contact and may also include embodiments in which additional features may be formed between the first and second features such that the first and second features may not be in direct contact. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

An integrated circuit IC is often created by a design process starting with a software description e.g. in a programming language such as C or VHDL of a functionality of the circuit. The software description is then synthesized to interconnected gate level hardware elements. Next the hardware elements and the connections are geometrically laid out represented as placements of geometric shapes often referred to as an IC layout on a variety of layers to be fabricated on semiconductor wafers. ICs are often formed on semiconductor wafers by depositing many types of thin films of materials over the semiconductor wafers. The thin films are patterned to form the components of the IC such as transistors diodes resistors capacitors or other suitable circuit components. In general the geometric shapes are polygons of various dimensions representing conductive or non conductive features of the IC located in different layers over the semiconductor wafers. The IC layout is then subjected to a design rule check DRC and verified to be equivalent with the desired design schematic via a layout versus schematic LVS check.

As ICs increase in complexity and become smaller in physical size the components of the IC are closer in proximity to one another. Parasitic circuit elements that are often related to the closeness of various IC components to one another affect the performance of the IC. A resistance and capacitance RC extraction step also called as parasitic extraction is often performed following the DRC and LVS checks to extract electrical characteristics of the layout. The RC extraction step converts the layout back into representative electrical circuit elements and measures the actual shapes and spaces in the layers of the layout to predict the resulting electrical characteristics of a manufactured chip. The electrical characteristics that are commonly extracted from the layout include capacitance and resistance in the components of the IC and on various interconnections between the components which are generally referred to as nets. The nets electrically connect the components of the IC.

Electronic Design Automation EDA tools are often used in the IC design process to handle the complexity of the design and to perform the DRC LVS and RC extraction. Some EDA tools for RC extraction or RC extraction tools have issues with accuracy and speed. Some EDA tools have difficulties processing FinFET designs as well. An RC extraction tool often cooperates with an RC technology file to extract RC values from the layout of an IC. Then a post layout simulation is performed to verify circuit performance and or function. For example some post layout simulations model the parasitic capacitance inductance and resistance between components of the IC e.g. as represented by the interconnections in the IC so that some performance issues such as timing noise and reliability are able to be accurately assessed. The degree of accuracy of the post layout simulation is dependent on having an accurate RC technology file.

RC technology files are usually generated by EDA tools based on a simulation program with integrated circuit emphasis SPICE model file received from an IC foundry. The EDA tool calculates the parasitic capacitance values related to each interconnection by way of a field solver. The outcome of the field solver is saved as an RC technology file.

RC technology file generation is timing consuming. In addition for an IC foundry different clients often have slightly different interconnection structures. So IC foundries usually dedicate one RC technology file for each interconnection structure even if the differences between some interconnection structures are minimal. For example in multiple patterning technologies that use two or more masks to manufacture a layer of an IC some process behavior sensitivities are different in different technology nodes. Sometimes a metal pattern formed by a mask represented by a color A and a metal pattern formed by a mask represented by a color B sometimes have different metal thickness that have different sensitivity impacts on RC modeling. Because RC technology files are customized for IC foundries and individual RC technology files are dedicated for each interconnect structure for new process effects such as a change in color A and or color B metal thickness a new RC technology file is usually generated. The time required to generate a new RC technology file however slows down the IC design process as well as the IC production cycle.

Method is performed by at least one computer such as processor based system . In some embodiments the computer is an EDA tool. In some embodiments the computer is an RC tool. In other embodiments the computer by way of a processor is configured to execute an EDA tool and or an RC tool.

Method begins with step in which the computer processes a layout of an IC to determine one or more attributes of one or more components of the IC. Such components comprise for example transistors capacitors resistors diodes or other suitable electrical components of an IC. The IC layout defines the specific dimensions of the components of the IC and or sub components thereof such as gates wells diffusion areas oxidation regions capacitors contacts vias passivation openings isolation regions interconnects and or other device elements. The layout usually represents the components of the IC as polygons or other geometric shapes created by an EDA tool for example. The layout of the IC processed by the computer is a layout file.

The one or more attributes comprise a layout dimension of at least one of the one or more components. A layout dimension is for example a length a width or a thickness of a component of the IC a distance or spacing between two components of the IC a position of a component of the IC on a wafer or substrate or some other suitable dimension associated with a layout representation of a designed IC. In some embodiments the layout dimension is an ideal measurement of a component of the IC an ideal distance between two components of the IC or an ideal position description of a component of the IC. Layout dimensions are referred to herein by an identification tag  id for ease of discussion. For example a layout width is referred to herein as W id. In some embodiments layout dimensions are referred to by a different identification tag.

In some embodiments the one or more attributes comprise a mask pattern usable to manufacture the one or more components of the IC. For example if a layout of the IC calls for using one or two masks of a mask A and a mask B a layout pattern or arrangement of mask A and mask B in the IC layout is represented as AAA BBB ABA BAB or some other suitable combination of mask A and mask B.

In step the computer extracts one or more process parameters from a process file associated with manufacturing the IC. The process file comprises information such as fabrication processes associated with manufacturing an IC based on the IC layout structure profiles device or circuit defined capacitance inductance and resistance or other suitable process parameter information such as process control parameters and process attributes available during the fabrication process or any other suitable information needed to fabricate the IC.

In some embodiments the process file also comprises a process dimension of the at least one of the one or more components. A process dimension is for example an actual dimension such as a length width a thickness or a distance or spacing between two components of the IC based on a physical fabrication of the IC. For example a process dimension based on a fabricated IC is an actual silicon dimension or another dimension associated with a physical material by which one or more components of the IC is fabricated. As such in some embodiments the one or more process parameters comprise a process dimension such as a length a width a thickness or other suitable dimension spacing or other suitable process parameter such as process variation information associated with manufacturing each of the one or more components.

In some embodiments the process parameters comprise process variation information that defined how a process dimension e.g. a dimension of a physically manufactured component of an IC differs from a corresponding layout dimension. For example based on process variation information included in a process file an IC designer is able to understand whether a layout dimension of X will be fabricated at a foundry as X or if the foundry will fabricate the component having a dimension of X Y where Y is a variation introduced by the manufacturing process. This process variation information is useful when extracting capacitance values from a designed IC to simulate circuit performance in the design process. Process dimensions are referred to herein by an identification tag  si for ease of discussion. For example a process width is referred to herein as W si. In some embodiments process dimensions are referred to by a different identification tag.

In some embodiments at least one process parameter of the one or more process parameters is extracted based on a first parameter extraction rule or a second parameter extraction rule. The first parameter extraction rule instructs the computer to determine the at least one process parameter using a lookup table. The second process parameter extraction rule instructs the computer to determine the at least one process parameter using a process parameter determination function.

The lookup table for example comprises a set of searchable solutions that match a given data set. The process parameter determination function for example calculates an output using a given value as an input. The given value is for example an attribute of the one or more circuit components of the IC determined from the layout of the IC by the computer.

In some embodiments the given value is based on a user input. In some embodiments the one or more process parameters are extracted from the process file based on one or more logic functions. At least one of the one or more logic functions is included in the process file. In some embodiments the computation is based on at least one of the one or more attributes of the one or more components of the IC. Some example logic functions for determining a process width W si include for example 

In some embodiments the process file comprises an instruction to use the layout dimension for extracting at least one of the one or more process parameters or for calculating a capacitance value between at least two components of the IC. If the process file comprises a process dimension the process file further comprises an instruction to use the process dimension for extracting at least one of the one or more process parameters or for calculating the capacitance value. In some embodiments the instruction to use the process dimension is selectively useable in place of the instruction to use the layout dimension. For example based on a user input received by way of a user interface associated with the computer the process dimension or the layout dimension is selected to be used for calculating the capacitance value.

In some embodiments the process dimension is calculated based on the process variation information and the layout dimension. In some embodiments if a process dimension is different from a corresponding layout dimension then the process dimension is used for calculating a capacitance value.

In step the computer determines if the process file includes at least one process parameter logic function instruction rule table or index of capacitance values is in an encrypted format. If no then the process continues to step . If yes then the process continues to step .

In step the computer calculates a capacitance value between at least two components of the IC based on the process parameters and a capacitance determination rule included in the process file. In some embodiments the process file comprises a capacitance determination function and an index of capacitance values. The capacitance determination rule used to determine the capacitance value is one of a first capacitance determination rule or a second capacitance determination rule. The first capacitance determination rule instructs the computer to calculate the capacitance value using the capacitance determination function. The second capacitance determination rule instructs the computer to calculate the capacitance value based on the index of capacitance values. In some embodiments the first capacitance determination rule or the second capacitance determination rule is applied based on the computation of the one or more logic functions included in the process file. The index of capacitance values for example comprises a set of searchable solutions that match a given data set. A process parameter determination function for example calculates an output using a given value as an input.

In some embodiments to determine the given data set used to search the index of capacitance values the computer matches a mask pattern with a mask pattern having assigned capacitance values in the index of capacitance values. Alternatively the computer compares layout or process dimensions of the component that are based on the layout file or the process file with layout or process dimensions of a similar component that is stored in the index of capacitance values to find usable dimensions for the given data set. If a similar component is found the layout or process dimensions of the similar component are usable by the computer to determine a pre calculated capacitance value for the components of the IC.

In some embodiments the capacitance determination rule used to determine the capacitance value instructs the computer to apply a capacitance determination method such as a one dimensional 1D method a two dimensional 2D method a three dimensional 3D method a quasi three dimensional 2.5D method or another suitable method. A 1D capacitance determination method calculates the capacitance based on a linear formula in a single direction e.g. a length direction. A 2D capacitance determination method calculates the capacitance based on a planar area of the components which is a more accurate geometry modeling and numerical techniques than a 1D method. The 2D method ignores three dimensional details and assumes that the geometries of the components are uniform in one dimension. The 2.5D capacitance extraction method is based on a 2D scanning approach. In the 2.5D method three dimensional structures are cut into 2D slides along a scanning direction. Once the 2D cross sections are formed the 2D capacitance on each cross section is determined. Then the corresponding 2.5D or quasi 3D capacitance is constructed based on the 2D cross section capacitance information. The 3D capacitance determination method is based on integral equations or differential equations using full three dimensional geometry information that describes the IC in accordance with the attributes extracted from the layout file or the process file for example.

One or more of the process parameters the logic functions or the capacitance determination rule comprises computer code readable by the computer and or an RC tool executed by the computer. In some embodiments the computer code is readable by a RC tool external to the computer. In some embodiments the computer readable code comprises one or more of logic operations such as IF THEN ELSEIF AND OR or an other suitable operator or logic operation. At least one of the one or more process parameters the one or more logic functions or the capacitance determination rule is selectively editable based on a user input received by way of a user interface associated with the computer. User interaction with the user interface to edit one or more of the process parameters logic functions or capacitance determination rules for example by way of editing the computer readable code makes the process file and or a RC technology file generated based on the layout of the IC and or the process file programmable.

If the computer determines in step that at least one of the process parameters logic functions instructions rules tables or index of capacitance values is in an encrypted format method proceeds to step before step . In some embodiments at least one of the process parameters logic functions instructions or rules used for calculating the capacitance value is in an encrypted format in a user defined file. In some embodiments the user defined file is an executable file that when executed by the computer outputs a process parameter logic function instruction a rule or some other output result usable by the computer to extract a process parameter calculate the capacitance value or generate the netlist. In some embodiments the user defined file comprises the index of capacitance values in an encrypted format and the calculated capacitance value is extracted from the encrypted index of capacitance values. In some embodiments the computer generates the index of capacitance values based on the process parameters logic functions instructions and or rules included in the user defined file.

In step the computer generates the index of capacitance values based on the at least one encrypted process parameter or the output result of the executable file. The capacitance determination rule used in step to determine the capacitance value accordingly instructs the computer to calculate the capacitance value based on the index of capacitance values included in the user defined file. In some embodiments if the index of capacitance values remains in an encrypted format and the capacitance value is calculated based on the output result of the executable file then the capacitance value is calculated based on a capacitance determination function.

In some embodiments at least one of the logic functions used for extracting at least one of the one or more process parameters is in an encrypted format. If one or more process parameters or one or more logic functions are in an encrypted format an IC designer is able to keep certain process or IC design information confidential from an IC foundry for example. Some example logic functions that are optionally included in the user defined file include function of density FoD logic functions function of thickness FoT logic functions table of thickness ToT logic functions that instruct the computer to use a lookup table for determining an output of the ToT function or other suitable logic functions.

In some embodiments one or more of the above example logic functions is referred to as being included in the process file or in the user defined file are included in the process file in an unencrypted format. In some embodiments one or more of the above example logic functions referred to as being included in the process file or in the user defined file are included in the user defined file in an encrypted format. In some embodiments one or more of the process file or the user defined file include different logic functions that are either included in the process file or the user defined file as default functions or based on a user input. For example in some embodiments a different process parameter is of interest to an IC designer so the IC designer modifies the process file to include a computer readable logic function that is used to determine the thickness of a component of the IC based on a process width of the component a location of the component a mask pattern used to make the component and an etch depth. As such the logic functions rules and instructions included in the process file are able to take any form yield any desired result and be based on any input values for obtaining the desired result so long as the RC tool is capable of reading and processing the logic function as written.

In step the computer generates the RC technology file based on the one or more attributes extracted from the layout of the IC and or the one or more process parameters extracted from the process file. The generated RC technology file is a programmable RC technology file because one or more of the process parameters logic function or capacitance determination rules is selectively editable by a user input. The generated RC technology file comprises one or more of a process parameter of the one or more process parameters or the calculated capacitance value.

In step the computer generates a netlist describing one or more connections between the at least two components of the integrated circuit. The generated netlist comprises the capacitance value. In some embodiments the capacitance value included in the netlist is based on the generated RC technology file. In some embodiments a netlist of components of another IC is generated based on the RC technology file generated in step . The RC technology file generated in step is optionally stored among other RC technology files in a memory associated with the computer. The capacitance values to be included in the netlist generated in step are then extracted from a stored RC technology file for inclusion in the netlist.

In some embodiments the computer is configured to generate instructions that are usable for forming a mask or for manufacturing the IC based on the netlist generated in step .

By providing the capability of modifying the process file the RC technology file generated based on the process file is programmable. The programmable RC technology file accordingly is more readily adaptable to account for changes in an IC design and or changes in process relayed to the IC designer by a foundry. This in turn speeds the generation of RC technology files which expedites the IC design and production cycle.

Process file is editable by way of a computer such as processor based system . In some embodiments the computer is an EDA tool. In some embodiments the computer is a RC tool. In other embodiments the computer by way of a processor is configured to execute an EDA tool and or a RC tool.

Process file comprises a set of logic functions that includes logic functions that are usable to determine a process parameter of a component of the IC. Each of the logic functions is associated with a process parameter extraction rule 

In this example the determined process parameter is the thickness of a component of the IC. As such the logic functions included in the set of logic functions include function of thickness FoT process parameter extraction rules. For example FoT AAA is a process parameter extraction rule related to determining a thickness of a component based on a mask pattern AAA. Similarly the process file optionally comprises one or more other logic functions or sets of logic functions that are directed to determining other process parameters such as a width of the component via function of width FoW process parameter extraction rules. For example FoW AAA is process parameter extraction rule related to determining a width of the component based on a mask pattern AAA. In some embodiments process file comprises one or more logic functions that are used to determine other process parameters such as length thickness density position or other suitable parameter used to fabricate one or more components of the IC. In some embodiments one or more of the determined process parameters are used to determine other process parameters using one or more logic functions. For example some process files are configured to use a determined process parameter such as the thickness to determine the other process parameters using one or more other logic functions.

The logic functions are if then statements that are computed based on a determined mask pattern attribute extracted from the layout of the IC. For example if a mask pattern used to manufacture a designed IC is determined to be AAA then a processing of logic function by the computer yields that process parameter extraction rule e.g. FoT AAA is to be used to determine the thickness of the component of the IC.

Process file includes instructions and that instruct the computer whether to use a layout dimension e.g. W id or a process dimension e.g. W si for determining the thickness in this example. In process profile layout dimensions W id and D id are equal to process dimensions W si and D si. Accordingly instructions and instruct the computer to use the layout dimensions W id and D id to determine the thickness of the component of the IC.

FoT AAA is a process parameter extraction rule that instructs the computer to determine the thickness of the component of the IC using a process parameter determination function and an index of layout dimensions id. The index of layout dimensions is for example a searchable table that comprises thickness values that correspond with an output of the process parameter determination function and the layout dimensions W id and D id. That is the computer determines the thickness of the component of the IC by using the output of the process parameter determination function and the layout dimensions W id and D id as search criteria. In some embodiments process parameter extraction rule FoT AAA for example is used to calculate the thickness of the component of the IC based on an algorithm that uses the attributes extracted from the layout of the IC and the layout dimensions W id and D id. In some embodiments an output of process parameter extraction rule FoT AAA is based on the layout dimensions W id and D id and the output of the process parameter extraction rule FoT AAA is used to search the index of layout dimensions W id and D id to determine the thickness of the component of the IC.

Process file in this example includes all of the features included in process file such as a set of logic functions that includes logic functions process parameter extraction rules and instructions and . Process file differs from process file in that the process parameter extraction rules are edited to be table based rather than function based. As such the logic functions included in the set of logic functions include table of thickness ToT process parameter extraction rules. For example ToT AAA is a process parameter extraction rule related to determining a thickness of a component based on mask pattern AAA. Similarly the process file optionally comprises one or more other logic functions or sets of logic functions that are directed to determining other process parameters such as a width of the component via table of width ToW process parameter extraction rules. For example ToW AAA is process parameter extraction rule related to determining a width of the component based on mask pattern AAA. 

In process file process parameter extraction rule instructs the computer to determine the thickness of the component of the IC using a lookup table that matches the mask pattern AAA with the layout dimensions W id and D id using the mask pattern AAA and the layout dimensions W id and D id as search criteria. In some embodiments some process files are configured to use a determined process parameter such as the thickness to determine the other process parameters using one or more other lookup tables.

In some embodiments if the instruction to use the layout dimensions and instruct the computer to use process dimensions W si and D si for example then process parameter extraction rules would use an index of process dimensions  si instead of layout dimensions  id.

According to various embodiments one or more of the logic functions or another logic function is editable by way of a user interface associated with the computer. In some embodiments one or more of the process parameter extraction rules or another process parameter extraction rule is editable by way of the user interface associated with the computer. In some embodiments one or more of the instructions to use a layout dimension  id or a process dimension  si is editable by way of the user interface associated with the computer. In some embodiments one or more of the process parameter determination function or another process parameter determination function is editable by way of the user interface associated with the computer. Process file or is capable of comprising any quantity of default logic functions process parameter extraction rules instructions or other computer readable code that is capable of being edited by a user. Similarly the process file or in some embodiments comprises a combination of FoT logic functions and ToT logic functions.

In this example embodiment process file includes a set of logic functions that includes process parameter extraction rules that are function based like process parameter extraction rules of process file . The logic functions included in the set of logic functions and the process parameter extraction rules are used to determine one or more process parameters based on a first determined process parameter such as a determined thickness based on a determined mask color pattern.

Process file includes a set of logic functions that includes process parameter extraction rules that are table based like process parameter extraction rules of process file . The logic functions included in the set of logic functions and the process parameter extraction rules are used to determine one or more process parameters based on a first determined process parameter such as a determined thickness of the component of the IC.

For example a thickness of a conductor M is determined using process file and the thickness is based on a determined mask pattern AAA see then other process parameters such as a density width or polynomial based thickness variation are determined based on the determined thickness using the process parameter extraction rules which are optionally editable by a user input included in the process file . Alternatively if a thickness of a conductor M is determined using process file and the thickness is based on a determined mask pattern AAA see then other process parameters such as a density width or table based thickness variation are determined based on the determined thickness using the process parameter extraction rules which are optionally editable by a user input included in the process file

The EDA API is configured to receive process files and or or process files and or and uses the logic functions process parameter extraction rules process parameters and instructions included therein to determine one or more process parameters and to ultimately calculate a capacitance value C between components and of the IC.

Based on a processing of the received process files the EDA API generates the RC technology file . The RC technology file at least comprises the calculated capacitance value C between components and of the IC. In some embodiments the RC technology file additionally comprises one or more process parameters such as the determined width or the determined thickness of the components and of the IC. In this example at least some of the determined process parameters are based on the determined thickness of the components of the IC which is based on the determined mask pattern extracted from the layout of the IC. As such the capacitance C is based on the determined thickness of the components of the IC which is based on the determined mask pattern. For example if a component is formed using a mask pattern AAA the thickness of the component is calculated using FoT AAA or ToT AAA and capacitance C is calculated using the determined component thickness.

For example if the computer determines that the mask pattern is ABA logic function yields that process parameter extraction rule should be used to determine the width of the component of the IC. Then the computer determines if the component is in a first region of the IC as instructed in process parameter extraction rule FoW ABA i.e. process parameter extraction rule the details of which are indicated by reference number . If an attribute extracted from the layout of the IC indicates that the component is in region then sub rule is used to determine the width of the component. If an attribute determined from the layout of the IC indicates that the component is not in region then sub rule is used to determine the width of the component.

If sub rule is used to determine the width of the component then the instruction indicates that process width W si and layout width W id are equal and instruction indicates that process spacing S si and layout spacing S id are different. As such instructions and instruct the computer to use process dimensions  si in subsequent operations used to determine another process parameter or the capacitance value. Alternatively instructions and instruct the computer to modify layout dimensions  id based on the difference between the spacing S si and S id and the computer uses the layout dimensions  id in subsequent operations.

If sub rule is used to determine the width of the component then instructions and indicate that process width W si and layout width W id are equal and spacing S si and layout spacing S id are equal. As such instructions and instruct the computer to use layout dimensions  id in subsequent operations.

One or more of the logic functions the process parameter extraction rules the sub rules the instructions or process parameters such as the process dimensions  si are editable based on a user input. For example if an IC design is changed and a process variation occurs based on the design change the relationship between the process dimensions  si and the layout dimensions  id is optionally edited to improve a correlation between the layout dimensions  id and the process dimensions  si for increasing the accuracy of the capacitance value determination or other process parameter determination. In some embodiments the process file is edited to include table based logic functions such as those discussed with respect to process file or the process file includes table based logic functions as a default.

In some embodiments the capacitance value C is calculated based on one or more process parameters that are determined based on the determined width of the component of the IC. For example a component thickness W aba  is calculated by FoW ABA  or ToW ABA  i.e. a table based function for determining the width of the component if the mask color pattern is ABA and the component is determined to be in region . As such if a RC technology file such as RC technology file that includes a capacitance value C which is based on the determined width then the capacitance value C is calculated using component width W aba  in this example.

Process file is edited by way of a computer such as processor based system . In some embodiments the computer is an EDA tool. In some embodiments the computer is a RC tool. In other embodiments the computer by way of a processor is configured to execute an EDA tool and or a RC tool.

Process file includes a logic function which is a function of width FoW logic function that is used by the computer to determine the width of a component of the IC and a spacing between two components of the IC. Process file is a default process file. If a design specification of the IC is changed the process file is optionally editable by way of a user input to include logic functions that consider whether a certain layer in the IC exists. For example process file includes a logic function that provides a process parameter determination rule that the computer uses to compare whether and if the layer exists and based on the comparison a set of instructions or a set of instructions is used for determining the width and the spacing. For example if a neighboring layer exists then the width used by the computer for subsequent operations is W id and the spacing used by the computer for subsequent operations is a predefined spacing S Neighbor Layer id. If the neighboring layer does not exist then the width is the layout width W id and the spacing is the layout spacing S id. In some embodiments the edited logic function includes an instruction that specifies that the spacing S Neighbor Layer id is applicable in one of an X direction or a Y direction.

In some embodiments instead of a function of width FoW function the process file comprises a table of width ToW function such as ToW Neighbor Layer PO which is used by the computer to search a table for one or more width spacing or etch values for use by the computer in a subsequent operation.

Method is performed by a computer such as processor based system . In some embodiments the computer is an EDA tool. In some embodiments the computer is a RC tool. In other embodiments the computer by way of a processor is configured to execute an EDA tool and or a RC tool.

RC tool programmable interface is associated with the computer. RC tool programmable interface is configured to receive a user input to edit and or finalize a process file received by the RC tool programmable interface and to generate a finalized process file . As such in step S RC tool programmable interface generates finalized process file based on a user input received by way of a user interface associated with the computer. Process file is similar to process file .

In step S the computer then generates a RC technology file based on the logic functions rules and instructions included in the finalized process file . RC technology file is similar to RC technology file .

The computer generates a plurality of RC technology files that each comprise capacitance values for various combinations of layout dimensions process dimensions process parameters and or other component attributes such as mask patterns that are included in an index defined in the process file or the finalized process file . The RC technology files of the plurality of RC technology files are stored in the table of RC technology files . In some embodiments the capacitance values included in the RC technology files are extracted by the computer in a subsequent process.

In some embodiments one or more of the RC technology files includes capacitance values that are based on one or more attributes or process parameters that are provided in a layout of the IC process file or that are provided to the RC tool programmable interface by way of a user input.

Method is performed by a computer such as processor based system . In some embodiments the computer is an EDA tool. In some embodiments the computer is a RC tool. In other embodiments the computer by way of a processor is configured to execute an EDA tool and or a RC tool.

In step S the computer processes a layout file of an IC to determine one or more attributes of the components and of the IC. The processing of layout file yields attributes that include a layout width w of component a layout width w of component and a spacing S between component and component .

In step S the computer executes the RC tool programmable interface to process a finalized process file to determine one or more process parameters that include a process width w of component a process width w of component and a process spacing S between component and component based on the logic functions rules and instructions included in finalized process file . Finalized process file is similar to finalized process file generated in .

In step S the computer searches the table of RC technology files to extract a corresponding capacitance value from the table of RC technology files based on the process parameters by using the process parameters as search criteria.

In step S the computer generates a netlist that describes one or more connections between component and component and comprises the extracted capacitance value.

In some embodiments the computer is configured to generate instructions that are usable for forming a mask or for manufacturing the IC based on the netlist generated in step S.

Method is performed by a computer such as processor based system . In some embodiments the computer is an EDA tool. In some embodiments the computer is a RC tool. In other embodiments the computer by way of a processor is configured to execute an EDA tool and or a RC tool.

RC tool programmable interface is similar to RC tool programmable interface discussed in . RC tool programmable interface is configured to receive a user input to edit and or finalize a process file received by the RC tool programmable interface . In some embodiments RC tool programmable interface is configured to receive and decrypt or execute a user defined file that comprises one or more process parameters logic functions or instructions in an encrypted format. In some embodiments RC tool programmable interface is configured to generate a finalized process file based on the process file and the user defined file . As such in step S RC tool programmable interface generates finalized process file based on a user input received by way of a user interface associated with the computer and based on an output of the user defined file . Process file is similar to process file .

In step S the computer then generates a RC technology file based on the process parameters logic functions rules and instructions included in the finalized process file . RC technology file is similar to RC technology file .

The computer generates a plurality of RC technology files that each comprise capacitance values for various combinations of layout dimensions process dimensions process parameters and or other component attributes such as mask patterns that are included in an index defined in the process file the user defined file or the finalized process file . The RC technology files of the plurality of RC technology files are stored in the table of RC technology files . In some embodiments the capacitance values included in the RC technology files are extracted by the computer in a subsequent process.

In some embodiments one or more of the RC technology files includes capacitance values that are based on one or more attributes or process parameters that are provided in a layout of the IC process file user defined file or that are provided to the RC tool programmable interface by way of a user input.

Method is performed by a computer such as processor based system . In some embodiments the computer is an EDA tool. In some embodiments the computer is a RC tool. In other embodiments the computer by way of a processor is configured to execute an EDA tool and or a RC tool. The table of RC technology files is similar to the table of RC technology file generated in .

In step S the computer processes a layout file of an IC to determine one or more attributes of the components and of the IC. The processing of layout file yields attributes that include a layout width w of component a layout width w of component and a spacing S between component and component .

In step S the computer executes the RC tool programmable interface to decrypt or execute a user defined file that comprises one or more process parameters logic functions or instructions in an encrypted format and to modify a finalized process file based on an output of the user defined file . An output of the user defined file is based on one or more of the attributes . Finalized process file is similar to finalized process file generated in but is modified to account for process parameters logic functions instructions or rules that are included in the user defined file . As such in step S the RC tool programmable interface executes the modified finalized process file to determine one or more process parameters that include a process width w of component a process width w of component and a process spacing S between component and component based on the logic functions rules and instructions included in finalized process file .

In step S the computer searches the table of RC technology files to extract a corresponding capacitance value from the table of RC technology files based on the process parameters by using the process parameters as search criteria.

In step S the computer generates a netlist that describes one or more connections between component and component and comprises the extracted capacitance value.

In some embodiments the computer is configured to generate instructions that are usable for forming a mask or for manufacturing the IC based on the netlist generated in step S.

Processor based system is programmable to generate a programmable RC technology file and or generate a netlist based on a programmable RC technology file as described herein and includes for example bus processor and memory components.

In some embodiments the processor based system is implemented as a single system on a chip. Processor based system or a portion thereof constitutes a mechanism for designing a memory circuit. In some embodiments the processor based system includes a communication mechanism such as bus for transferring information and or instructions among the components of the processor based system . Processor is connected to the bus to obtain instructions for execution and process information stored in for example the memory . In some embodiments the processor is also accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC is configurable to perform specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the functions described herein optionally include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one or more embodiments the processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by a set of instructions stored in memory related to generating a programmable RC technology file and or generate a netlist based on a programmable RC technology file. The execution of the instructions causes the processor to perform specified functions.

The processor and accompanying components are connected to the memory via the bus . The memory includes one or more of dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the steps described herein to generate a programmable RC technology file and or generate a netlist based on a programmable RC technology file. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the steps.

In one or more embodiments the memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for generating a programmable RC technology file and or generate a netlist based on a programmable RC technology file. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed. RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. In various embodiments the memory is a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed. Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. In some embodiments the memory is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when power supplied to the memory is turned off.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium takes many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media . Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media include for example dynamic memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape another magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD another optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets another physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory another memory chip or cartridge or another medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to a computer readable medium.

An aspect of this description relates to a method that comprises processing a layout of an integrated circuit to determine one or more attributes of one or more components of the integrated circuit. The method also comprises extracting one or more process parameters from a process file associated with manufacturing the integrated circuit. The one or more process parameters are extracted from the process file based on a computation of one or more logic functions. At least one of the one or more logic functions is included in the process file. The computation is based on the one or more attributes. The method further comprises calculating a capacitance value between at least two components of the integrated circuit based on the one or more process parameters and a capacitance determination rule included in the process file. At least one of the one or more process parameters the one or more logic functions or the capacitance determination rule is editable based on a user input. At least one of the above steps is performed by a hardware computer.

Another aspect of this description relates to method of generating a netlist describing an integrated circuit. The method comprises processing a layout of an integrated circuit to determine one or more attributes of one or more components of the integrated circuit. The method also comprises extracting a first process parameter from a process file associated with manufacturing the integrated circuit. The first process parameter is extracted from the process file based on a computation of a first logic function included in the process file. The computation is based on the one or more attributes. The method further comprises executing an encrypted data file having a second process parameter associated with manufacturing the integrated circuit. The second process parameter is encrypted. The method additionally comprises calculating a capacitance value between at least two components of the integrated circuit using an output of the executed encrypted data file based on the second process parameter. The method also comprises generating a netlist describing one or more connections between the one or more components. The netlist comprises the capacitance value. At least one of the above steps is performed by a hardware computer.

A further aspect of this description relates to a method of generating a resistance capacitance technology file. The method comprises processing a layout of an integrated circuit to determine one or more attributes of one or more components of the integrated circuit. The method also comprises extracting a first process parameter from a process file associated with manufacturing an integrated circuit. The first process parameter is extracted from the process file based on a computation of a first logic function included in the process file. The computation is based on the one or more attributes. The method further comprises adding a second process parameter to the process file by way of a user input. The second process parameter is readable by a resistance capacitance tool. The method additionally comprises executing an encrypted data file having a third process parameter associated with manufacturing the integrated circuit. The third process parameter is encrypted. The method also comprises calculating a capacitance value between at least two components of the integrated circuit using an output of the executed encrypted data file based on the third process parameter and the first process parameter. The method further comprises generating the resistance capacitance technology file. The resistance capacitance technology file comprises the first process parameter the second process parameter the third process parameter and the capacitance value. At least one of the above steps is performed by a hardware computer.

The foregoing outlines features of several embodiments so that those skilled in the art may better understand the aspects of the present disclosure. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that they may readily use the present disclosure as a basis for designing or modifying other processes and structures for carrying out the same purposes and or achieving the same advantages of the embodiments introduced herein. Those skilled in the art should also realize that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

