---

title: Management of exterior temperatures encountered by user of a portable electronic device in response to an inferred user contact with the portable electronic device
abstract: Described embodiments include a portable electronic device. The device includes a shell housing components of the portable electronic device having a heat-generating component. The device includes a heat-rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell. The heat-rejection element is configured to reject heat received from the heat-generating component into an environment in thermal contact with the heat-rejection element. The device includes a controllable thermal coupler configured to regulate heat transfer to the heat-rejection element. The device includes an activity monitor configured to infer a user touch to the shell in response to a detected activity of the portable electronic device. The device includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat-rejection element in response to the inferred user touch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09320174&OS=09320174&RS=09320174
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09320174
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150107
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application is related to and or claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

The present application constitutes a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 725 entitled MANAGEMENT OF EXTERIOR TEMPERATURES ENCOUNTERED BY USER OF A PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE IN RESPONSE TO AN INFERRED USER CONTACT WITH THE PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE naming Philip L. Barnes Hon Wah Chin Howard L. Davidson Kimberly D. A. Hallman Roderick A. Hyde Muriel Y. Ishikawa Jordin T. Kare Brian Lee Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord Craig J. Mundie Nathan P. Myhrvold Nicholas F. Pasch Eric D. Rudder Clarence T. Tegreene Marc Tremblay David B. Tuckerman Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 13 Mar. 2013.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 597 entitled MANAGEMENT OF EXTERIOR TEMPERATURES ENCOUNTERED BY USER OF A PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE naming Philip L. Barnes Hon Wah Chin Howard L. Davidson Kimberly D. A. Hallman Roderick A. Hyde Muriel Y. Ishikawa Jordin T. Kare Brian Lee Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord Craig J. Mundie Nathan P. Myhrvold Nicholas F. Pasch Eric D. Rudder Clarence T. Tegreene Marc Tremblay David B. Tuckerman Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 13 Mar. 2013 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 791 entitled MANAGEMENT OF EXTERIOR TEMPERATURES ENCOUNTERED BY USER OF A PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE USING MULTIPLE HEAT REJECTION ELEMENTS naming Philip L. Barnes Hon Wah Chin Howard L. Davidson Kimberly D. A. Hallman Roderick A. Hyde Muriel Y. Ishikawa Jordin T. Kare Brian Lee Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord Craig J. Mundie Nathan P. Myhrvold Nicholas F. Pasch Eric D. Rudder Clarence T. Tegreene Marc Tremblay David B. Tuckerman Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 13 Mar. 2013 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 888 entitled MANAGEMENT OF EXTERIOR TEMPERATURES ENCOUNTERED BY USER OF A PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE BY REDUCING HEAT GENERATION BY A COMPONENT naming Philip L. Barnes Hon Wah Chin Howard L. Davidson Kimberly D. A. Hallman Roderick A. Hyde Muriel Y. Ishikawa Jordin T. Kare Brian Lee Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord Craig J. Mundie Nathan P. Myhrvold Nicholas F. Pasch Eric D. Rudder Clarence T. Tegreene Marc Tremblay David B. Tuckerman Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 13 Mar. 2013 is related to the present application.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The USPTO further has provided forms for the Application Data Sheet which allow automatic loading of bibliographic data but which require identification of each application as a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant has provided designation s of a relationship between the present application and its parent application s as set forth above and in any ADS filed in this application but expressly points out that such designation s are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a portable electronic device. The portable electronic device includes a shell housing components of the portable electronic device and a heat generating component of the portable electronic device. The portable electronic device includes a heat rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell. The heat rejection element is configured to reject heat received from the heat generating component into an environment in thermal contact with the heat rejection element. The portable electronic device includes a controllable thermal coupler configured to regulate heat transfer to the heat rejection element. The portable electronic device includes an activity monitor configured to infer a user touch to the shell in response to a detected activity of the portable electronic device. The portable electronic device includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat rejection element in response to the inferred user touch.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method of limiting exterior shell temperatures encountered by a user of a portable electronic device. The method includes inferring a user touch to the shell in response to a detected user initiated or user imparted activity of the portable electronic device. The method includes regulating a heat transfer from a heat generating component of the portable electronic device to a heat rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell in response to the inferred user touch. The heat rejection element is configured to reject heat into an environment external to the shell. In an embodiment the method includes selecting a heat rejection strategy responsive to the inferred user touch to the shell.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system for limiting exterior shell temperatures encountered by a user of a portable electronic device. The system includes means for inferring a user touch to a shell in response to a detected user initiated or user imparted activity of a portable electronic device. The system includes means for selecting a heat rejection strategy responsive to the inferred user touch to the shell. The system includes means for regulating in accordance with the selected heat rejection strategy heat transfer from a heat generating component of the portable electronic device to a heat rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various implementations by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred implementation will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware implementation alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible implementations by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any implementation to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the implementation will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures suitable to implement an operation. Electronic circuitry for example may manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media hold or transmit a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example this may manifest as an update or other modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or other programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or otherwise invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of any functional operations described below. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed directly as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example C or other code sequences can be compiled directly or otherwise implemented in high level descriptor languages e.g. a logic synthesizable language a hardware description language a hardware design simulation and or other such similar mode s of expression . Alternatively or additionally some or all of the logical expression may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description or other circuitry model before physical implementation in hardware especially for basic operations or timing critical applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other common structures in light of these teachings.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem module communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will also recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will further recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into an image processing system. A typical image processing system may generally include one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing lens position and or velocity control motors for moving distorting lenses to give desired focuses . An image processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in digital still systems and or digital motion systems.

Those skilled in the art will likewise recognize that at least some of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through one or more input interfaces. An input interface may include a touch sensitive screen or display surface or one or more switches or buttons with suitable input detection circuitry. A touch sensitive screen or display surface is illustrated as a touch sensitive display and screen input detector . One or more switches or buttons are illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a hardware button interface . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface or a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are examples and other components and means of establishing communication links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information a camera capturing and saving an image or communicating with an implantable medical apparatus.

In certain instances one or more elements of the thin computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the thin computing device.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media. By way of further example and not of limitation computer readable media may include a communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communication media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processor . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive screen or display surface joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing a communication link between the computers may be used.

In certain instances one or more elements of the computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the computing device.

The portable electronic device includes a shell housing the components of portable electronic device and a heat generating component generating heat . The portable electronic device includes a heat rejection element located at a first exterior surface of the shell. The heat rejecting element is configured to reject heat received from the heat generating component into an environment in thermal contact with the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the environment includes an external or ambient environment in thermal contact with the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the environment includes an external or ambient environment in thermal contact with the heat rejection element and the shell. The portable electronic device includes a controllable thermal coupler configured to regulate heat transfer to the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a control element configured to physically or mechanically accomplish the regulation of heat transfer illustrated by heat and heat transferring or flowing from the heat generating component to the heat rejection element. The portable electronic device includes a first proximity sensor configured to determine a location of a user touch to the shell relative to the location of the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the user touch may involve the hand of the user e.g. fingers palm . In an embodiment the user touch may involve other portions of the user s body or clothing e.g. when the device is held on a lap or is inside a pocket . The first proximity sensor has a proximity to the heat rejection element. The portable electronic device includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat rejection element in response to the determined location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the thermal manager may be implemented using electronic circuitry a special purpose device electro mechanical device or system or control structure suitable to implement the described configuration or operability. Alternatively or additionally in some variants of the thermal manager an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. In an embodiment the portable electronic device includes a second exterior surface .

For example in use heat transfer to the heat rejection element is controlled by or turned off by the controllable thermal coupler in response to the location of the user touch being close to or within a zone of possible heat discomfort relative of the heat rejection element. This is anticipated to limit user exposure to a hot or uncomfortably warm heat rejection element. What is too close or within a zone of possible heat discomfort relative of the heat rejection element is expected to vary depending on the configuration or features of the particular portable electronic device and possibly the user. In the example illustrated by the user touch is on the same side of the portable electronic device as the heat rejection element. This may be determined by the thermal manager as too close to the heat rejection element based on the configuration or features of the particular portable electronic device and accordingly heat transfer to the heat rejection element reduced or terminated. For example in use heat transfer to the heat rejection element is initiated or continued by controllable thermal coupler in response to the location of the user touch being distant from or outside a zone of possible heat discomfort relative from the heat rejection element. This is anticipated to provide heat rejection and allow cooling of the portable electronic device without burning or causing heat discomfort.

In an embodiment the portable electronic device may be implemented using the thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the portable electronic device may be implemented using the general computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the portable electronic device includes a cell phone or a smart phone. In an embodiment the portable electronic device includes a tablet laptop computer or music player. In an embodiment the shell includes a hand holdable shell. In an embodiment the shell includes a cover substantially enclosing the portable electronic device having the heat generating component. In an embodiment the shell includes a cover that in combination with a display screen that at least substantially encloses a portable electronic device having a heat generating component. In an embodiment the heat generating component includes a CPU. In an embodiment the heat generating component includes a battery. In an embodiment the heat generating component creates a variable or varying heat output during an operational cycle.

In an embodiment the heat rejection element is disposed on or occupies an exterior portion of the shell . In an embodiment the heat rejection element is disposed on or occupies an exterior portion of the shell at a first location. In an embodiment the heat rejection element includes an opening through the shell which is exposed to an external or ambient environment in thermal contact with the shell. In an embodiment the heat rejection element is integrated with an exterior portion of the shell. In an embodiment the heat rejection element is configured to reject heat received from the heat generating component into ambient air environment in thermal contact with the shell. For example an ambient air environment may include air surrounding or proximate to the shell. In an embodiment the portable electronic device includes another heat rejection element .

In an embodiment the heat rejection element is configured to reject heat received from the heat generating component into a heat sinkable external object in thermal contact with the shell . For example a heat sinkable external object may include a table top counter top or dashboard. illustrates an embodiment where the heat rejection element of includes a 6 4 array of heat rejection elements . Heat transfer to at least two heat rejection elements of the array of heat rejection elements is separately controllable by the controllable thermal coupler . For example the array may be located on a backside of the portable computing device . illustrates an embodiment where all of the heat rejection elements of the array are receiving heat from the heat rejecting component and rejecting the received heat into the environment . For example illustrates a user touch to a portion of the surface area occupied by four heat rejection elements of the array. In this example the thermal manager is configured to operate the controllable thermal coupler to reduce or terminate heat transfer to the four heat rejection elements of the array illustrated by the four blackened heat rejection elements in . In an embodiment at least two heat rejection elements of the array of heat rejection elements are separately controllable by the controllable thermal coupler. In an embodiment at least two heat rejection elements of the array of heat rejection elements are separately controllable by the controllable thermal coupler.

In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is configured to separately transfer heat to a plurality of different spatial locations of the heat rejection element . For example the heat rejection element may include a condenser portion of a heat pipe or heat plate running substantially parallel to a portion of shell and interior of the shell. The heat rejection element includes a plurality of controllable thermal contacts disposed along the length or area of the heat pipe and configured to be separately controlled in response to the determined location of the user touch relative to the heat rejection element. For example this embodiment may be located on a back portion of the shell.

Returning to in an embodiment the heat rejection element includes a piezoelectric fan assembly. An example of a piezoelectric fan assembly is described in U.S. Pat. App. No. 20040253130 I. Sauciuc et al. . In an embodiment the heat rejection element includes controllable fin assembly. For example the controllable fin assembly may include fins having a controllable orientation or extension. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable microchannel heat exchanger having a heat rejection element. In an embodiment the controllable microchannel heat exchanger includes a microchanneled heat sink having a control valve configured to regulate flow of a working fluid through the microchannels. An example of a controllable microchannel heat exchanger is described in in U.S. Pat. App. No. 20050117300 R. Prasher et al. .

In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable pump or valve illustrated by the control element configured to regulate transfer of a working fluid flowing between a heat collecting element and the heat rejection element . In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable thermal contact illustrated by the control element between the heat rejection element and the heat generating component. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable thermally conductive solid. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable thermally conductive fluid. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable phase change material. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact includes a controllable mechanical contact illustrated by the control element between the heat rejection element and the heat generating component. For example the controllable mechanical contact may include a spring a bimorph or a piezoelectric activated bridging device. For example the controllable thermal contact may include a bridging fluid. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is further configured to control flow of a working fluid through the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is further configured to insert into or remove a working fluid from the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is further configured to control a thermally conductive physical contact between the heat rejection element and the heat generating component. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable pump or valve configured to regulate transfer of a flowing working fluid. In an embodiment the heat rejection element is a component of the controllable thermal coupler.

In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler further includes a heat collecting element configured to absorb heat generated by the heat generating component . In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable pump or valve illustrated by the control element configured to regulate transfer of a working fluid flowing between the heat collecting element and the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable thermally conductive solid. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable thermally conductive fluid. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable phase change material. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable thermal contact between the heat rejection element and the heat collecting element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable mechanical contact between the heat rejection element and the heat collecting element. In an embodiment wherein the controllable thermal coupler is further configured to control a flow of a working fluid between the heat rejection element and the heat collecting element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is further configured to control a thermally conductive physical contact between the heat rejection element and the heat collecting element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable thermal contact between the heat generating component and the heat collecting element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable thermally conductive solid. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable thermally conductive fluid. In an embodiment the controllable thermal contact comprises a repositionable phase change material. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable mechanical contact between the heat generating component and the heat collecting element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is further configured to control a flow of a working fluid between the heat generating component and the heat collecting element. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is further configured to control a thermally conductive physical contact between the heat generating component and the heat collecting element.

In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a working fluid control portion of a controllable heat pipe or heat plate positioned between an evaporator portion illustrated as by the heat collecting element and a condenser portion illustrated by the heat rejection element . For example the control element may include a valve switch diverter or baffle.

In an embodiment the proximity sensor is configured to determine a location of a user touch on the shell relative to the location of the heat rejection element . In an embodiment the proximity sensor is configured to determine if a location of a user touch to the shell relative to the location of the heat rejection element is within a zone of possible heat discomfort. In an embodiment the proximity sensor is configured to determine a location of a user touch to the shell relative to the location of the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the proximity sensor is configured to determine a distance between a user touch on the shell and the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the proximity sensor is located on or within the shell. In an embodiment the proximity sensor is located on or within a portion of the shell that is a distance of less than about 25 mm from the location of the heat rejection element on the shell. In an embodiment the distance is less than about 10 mm. In an embodiment the proximity sensor is configured to determine a location and duration of a user touch to the shell relative to the location of the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes an ultrasound based proximity sensor. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes a radiofrequency RF based proximity sensor. A radiofrequency based proximity sensor may include radar such as a micro impulse radar. A radiofrequency based proximity sensor may comprise a dielectric scattering sensor e.g. determining user proximity based on changes to an RF antenna s performance due to the dielectric properties of the user s body. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes a contact sensor located at an exterior surface of the shell. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes an image sensor. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes a temperature sensor. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes an electrical conductivity sensor. For example an electrical conductivity sensor may include a pair of electrical contacts configured to be conductively bridged by contact with a fingertip or body part. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes a capacitive touch sensor. For example one or more capacitive touch sensors may be located over the shell of a cell phone or tablet to have a chance of distinguishing a person s hand from a handbag or pocket. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes a reverse power sensor configured to detect a loading of a transmitting antenna of the portable electronic device by a body part of the user. For example transmitters of portable electronic devices generally have a reverse power sensor already present for protection purposes. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes a thermal capacitor. A thermal capacitor would allow a transmitter of a portable electronic device to run at full power if a user is near the edge of the portable electronic device for a while before you had to drop the call because the surface was getting too hot. An example implementation is a paraffin wax with the right melting point impregnated in a porous metal matrix inside of a metal can. In an embodiment the proximity sensor includes a heat flux sensor proximate to or incorporated in the heat rejection element. This is expected to discern between a proximity of a hand of the user or the portable electronic device being placed in a pocket.

In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to select from a library of heat reduction strategies a heat rejection strategy at least partially based on the determined location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element and to regulate heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat rejection element in response to the selected heat reduction strategy. In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to limit heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat rejection element in response to the determined location of the user touch. In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to limit heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat rejection element in response to a determination that the location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element is within a zone of possible heat discomfort. In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to limit heat discharged by the heat rejection element to a predetermined temperature in response to the determined location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to limit heat discharged by the heat rejection element to a predetermined air temperature in response to the determined location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element. For example this embodiment may be implemented by limiting a temperature of the controllable heat rejection element within a zone of possible heat discomfort relative to the determined location of user touch. For example the limiting a temperature may include limiting a temperature of an exterior surface of the heat rejection element or limiting a temperature of air expelled. In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to limit a surface temperature of the heat rejection element to a predetermined temperature in response to the determined location of the user touch relative to the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the predetermined temperature is a user tolerable temperature when the determined location of the user touch is within a zone of possible heat discomfort relative to the location of the heat rejection element. For example a user tolerable temperature may be 43 C. when the determined location of the user touch is about 25 mm from the location of the heat rejection element. In an embodiment the predetermined temperature is a user tolerable temperature based at least partially on a duration of the user touch within a zone of possible heat discomfort relative to the location of the heat rejection element. For example a user tolerable temperature may be less than about 47 C. when the duration of the user touch is about several seconds less than about 45 C. when the duration of the user touch is between about three and five minutes and less than about 43 C. when the duration of the user touch is more than about five minutes. In an embodiment the predetermined temperature is limited to a thermal damage constraint of the electronic device if the determined location of the user touch is not within a zone of possible heat discomfort relative to the location of the heat rejection element. For example a thermal damage constraint of the electronic device may include a thermal limit of a plastic shell or a thermal limit of the heat generating component . In an embodiment the portable electronic device further includes a temperature sensor configured to determine a temperature of the shell or of the heat rejection element . In an embodiment the portable electronic device further includes another proximity sensor .

In an embodiment of the touch location operation the determining includes determining a location and duration of a user touch to the shell relative to a location of a heat rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell. In an embodiment of the choosing operation the selecting includes selecting a heat rejection strategy responsive to the determined location and a duration of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element. For example the heat rejection strategy may include reducing heat rejection during the duration of the user touch. In an embodiment of the touch location operation the determining includes determining if a location of a user touch to the shell relative to a location of a heat rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell is within a zone of possible heat discomfort. In an embodiment of the choosing operation the selecting includes selecting a heat rejection strategy decreasing heat rejection by the heat rejection element if the determined location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element is within a zone of possible heat discomfort. In an embodiment the zone of possible heat discomfort relative to the location of the heat rejection element is less than about 25 mm. In an embodiment the zone of possible heat discomfort relative to the location of the heat rejection element is less than about 15 mm. In an embodiment the zone of possible heat discomfort is in contact with the heat rejection element.

In an embodiment of the choosing operation the selecting includes selecting a heat rejection strategy increasing heat rejection by the heat rejection element if the determined location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element is not within a zone of possible heat discomfort. In an embodiment of the choosing operation the selecting includes selecting a heat rejection strategy limiting a surface temperature of the heat rejection element to a predetermined temperature if the determined location of the user touch relative to the location of the heat rejection element is within a zone of possible heat discomfort. For example the predetermined temperature may include a temperature determined or predicted to be a user tolerable temperature. For example the predetermined temperature may include a user tolerable temperature.

In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler is substantially similar to the controllable thermal coupler described in conjunction with . The portable electronic device includes an activity monitor configured to infer a user touch to the shell in response to a detected activity of the portable electronic device. In an embodiment the detected activity may include an activity computationally detected or an activity detected by a motion or movement of the shell. For example a computationally detected activity may include receiving a user inputted phone number or a search request. The portable electronic device includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat rejection element in response to the inferred user touch. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a control element configured to physically or mechanically accomplish the regulation of heat transfer illustrated by heat and heat transferring or flowing from the heat generating component to the heat rejection element.

In an embodiment the activity monitor is further configured to infer a location of the user touch to the shell in response to a detected activity of the portable electronic device . In an embodiment the location of the user touch may be computationally detected or activity detected by a motion or movement of the shell. In an embodiment the heat rejection element includes a heat rejection element located at or incorporated in an exterior surface of the shell . In an embodiment the detected activity of the portable electronic device includes a detected user initiated action executing on the portable electronic device. For example a detected user initiated action may include a cell phone function active a browser active displaying video content or a touch screen or keyboard receiving user inputs. In an embodiment the detected activity of the portable electronic device includes a detected spatial movement of the shell having a characteristic of a user imparted movement. For example a detected spatial movement may include a rotational or translational movement. For example a detected spatial movement may include a movement characteristic of a hand holding the electronic device a movement characteristic associated with the user viewing the device or a movement characteristic associated with touch entries. For example such characteristics may include dialing or the portable electronic device remaining persisting in a substantially vertical or horizontal screen orientation. In an embodiment the detected activity of the portable electronic device includes a detected aspect of a movement of the shell having a characteristic of a user imparted movement i.e. indicative of keyboard activity compared to watching a video. In an embodiment the detected activity of the portable electronic device includes an accelerometer detected movement of the shell having a characteristic of a user imparted movement such as being held or resting on a lap. In an embodiment the detected activity of the portable electronic device includes the portable electronic device being in a pocket mode state.

In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to select from a library of at least two heat rejection strategies a heat rejection strategy responsive to an aspect of the inferred user touch. The thermal manager is further configured to regulate heat transfer by the controllable thermal coupler to the heat rejection element in response to the selected heat reduction strategy. For example the library may include different strategies for regulating heat transfer for keyboard activity compared to watching a video. For example the library may include strategies for preferentially rejecting heat to the back side of the portable electronic device not undergoing user imparted movement.

In an embodiment of the control operation the regulating heat transfer includes limiting a heat transfer from a heat generating component of the portable electronic device to a heat rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell in response to the inferred user touch. In an embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation such as an operation . The operation includes selecting a heat rejection strategy responsive to the inferred user touch to the shell. In an embodiment the selecting includes selecting a heat rejection strategy responsive to a duration of the inferred user touch to the shell. In an embodiment the control operation includes at least one additional operation such as an operation . The operation includes regulating in accordance with the selected heat rejection strategy a heat transfer from a heat generating component of the portable electronic device to a heat rejection element located at an exterior surface of the shell.

In an embodiment the shell includes a hand holdable shell. In an embodiment the first heat rejection element is located at a first side of the first exterior portion of the shell and the second heat rejection element is located at a second side of a second exterior portion of the shell. For example a first exterior portion may include a front back or one of the sides. The second exterior portion would include an opposite side or an adjacent side. Alternatively the first heat rejection element and the second heat rejection element may be spaced apart on a same side.

In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a controllable thermal coupler thermally coupled between the heat generating component and i the first heat rejection element and ii the second heat rejection element . In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a first heat receiving element in thermal contact with the heat generating component. In an embodiment the controllable thermal coupler includes a second heat receiving element not illustrated also in thermal contact with the heat generating component.

In an embodiment the portable electronic device further includes a second proximity sensor configured to determine if a second user touch to the shell is within a second zone of possible heat discomfort not illustrated defined for the second heat rejection element . The second proximity sensor has a proximity to the second heat rejection element. In an embodiment the regulated heat transfer includes adjusting heat rejection away from the first heat rejection element and toward the second heat rejection element if i the user touch is determined to be within the first zone of possible heat discomfort and ii a second user touch is determined not to be within the second zone of possible heat discomfort. In an embodiment the regulated heat transfer includes decreasing heat rejection from the first heat rejection element and increasing heat rejection from the second heat rejection element. In an embodiment the regulated heat transfer includes terminating heat rejection from the first heat rejection element and increasing heat rejection from the second heat rejection element. In an embodiment the regulated heat transfer includes vectoring heat transfer away from first heat rejection element and toward the second heat rejection element. In an embodiment the regulated heat transfer includes limiting rejection of heat by the first heat rejection element to a predetermined temperature. For example limiting rejection of heat may be by reference to an exterior surface of the first heat rejection element or by reference to air discharged by or touched by the first heat rejection element. In an embodiment the portable electronic device includes a temperature sensor configured to determine an exterior temperature of a portion of the shell . In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a library of heat reduction strategies .

In an embodiment the choosing operation includes selecting a heat rejection strategy responsive to i a determination that the user touch to the shell is within the first zone of possible heat discomfort and ii a duration of the user touch within the first zone of possible heat discomfort. In an embodiment the control operation includes regulating heat transfer from the heat generating device to the first heat rejection element and to second heat rejection element. In an embodiment the selecting includes selecting a heat regulating strategy vectoring heat transfer away from the first heat rejection element and toward the second heat rejection element in response to the selected heat rejection strategy. In an embodiment the selecting includes selecting a heat regulating strategy limiting rejection of heat by the first heat rejection element to a predetermined temperature.

The portable electronic device includes a system for limiting exterior temperatures encountered by the user of the portable electronic device. The portable electronic device includes a shell housing a heat generating component . The portable electronic device includes a contact sensor configured to determine a user touch to the shell. For example a finger or palm of the hand of the user may contact or hold the shell of the portable electronic device during use of the portable electronic device. The portable electronic device includes a temperature sensor configured to determine an exterior temperature of the shell. The portable electronic device includes a thermal manager configured to reduce the exterior shell temperature by regulating heat generation by the heat generating component. The regulating heat generation is responsive to the determined user touch and the determined temperature of the shell. In an embodiment the portable electronic device may be implemented using the thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the portable electronic device may be implemented using the general computing device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the thermal manager is configured to reduce the exterior shell temperature by limiting heat generation by the heat generating component generation. In an embodiment the shell includes a hand holdable shell. In an embodiment the contact sensor is configured to determine an occurrence of a user touch to an exterior portion of the shell . In an embodiment the contact sensor is configured to determine a location of a user touch to an exterior portion of the shell. In an embodiment the temperature sensor is configured to measure an exterior temperature of the shell. In an embodiment the temperature sensor is configured to predict an exterior temperature of the shell. For example a prediction may be based on estimates or history of heat generation by the heat generating component. For example a prediction may be based on an interior temperature of the portable electronic device. For example a prediction may be based on correlations i.e. made by the manufacturer or a testing facility between levels of heat generation or interior temperatures with external temperatures at various locations on the shell. In an embodiment the temperature sensor is configured to measure a temperature of a first exterior portion of the shell. In an embodiment the temperature sensor is configured to determine a temperature of the shell substantially concurrent with the determined occurrence of the user touch to the shell. For example substantially concurrent may include happening at about the same time i.e. within about one second five seconds ten seconds or one minute. In an embodiment the temperature sensor is configured to determine a temperature of a same outside portion of the shell as the user touch to the shell. In an embodiment the temperature sensor is configured to determine a temperature of the shell within about 2 cm of a determined location of the user touch to the shell. In an embodiment the temperature sensor is configured to determine a temperature of the shell within about 1 cm of a determined location of the user touch to the shell. In an embodiment the contact sensor is further configured to determine a duration of a user touch to the shell. In an embodiment the shell includes another exterior portion and a display screen .

In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat generation by the heat generating component in response to i the determined user touch and ii the determined temperature of the shell exceeding a threshold value. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat generation by the heat generating component in response to i a location of the determined user touch and ii a measured temperature of the shell exceeding a threshold value. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat generation by the heat generating component in response to i the determined user touch ii a duration of the user touch and iii the determined temperature of the shell exceeding a threshold value. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by initiating a slowdown in a clock speed of a processor of the portable electronic device in response to the determined user touch. For example a slowdown in clock speed of a processor may be implemented by a component controller in communication with the thermal manager. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by initiating a slowdown in clock speed of a processor of the portable electronic device in response to the determined user touch and in response to a measured temperature of a first external portion of the shell exceeding a threshold value. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat generation by terminating delaying or slowing down execution of an application or process. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to regulate heat generation by terminating delaying or slowing down execution of an application or process drawing current from an energy storage device such as a battery of the portable electronic device greater than a current limitation. For example the current limitation may be a predetermined limitation or a dynamically determined limitation based on factors related to an aspect of the electronic device the particular application or the particular process involved. For example different current limitations may be selected in response to high display demands or high storage media or volatile media activity. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by reducing a core voltage of a processor of the portable electronic device in response to the determined user touch. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to select from a library of heat rejection strategies a heat rejection strategy responsive to the exterior temperature of the shell and to regulate heat generation by the heat generating component in response to the selected heat rejection strategy.

Returning to an example alternative embodiment of the portable electronic device is also illustrated by these figures. The portable electronic device includes a system for limiting exterior shell temperatures encountered by a user. The portable electronic device includes the shell housing the portable electronic device and the heat generating component . The portable electronic device includes a temperature sensor configured to measure a temperature of an external portion of the shell. The portable electronic device includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by the heat generating component in response to the measured temperature of the shell.

In an embodiment the shell includes a hand holdable shell housing the portable electronic device . In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by the heat generating component in response to a measured temperature of the shell exceeding a threshold value. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by slowing down a clock speed of a processor of the portable electronic device in response to the measured temperature of the shell. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by terminating delaying or slowing down execution of an application or process in response to the measured temperature of the shell. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by terminating delaying or slowing down execution of an application or process drawing current from an energy storage device of the portable electronic device greater than a current limit. In an embodiment the thermal manager includes a thermal manager configured to limit heat generation by reducing a core voltage of a processor of the portable electronic device in response to the measured temperature of the shell.

In an embodiment of the evaluating operation the measuring includes measuring a temperature of an exterior surface of the shell. In an embodiment of the choosing operation the selecting a heat reduction strategy includes selecting the heat generating component to be regulated by the heat reduction strategy from among at least two possible heat generating components of the portable electronic device. In an embodiment a heat generating component includes a heat generating component configured to be directly or indirectly limited in its heat generation. In an embodiment the selecting a heat reduction strategy includes selecting a heat reduction strategy limiting an exterior surface temperature of the shell to a predetermined temperature. In an embodiment the selecting a heat reduction strategy includes selecting a heat reduction strategy slowing down a clock speed of a processor of the portable electronic device in response to the measured temperature of the shell. In an embodiment the selecting a heat reduction strategy includes selecting a heat reduction strategy terminating delaying or slowing down execution of an application or process in response to the measured temperature of the shell. In an embodiment the selecting a heat reduction strategy includes selecting a heat reduction strategy reducing a core voltage of a processor of the portable electronic device in response to the measured temperature of the shell. In an embodiment the selecting a heat reduction strategy includes selecting a heat reduction strategy from a library of at least two heat reduction strategies.

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety or to the extent their subject matter is not otherwise inconsistent herewith.

In some embodiments configured includes at least one of designed set up shaped implemented constructed or adapted for at least one of a particular purpose application or function.

It will be understood that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims are generally intended as open terms. For example the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to. For example the term having should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term has should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of introductory phrases such as at least one or one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a receiver should typically be interpreted to mean at least one receiver the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited it will be recognized that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of at least two chambers or a plurality of chambers without other modifiers typically means at least two chambers .

In those instances where a phrase such as at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C or an item selected from the group consisting of A B and C is used in general such a construction is intended to be disjunctive e.g. any of these phrases would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together and may further include more than one of A B or C such as A A and C together A B B C and Ctogether or Band Btogether . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable or physically interacting components or wirelessly interactable or wirelessly interacting components.

With respect to the appended claims the recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Use of Start End Stop or the like blocks in the block diagrams is not intended to indicate a limitation on the beginning or end of any operations or functions in the diagram. Such flowcharts or diagrams may be incorporated into other flowcharts or diagrams where additional functions are performed before or after the functions shown in the diagrams of this application. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

