---

title: System and method for adaptive downlink scheduler for wireless networks
abstract: The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media for efficient scheduling of downlink data traffic at a base station. The method may comprise: receiving one or more downlink data packets from a second protocol layer. Thereafter, the one or more downlink packets may be classified into one or more categories of packets based on transmission type and radio transmission state of the one or more downlink packets. Further, one or more first packets from each of the one or more categories of packets may be scheduled based on a pre-determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a predetermined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets. Finally, the one or more first packets are transmitted from the one or more categories of packets in a transmission time interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609660&OS=09609660&RS=09609660
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09609660
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150311
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to India Application No. 6405 CHE 2014 filed on Dec. 19 2014. The entire contents of the aforementioned application are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to wireless communication networks and more particularly but not limited to adaptive scheduling of heterogeneous packets across a downlink communication channel in the wireless communication networks.

In present day scenario rapid increase in mobile subscriber base and recent emergence of applications such as MMOG multimedia online gaming mobile TV web 2.0 high definition video streaming live meeting etc. have resulted in large scale increase of mobile data usage. Typically a base station has a limited cell bandwidth of 1.4 to 20 MHz. As a result users will be faced with service refusal degradation in quality of service. Also performance of the base station may be degraded due to increased handover delays underutilization of radio resources etc.

For example LTE long term evolution network tries to address the above issues by providing high sector capacity through a frequency reuse factor of 1 improve end user throughputs by providing faster download and upload rates scalability and reduced user plane latency through simplified architecture and bringing significantly improved user experience with full mobility.

In a LTE network the backhaul connectivity between the base station referred to as evolved node B eNodeB or eNB and core network will be completely packet switched network all Internet Protocol based . A packet switched network imposes challenges on eNB to achieve overall network performance and efficient resource utilization because of inherent issue of non guaranteed packet arrival rate in the core network. Thus it leads to the fact that high network bandwidth do not always conclude in better network performance.

The LTE has simplified base station or eNB architecture with each layer in the protocol stack playing a vital role. The network architecture of the eNB comprises a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer a radio link control RLC layer and a medium access control MAC layer. Downlink scheduling of the data packets is the main functionality of the MAC layer. However due to uncertainty in wireless channel conditions huge traffic load and uneven packet arrival pattern the performance of the MAC layer in providing downlink scheduling in a high speed wireless communication network is greatly hampered.

In view of the above drawbacks there is a need for an improved downlink scheduler that can improve performance of the high speed wireless communication network.

Disclosed herein is a method for efficient scheduling of downlink data traffic at a base station. The method may include receiving at a first protocol layer one or more downlink data packets from a second protocol layer classifying the one or more downlink packets into one or more categories of packets based on transmission type and radio transmission state of the one or more downlink packets scheduling one or more first packets from each of the one or more categories of packets based on a pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a predetermined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets transmitting the one or more first packets from the one or more categories of packets in a transmission time interval updating a pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a pre determined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets after a predetermined time interval and scheduling one or more second packets from the one or more categories of packets based on the updated pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a predetermined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets in the transmission time interval subsequent to the updating.

In an aspect of the invention a system for efficient scheduling of downlink data traffic at a base station is disclosed. The system may include one or more hardware processors and a memory storing instructions that when executed by the one or more hardware processors cause the one or more hardware processors to perform operations. The operations may include receiving at a first protocol layer one or more downlink data packets from a second protocol layer classifying the one or more downlink packets into one or more categories of packets based on transmission type and radio transmission state of the one or more downlink packets scheduling one or more first packets from each of the one or more categories of packets based on a pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a predetermined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets transmitting the one or more first packets from the one or more categories of packets in a transmission time interval updating a pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a pre determined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets after a predetermined time interval and scheduling one or more second packets from the one or more categories of packets based on the updated pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a predetermined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets in the transmission time interval subsequent to the updating.

In another aspect of the invention a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions for efficient scheduling of downlink data traffic at a base station is disclosed. The instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations may include receiving at a first protocol layer one or more downlink data packets from a second protocol layer classifying the one or more downlink packets into one or more categories of packets based on transmission type and radio transmission state of the one or more downlink packets scheduling one or more first packets from each of the one or more categories of packets based on a pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a predetermined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets transmitting the one or more first packets from the one or more categories of packets in a transmission time interval updating a pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a pre determined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets after a predetermined time interval and scheduling one or more second packets from the one or more categories of packets based on the updated pre determined priority order of the one or more categories of packets and a predetermined packet transmission share associated with each of the one or more categories of packets in the transmission time interval subsequent to the updating.

Additional objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the following detailed description and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the present disclosure. The objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

As used herein reference to an element by the indefinite article a or an does not exclude the possibility that more than one of the element is present unless the context requires that there is one and only one of the elements. The indefinite article a or an thus usually means at least one. The disclosure of numerical ranges should be understood as referring to each discrete point within the range inclusive of endpoints unless otherwise noted.

As used herein the terms comprise comprises comprising includes including has having contains or containing or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a composition process method article system apparatus etc. that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed. The terms consist of consists of consisting of or any other variation thereof excludes any element step or ingredient etc. not specified. The term consist essentially of consists essentially of consisting essentially of or any other variation thereof permits the inclusion of elements steps or ingredients etc. not listed to the extent they do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristic s of the claimed subject matter.

The present disclosure discloses an improved eNB enabled with an adaptive downlink scheduler. The adaptive downlink scheduler may be used for scheduling data packets across a shared downlink communication channel from eNB to mobile stations user equipment in a wireless broadband network. The scheduling results in effective scheduling of traffic in a dynamic load scenario to achieve optimal network performance efficient resource utilization and increased cell throughput. The adaptive downlink scheduler is able to perform differential scheduling based on radio transmission state and selective scheduling based on transmission type using the following mechanism 

The exemplary wireless communication system may include a first radio access network first cell and a second radio access networks second cell evolved packet core EPC networks and external networks internet . In certain implementations the first radio access network may be a Long Term Evolution LTE wireless communication network. The second radio access network may be WLAN networks that may include IEEE802.11 WLAN IEEE802.16 WiMAX network etc. Further as shown the UE4 operates within the overlapping region of the first radio access network and the second radio access network and served by both the networks. In some implementations 2G 3G systems Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Universal Mobile Telecommunications systems UMTS and or Code Division Multiple Access CDMA2000 may also be integrated into the first radio access network .

Further the first cell may be service area of the eNB and the second cell may be the service area of the eNB . The first cell and the second cell may overlap. The eNB may include a processing module. The processing module may include one or more processing components alternatively referred to as processors or central processing units CPUs operable to execute instructions related to one or more of the processes steps or actions described in connection with one or more of the embodiments disclosed herein. The processing module may include other auxiliary components such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM secondary storage for example a hard disk drive or flash memory . Additionally the processing module may execute certain instructions and commands to provide wireless or wired communication using a wired communication subsystem or a wireless communication subsystem of the eNB.

The UE may be any wireless electronic device used by an end user to communicate for example within the wireless communication system . The UE may transmit voice video multimedia text web content and or any other user client specific content. The transmission of some contents e.g. video and web content may require high channel throughput to satisfy the end user demand. The UE may generate requests send responses or otherwise communicate in different means with Evolved Packet Core EPC and or external networks Internet Protocol IP networks through the eNBs . Examples of UE include but are not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a telephone a television a remote controller a set top box a computer monitor a computer including a tablet computer a desktop computer a handheld or laptop computer a netbook computer a personal digital assistant PDA etc.

The EPC may include one or more mobility management entities MME a serving gateways SGW not shown and a packet data network gateway PGW not shown . The PGW may provide connectivity to the services domain comprising external networks such as the IP networks.

The scheduler configuration module may be responsible for storing the environment e.g. No. of bins and type of bins and configuration parameters static and dynamic required by all other modules of the adaptive downlink scheduler ADS .

During initialization of the ADS the ADS may obtain following configuration parameters from the management application . This list of configuration parameters is meant to be illustrative only and not exhaustive.

This defines the number of packets to be transmitted from each bin within a single system time interval which is given below 

If is the maximum number of packets which can be transmitted in a system time interval such that This parameter may be used by the packet selection module

The maximum packet delay budget of each of application type represented by each packet which is a 3GPP specification defined parameter.

Defines a list to hold a user which got scheduled in a system time interval and it is initialized with NULL.

The PCM may be responsible for dynamic classification of packets. The PCM may dynamically classify the packets coming from the RLC layer based on the packet classification criteria transmission type GBR Non GBR and Control radio transmission state New Transmission Re transmission as given by the SCM. The PCM may assign a label to the classified packet and forwards it to the BMM .

The BMM may be responsible for management of the bins. The BMM may obtain the bin information e.g. Number of bins and Type of bins from the SCM and creates physical bins Queues linked lists etc. . The bins may comprise control traffic new Tx bin The BMM may receive the packets from the PCM based on the label assigned to each packet identifies the bins to which the packet belongs and pushes the packets into the respective bins. The BMM adds two tags to each of the packet. The first tag is called bin onset time and the second tag is called packet arrival time. As the BMM puts the packet to the physical bin it may initialize the packet arrival time to the system time value. The BMM may also maintains statistics for the bins e.g. Replenishment rate of each bin number of packets in the bin. . For the certain bins like Control NewTx and Control ReTx the bin may be sorted in descending order of Bin onset time. The BMM may also track the number of packets per Bin.

The SMCM may dynamically calculate a distinct scheduling metric for certain categories of packets. These categories of packets may be guaranteed bit rate new GBR NewTx packets and Non GBR ReTx packets. The SMCM may obtain configuration parameters e.g. scheduling metric calculation periodicity Maximum Bitrate and Maximum Packet delay budget from the SCM . The SMCM may also obtain performance values Average Bit rate HOL delay and inter scheduling interval from the PMM . The SMCM may obtain the run time packet information Packet service type QCI from the BMM and may calculate the scheduling metric for the GBR NewTx packets and Non GBR ReTx packets across the respective bins.

The PSM may dynamically select the packets across the bins for transmission. The PSM may obtain the configuration parameters e.g. Priority order and Packet Transmission share per bin from the SCM . The PSM may obtain the scheduling metric values from SMCM . The PSM may then selects the packets for transmission. The selected packets are forwarded to medium access control MAC s L2 L1 interface for transmission to the UEs .

The PMM may dynamically monitor the adaptive downlink scheduler performance. The PMM may obtain the transmission status ACK NACK Number of Transmission bits etc. from the MAC layer s L2 L1 interface calculates the adaptive downlink scheduler performance throughputs and delays . The PMM may map the transmission status i.e. ACK NACK to radio transmission state. The ACK will be mapped to new transmission packet and NACK will be mapped to Re transmission packet. Once the mapping is complete the PMM may share the radio transmission to the PCM .

The TAM may dynamically monitor the trigger for Auto tuning. The TAM may obtain the configuration parameters e.g. Auto tuning periodicity from the SCM and after every Auto tuning periodicity time the TAM module may send a trigger message to the ATM .

The ATM may periodically auto tunes some of the scheduler configuration parameters based on the inputs from the PMM and BMM . The ATM may read the specific scheduler configuration parameters e.g. Transmission Share Priority order from the SCM auto tunes the configuration parameters by considering performance parameters from the PMM and BMM and writes back the auto tuned parameters to the SCM .

At step classify the packets. The PCM may identify the transmission type of the received packet as one of Control packet GBR Packet Non GBR packet etc. based on the radio bearer id in the received packet. The PCM may then identify the radio transmission state of the packet as one of New Transmission packet Re Transmission packet etc. from the HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request state of the packet. The PCM may generate a label from the determined transmission type and radio transmission state. For example a label may be generated by combining the values of the transmission type and radio transmission state in the form of a concatenated string. For example if transmission type is GBR Packet and radio transmission state is New Transmission packet then the label will be GBR NewTx . The PCM may assign the generated label to the received packets to classify it by setting the value of the field Label in the packet. The PCM may forward the labeled packet to the BMM either through an interface or in memory data sharing. The BMM may receive the labeled packet and stores packet arrival time as the current system time stamp and set the bin onset time value to zero to the labeled packet. The BMM may then place the labeled packet in the respective bin by matching the Bin ID with the packet label.

At step the SMCM may gain access to the GBR NewTx and Non GBR NewTx bins from the BMM . The SMCM may then determine the scheduling metric for each of the packets of GBR NewTx and Non GBR NewTx bins.

At step the PSM may gain access to the bins from the BMM . The PSM may obtain the priority order of and transmission share of packets for each of the bins for packet selection from the SCM . The PSM may then choose bins in the obtained priority order and then chooses the packets from each bin as per the transmission share of each of the bins by following a series of steps. The chosen packets may be forwarded to the MAC layer for being transmitted across the downlink communication channel to the UE .

At step a decision is taken as to whether the occurrence of the auto tuning trigger for the updating of the configuration parameters i.e. packet transmitted per bin priority order is reached or not. If the answer is yes the method goes to step where the ATM reads the current scheduler configuration parameters i.e. packet transmitted per bin priority order from SCM and update the configuration parameters i.e. packets transmitted per bin priority order of the bins and writes back the updated configuration parameters from the SCM . If the answer is no the method goes to step .

At step classify the packets and place the packets in different bins based on the classification. The PCM may identify the transmission type of the received packet as one of Control packet GBR Packet Non GBR packet etc. based on the radio bearer id in the received packet. The PCM may then identify the radio transmission state of the packet as one of New Transmission packet Re Transmission packet etc. from the HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request state of the packet. For example if transmission type is GBR Packet and radio transmission state is New Transmission packet then the label will be GBR NewTx . The PCM may assign the generated label to the received packets to classify it by setting the value of the field Label in the packet. The PCM may forward the labeled packet to the BMM either through an interface or in memory data sharing. The BMM may receive the labeled packet and stores packet arrival time as the current system time stamp and set the bin onset time value to zero to the labeled packet. The BMM may then place the labeled packet in the respective bin by matching the Bin ID with the packet label.

At step the SMCM may gain access to the GBR NewTx bin from the BMM . At step the SMCM may then determine scheduling metric for GBR NewTx bin using the following steps for the bin.

a. The SMCM may check if the scheduling metric calculation periodicity for this bin is reached i.e. if System time 0

If true then SMCM goes to the next step else it returns wherein system time is the current system time stamp obtained from MAC s L2 L1 interface .

b. The SMCM may then calculate the scheduling metric for all the packets in the bin in top to bottom order using the following steps 

At step the PSM may then get the scheduling metric for each packet from the scheduling metric field of the packet. The bin may be sorted in descending order of the calculated scheduling metric. Thereafter at step the PSM may fetch the packet transmitted per Bin associated with GBR NewTx bin i.e. from the SCM and added to scheduling list .

At step classify the packets and place the packets in different bins based on the classification. The PCM may identify the transmission type of the received packet as one of Control packet GBR Packet Non GBR packet etc. based on the radio bearer id in the received packet. The PCM may then identify the radio transmission state of the packet as one of New Transmission packet Re Transmission packet etc. from the HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request state of the packet. For example if transmission type is Non GBR Packet and radio transmission state is New Transmission packet then the label will be Non GBR NewTx . The PCM may assign the generated label to the received packets to classify it by setting the value of the field Label in the packet. The PCM may forward the labeled packet to the BMM either through an interface or in memory data sharing. The BMM may receive the labeled packet and stores packet arrival time as the current system time stamp and set the bin onset time value to zero to the labeled packet. The BMM may then place the labeled packet in the respective bin by matching the Bin ID with the packet label.

At step the SMCM may gain access to the Non GBR NewTx bin from the BMM . At step the SMCM may then determine scheduling metric for Non GBR NewTx bin using the following steps for the bin.

a. The SMCM may check if the scheduling metric calculation periodicity for this bin is reached i.e. if System time 0

If true then SMCM goes to the next step else it returns wherein system time is the current system time stamp obtained from MAC s L2 L1 interface .

b. The SMCM may then calculate the scheduling metric for all the packets in the bin in top to bottom order using the following steps 

At step the PSM may then get the scheduling metric for each packet from the scheduling metric field of the packet. The bin may be sorted in ascending descending order of the calculated scheduling metric. Thereafter at step the PSM may fetch the packet transmitted per bin associated with Non GBR NewTx bin i.e. from the SCM and added to scheduling list .

At step classify the packets and place the packets in different bins based on the classification. At step the PSM may fetch the packets from the control NewTx and the control ReTx bins as per the Packet Transmitted per Bin or obtained from the SCM . Then the packets are added to the scheduling list .

At step classify the packets and place the packets in different bins based on the classification. At step the PSM may gain access to the GBR ReTx bin . The PSM may obtain the Retransmission count from the ReTX Count Field from the packet. Packets Retransmission count greater than GBR ReTx Max Retx count may be dropped. The PSM may then choose the packets with Bin onset time greater than GBR ReTx Bin hold off timer threshold and adds to a temporary list. The temporary list may be sorted in with respect to retransmission count in descending order.

At step the PSM may fetch the packets as per the packet transmitted per bin associated with GBR ReTx bin i.e. from the SCM and added to scheduling list .

At step classify the packets and place the packets in different bins based on the classification. At step the PSM may gain access to the Non GBR ReTx bin . The PSM may obtain the Retransmission count from the ReTX Count Field from the packet. Packets Retransmission count greater than NonGBR ReTx Max Retx count may be dropped. The PSM may then choose the packets with Bin onset time greater than Non GBR ReTx Bin hold off timer threshold and adds to a temporary list. The temporary list may be sorted in with respect to Retransmission count in descending order.

At step the PSM may fetch the packets as per the packet transmitted per bin associated with Non GBR ReTx i.e. from the SCM and added to the scheduling list .

At step actual auto tuning of the configuration parameters take place. The ATM may read the current scheduler configuration parameters for example Packet Transmitted per Bin Priority order from the SCM . For packet transmitted per bin parameter update the ATM may perform the following steps 

The ATM may check whether the average inter scheduling delay is greater than or equal to average inter scheduling delay Threshold per Bin   bin TH AND current number of queued packet per bin is greater than or equal to Number of Packet Queued Threshold per Bin N  bin TH 

For those bins if the above comparison is TRUE then increment the packet transmitted per Bin by  bin ELSE for those bins if the above comparison is FALSE then decrement the packet transmitted per Bin by  bin. The ATM may send the new packet transmitted per Bin to the SCM .

For Priority order parameter update the ATM may check whether the current number of queued packet per bin is greater than Number of Packet Queued Threshold per Bin N  bin TH . If TRUE ATM will alter given priority ELSE maintain the current priority order. The ATM may re order the priority order and send it to the SCM .

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 518 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data . The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

