---

title: System and method for transmitting a services list to a playback device
abstract: There is provided a system and method for dynamically transmitting a services list to a playback device. The system comprises a display device, a playback device, and a mediator server with a mediator application. The mediator application is configured to receive, from the playback device, a service request for a services list, to send a services list for presenting on a display device in response to receiving the service request, to receive an activation request for at a third-party service listed in the services list, and to activate the third-party service in response to receiving the activation request. By programming a digital video disc such as a Blu-ray disc according to an API and using such a mediator server, a dynamically adjustable list of third-party services may be supported and used by the playback device without changing the disc application code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232280&OS=09232280&RS=09232280
owner: Disney Enterprises, Inc.
number: 09232280
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150415
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 230 594 filed Sep. 12 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to transmitting data to a playback device. More particularly the present invention relates to transmitting a services list to a playback device.

Blu ray players and other digital video disc playback devices allow users to connect to the Internet to access additional features and data during playback of Blu ray Discs and other digital discs. Many digital video discs have incorporated capabilities to allow users to access their accounts on numerous third party services including social networking services such as Facebook Twitter and Google Plus Google .

Presently a digital video disc such as a Blu ray Disc provides capability for users to access accounts on a fixed number of third party services. While the availability of new and existing third party services may change over time present digital video discs are hard coded with a fixed set of supported third party services that may be managed from menu options. In order to gain access to additional third party services unavailable on a particular digital video disc users may have to purchase or exchange for newly updated discs with updated support code which may be costly and inconvenient.

Accordingly there is a need to overcome the drawbacks and deficiencies in the art by providing a method that provides updated access to third party services on digital video discs without resorting to replacement discs.

There is provided systems and methods for transmitting a services list to a playback device substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The present application is directed to a system and method for transmitting a services list to a playback device. The following description contains specific information pertaining to the implementation of the present invention. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be implemented in a manner different from that specifically discussed in the present application. Moreover some of the specific details of the invention are not discussed in order not to obscure the invention. The specific details not described in the present application are within the knowledge of a person of ordinary skill in the art. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary embodiments of the invention. To maintain brevity other embodiments of the invention which use the principles of the present invention are not specifically described in the present application and are not specifically illustrated by the present drawings.

Display device may be any type of visual output device such as a liquid crystal display LCD television for example. Display device may be connected to playback device through a wireless or physical connection. Playback device may be any type of device capable of presenting audio and visual contents stored in digital video disc onto display device . In one embodiment as shown in playback device may be a Blu ray Disc player. Device memory may be any type of computer readable storage device. Credential file may comprise any type of data file. Credential file may store prior history information such as for example previously used account login information including usernames and passwords for prior accessed third party services. Credential file may be encrypted or otherwise protected from unauthorized access. Device processor may be any type of computing processor. Device application may be a software application executed by device processor to direct the behavior of playback device . Digital video disc may comprise any type of optical data disc or another physical media format such as a flash memory card. In one embodiment digital video disc may be a Blu ray Disc. Disc application may be a software application used by playback device for media playback or to present other functionalities such as menu options from digital video disc .

In one embodiment mediator server may be any type of server machine. Processor may be any type of processor. Memory may be any type of machine readable digital data storage device. Services list may be an updatable data file comprising a list of third party services presently recognized by mediator server . Mediator application may be a software application executed and controlled by processor . Application programming interface may comprise a data file containing a set of rules and specifications for implementing the interfaces of software applications. Both disc application and mediator application may be implemented in conformity to a common application programming interface . Accordingly mediator server using mediator application and playback device using disc application may communicate through a common application programming interface . Accordingly when mediator application is updated to reflect additional functionalities mediator application may still fully communicate with device processor executing disc application . In one embodiment application programming interface may reside within mediator server .

In one embodiment network may comprise any type of network such as the Internet. Servers may represent server hardware clusters or data centers connected to network . In one embodiment servers may host the third party services listed in services list . In alternative embodiments other servers not shown may host some third party services listed in services list . Third party services may be social networking services such as for example Facebook Twitter and Google Plus respectively. In alternative embodiments servers may host other types of third party services for example e commerce sites and other services.

In one embodiment device processor executing disc application may send a service request for services list through network to mediator server and mediator application may be configured to receive from playback device that service request for services list or a subset of the contents of services list . In the present embodiment the general service request may be transmitted to request the entire services list . In other embodiments a specific service request may be transmitted to request a subset of the contents of services list . As an example a specific service request may seek a list of third party services that may perform a specific function. That specific functionality may be the capability to allow users to create and retrieve an online cash account with a balance so the user may make online purchases for example. The returned list of third party services may include Amazon.com Inc. or any other e commerce sites with similar functionalities but may not include social networking sites such as Facebook for example. The specific functionality may be associated with a category in the metadata file as will be explained below. Therefore in alternative embodiments service requests may be specific service requests that contain a specific functionality and the associated transmitted services list may comprise contents associated with that specific functionality.

In the present embodiment the service request may comprise a BD Live Blu ray Disc Live access request from playback device . When playback device attempts to acquire any contents or features associated with digital video disc across network or to gain access to a third party service across network playback device may transmit a BD Live access request across network as is known in the art. In alternative embodiments a service request may comprise other types of access requests that may be transmitted to and received by mediator application .

In the present embodiment mediator application may be further configured to send services list for presenting on display device in response to receiving the service request from playback device . Sending services list may cause mediator application to duplicate services list and send the duplicated service list to playback device . In one embodiment prior to sending services list mediator application may be further configured to dynamically update services list to reflect a present availability of third party services. Since some third party services may be created and other third party services may become inaccessible service list may require updating in order to reflect such changes. Device processor executing disc application may present services list on display device in response to receiving the services list . Device processor executing disc application may present services list by displaying services list through a built in menu of digital video disc or other graphical components. In one embodiment sending services list may further comprise delivering a metadata file associated with services list wherein the metadata file comprises information categorizing the contents within services list .

In other embodiments the metadata file may be initially and automatically transmitted to playback device when the user accesses a main menu setting in order to populate the main menu with selectable categories. A category may be selected and such a selection may result in a specific service request requesting a subset of the list of third party services listed in services list matching the specific function associated with the category.

In the present embodiment even if a transmitted services list contains less than all of the contents listed in services list the metadata file may still contain all of the category information. Using the metadata file device processor using disc application may display the contents of services list in several categories based on for example the operational functionalities associated with the contents. In order to use display area economically device processor may not present all categories in the metadata list.

In one embodiment after presenting services list onto display device device processor executing disc application may transmit an activation request for a third party service listed in services list . Transmitting the activation request from playback device may further comprise accessing credential file in order to obtain an account login information. As previously explained credential file may contain prior history information including an account login information. The account login information may be stored within the activation request and transmitted to mediator server to facilitate activating a third party service from the mediator server .

In one embodiment mediator application may be configured to receive from playback device an activation request for a third party service listed in services list . In order for mediator application to access a third party service listed in services list a user of playback device may be initially required to create and send an activation request for that third party service listed in services list to mediator server . Descriptions for and below will further describe how to create an activation request. Mediator server using mediator application may activate that third party service associated with the activation request in response to receiving the activation request. In this instance the third party service may be a social networking service such as Facebook for example. In one embodiment mediator server using mediator application may activate the third party service by establishing a connection to that third party service which may be hosted within any one of server or within another location in network . In one embodiment activating the third party service may comprise mediator application using the activation request logging into a user account within that third party service. As explained previously an activation request may comprise an account login information for example. In alternative embodiments mediator server using mediator application may activate a third party service by using the activation request to log into a plurality of user accounts of the third party service. Some users may have multiple user accounts within the same third party service and mediator application may use an appropriately created activation request to log into all of the multiple user accounts.

In one embodiment whenever mediator server using mediator application successfully activates a third party service mediator server may transmit a successful verification to playback device through network . Device processor executing disc application may update display device with a login success interface in response to receiving a successful verification of the activation request. The successful verification may be any type of appropriate digital notification. Login success interface may comprise a message regarding the successful activation of the third party service. In the present embodiment updating display device in response to a successful verification may comprise storing an account login information of the activation request back into credential file if such account login information does not already exist in credential file .

In one embodiment menu may comprise a graphical user interface GUI of options shown on display device while disc application of may be executing in playback device of . Menu may be a subsection of a main menu generated from digital video disc of using disc application of . Thus rather than being accessed through a separate application the third party services listed in services list of may be integrated directly into the built in main or pop up menus of digital video disc . Settings component may be a graphical component of menu . Settings component may be a conventional graphical drop down bar with additional components. Account settings component may be another drop down bar within settings component . Share settings component may also be a drop down bar under account settings component . Plurality of service components may comprise the graphical presentation of services list of . Each of service components and may comprise a graphical component associated with a third party service listed in services list . Service components or may be used to cause mediator server to access the associated third party service that may be hosted on servers of or on any other locations connected to network of .

As previously explained device processor of may present services list as plurality of service components on display device . In the embodiment shown in device processor may present plurality of service components through a built in menu . Presently services list may contain a list of the Facebook and Twitter services. Thus service components and may be associated with Facebook and Twitter services respectively. In the present embodiment of the invention as shown in service components and under share settings component may only be used to cause mediator server of to activate the third party services associated with service components and . Other uses for the plurality of service components may be performed at other areas of menu or through other built in pop up menus of digital video disc .

In share settings component may represent a category of third party services with the specific functionality to share contents such as status updates across a social network. No other categories are shown in . However as previously explained information for all available categories may be stored in the metadata file associated with services list and transmitted to playback device . In alternative embodiments a user may request account settings component to display more categories in the metadata file if any exists. The user may select any of these additional categories which may be populated with contents listed in services list . Various categories may even comprise overlapping third party service components. Therefore in alternative embodiments a user may have numerous categories to choose from in menu in order to search for and activate a third party service that can perform a desired functionality or service. As previously explained the categories may be pre determined by mediator server and each displayed category may represent a functionality or service with a list of associated third party components. For example the categories may include any e commerce service online banking service movie streaming service or any other types of services recognized by mediator server . Each of the displayed categories may be populated with additional relevant third party components associated with existing third party services.

Menu may correspond to menu of being accessed at a later time. Mediator server of may have become aware of a new third party service since the most recent access of services list and services list may be dynamically updated with new information to reflect a present availability of third party services. Presently device processor executing disc application may once again send a service request to mediator server and may receive in return a dynamically updated services list . Accordingly plurality of service components being the graphical presentation of an updated services list may also be different from plurality of service components of . Plurality of service components may comprise not only service components and but also service component . Service component may be associated with a new third party service such as for example Google Plus service.

In service component may be selected for activation. As previously explained in order to initially activate any third party service device processor of using disc application of may transmit an activation request to mediator server of for activating the third party service associated with service component . In one embodiment the activation request may be created using activation interface . Activation interface may comprise GUI components that may allow the user to input any required information such as credential information. The types of credential information required may be contained in services list of . In one embodiment activation interface may provide text fields for inputting a username and password of a user account of a third party service. Activation request may be created to contain the username and password. Once the activation request is transmitted to mediator server mediator application may activate the third party service associated with service component by using the activation request to log into an account within that third party service. In the present embodiment device processor may obtain the username password and other relevant credential information from credential file and automatically input the username password and other relevant credential information into activation interface .

Mediator server of using mediator application of may be configured to transmit a successful verification to playback device of upon successfully activating the third party service associated with service components . As explained previously a successful activation may entail that third party service successfully verifying the activation request and allowing mediator server to log into a user account of that third party service. Accordingly upon a successful verification mediator server may establish access to a user account within that third party service.

Playback device upon receiving the successful verification may update display device with login success interface . If service component may have already been activated or activation results in failure then service component may simply display a message stating that activation for the associated third party service has previously been performed or has presently failed. In one embodiment service components and may only be used to activate or deactivated their associated third party services under menu .

Mediator application of may be further configured to implement a user induced interaction for a third party service that has been activated. The user induced interaction may comprise posting a public status update or any other interactive actions allowed by the plurality of service components during playback of content from digital video disc of in playback device of . Together share button viewing options button and exit button may comprise a pop up menu that may be accessible while playback device may be presenting movie scene from digital video disc . Share button viewing options button and exit button may be any type of conventional graphical button. Share button may be used to share a text message or post a status update with any third party services that may be activated. Using share button may cause text message dialog containing a predetermined message to appear. Individual message may be used to replace any predetermined messages in text message dialog . Post message button which may be any type of graphical button may be used to cause mediator application to post individual message into a third party service. In the present embodiment the user may direct pop up menu to display additional buttons corresponding to additional categories from the metadata file associated with services list of .

In one embodiment after using post message button in services interface may appear. Any combination of service components may be selected to cause mediator application of to transmit individual message of to the third party services associated with the selected service components . In one embodiment service component may be associated with Twitter service component may be associated with Google Plus and service component may be associated with Facebook. In one embodiment service component may be selected to receive individual message . Such a selection may cause mediator server of to post individual message into an account in Facebook.

When mediator application of successfully implements a user induced interaction such as posting a status update by using service components of the status update may be displayed in the appropriate third party services such as a social networking service like Facebook for example and success dialog may appear within display device . Success dialog may be any type of dialog with a text message indicating a successful implementing of the user induced interaction. In one embodiment if mediator server fails to post the text message into the selected third party service then mediator server using mediator application may display an error message on display device . Furthermore in one embodiment of the invention if the selected third party service has not been activated then mediator server using mediator application may transmit a notification to playback device indicating that the selected third party service requires activation and device processor of may automatically replace pop up menu with display menu of in order to allow the user to create an activation request for a selected third party service.

Referring to step of flowchart in and environment of step of flowchart comprises mediator application receiving from playback device a service request for services list . As previously explained a service request such as a BD Live access request for example may contain a request services list in mediator server .

Referring to step of flowchart in environment of step of flowchart comprises mediator application sending services list for presenting on display device in response to receiving the service request from step . As previously explained mediator server using mediator application may transmit services list to playback device in response to receiving service request. Mediator server may create an exact duplicate of services list to send to playback device .

Referring to step of flowchart in environment of and diagram of step of flowchart comprises mediator application receiving an activation request for a third party service listed in services list . As previously explained playback device may transmit an activation request to mediator server . The activation request may be associated with a particular third party service listed in services list .

Referring to step of flowchart in environment of step of flowchart comprises mediator application activating a third party service in response to receiving the activation request from step . As previously explained mediator application may use information contained in the activation request to connect to the third party service associated with the activation request by logging into an account within that third party service.

Thus a system and method for transmitting a services list to a playback device for a digital video disc has been disclosed. By storing an updatable services list containing information on available third party services mediator server may send such services list to playback device in order for playback device to present a list of dynamically adjustable third party services for a digital video disc on a display device. Accordingly by programming a digital video disc such as a Blu ray disc according to an API using a mediator server a dynamically adjustable services list may be supported without changing the disc application code.

From the above description of the invention it is manifest that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts of the present invention without departing from its scope. Moreover while the invention has been described with specific reference to certain embodiments a person of ordinary skills in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. As such the described embodiments are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. It should also be understood that the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described herein but is capable of many rearrangement modifications and substitutions without departing from the scope of the invention.

