---

title: Systems and methods for broadcast audience interaction and participation
abstract: A broadcast audience interaction and feedback system may discover and activate a recording function of a portable device of a user to record audio and/or video of media content output by a media device in proximity to the user. The audio or video data may be used to identify the content by matching audio or video fingerprints or signatures of the data recorded by the portable device with separately generated signatures or fingerprints associated with the content. Additional entities may be automatically associated with the content via capturing of metadata or closed captioning data during the content, OCR of displayed text in the content, or detection of other such entities. In some implementations, the portable device may also capture feedback from the user, including cheering, applause, and laughter, as well as explicit questions or comments, voting choices, etc. The feedback may be identified, and queries generated or additional functions performed based on the identified feedback, the identified media content, and/or one or more entities associated with the identified media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491517&OS=09491517&RS=09491517
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09491517
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150303
---
Television audience participation systems allow viewers to provide feedback or vote via short message service SMS text messaging calls to dedicated telephone numbers or via dedicated buttons on a remote control. However these systems typically either require multiple steps by the viewer such as navigating a voice menu system by telephone or utilize complex hardware that may be unintuitive for the user. Furthermore many such systems require users to remember instructions or phone numbers displayed on the screen for short periods of time or send specific codes that may be difficult to remember. Newer systems attempt to overcome these deficiencies with smartphone applications however different apps may exist for each broadcaster content provider or show with different methods of interaction increasing confusion and user frustration.

The present disclosure is directed to systems and methods for using standard audio queries in a content matching or audience feedback system with audio received by a user s computing device e.g. tablet smartphone laptop wearable computer etc. or by a dedicated device e.g. set top box smart television . The audio may be used to identify content output by a display device to a user by listening to watermarks providing audio fingerprints to a content matching service etc. In other implementations a set top box or smart television may monitor metadata closed captioning or OCR of displayed text to identify a displayed program. The same microphone of the user s device may be used to monitor feedback from the user including cheering applause and laughter as well as explicit questions or comments voting choices etc. In some implementations the user s device may be automatically discovered in response to broadcast requests from the set top box or smart television and may enter into an always listening mode responsive to determining that the viewer is watching television. In other implementations the user s device may be activated by a user interaction or query and in response begin content matching.

Audio may be obtained from user devices responsive to the user consenting or opting in to the collection or feedback system. In some implementations users may be panel members such as users that have joined a single source measurement panel or audience measurement panel. Audio capture may also be temporarily paused or permanently disabled by the user or the user may withdraw consent and cease participating in the feedback system at any time. Audio capture or information about the audio may also be anonymized or made ambiguous stripped or cleaned of any personally identifying information and or encrypted for transmission.

In some implementations viewer interaction may be recorded measured and or rebroadcast to provide gamification features or user generated content. In one such implementation via the same system a program may encourage viewers to sing along to a song to be entered into a drawing to receive concert tickets. Recorded clips may be provided to the content provider for rebroadcast to other viewers. In another implementation viewers may easily mark broadcast or displayed content for purchase or subsequent search such as products displayed or background music played during a program segment.

One implementation disclosed herein is a method for broadcast audience interaction. The method includes broadcasting by a first device associated with a media output device to a portable device a discovery signal receipt of the discovery signal causing the portable device to activate a microphone of the portable device. The method also includes receiving by the first device a segment of audio output by the media output device and an audio interaction of a user recorded by the microphone of the portable device. The method further includes determining by the first device that the audio interaction of the user is not output by the media output device. The method also includes generating by the first device a first identifier of the audio interaction of the user and a second identifier of the segment of audio output by the media device and transmitting by the first device to a measurement system the first identifier and the second identifier the measurement system recording an identification of an item of content corresponding to the segment of audio output by the media device and an interaction with the item of content.

In some implementations of the method the received segment of audio output is recorded by the first device and the microphone of the portable device and determining that the audio interaction of the user is not output by the media output device further comprises subtracting the segment of audio output recorded by the first device from the audio interaction of the user to generate an isolated audio interaction of the user. In other implementations determining that the audio interaction of the user is not output by the media output device further comprises identifying a high correlation between a prior segment of audio output by the media output device and audio recorded by the microphone of the portable device and a lower correlation between the segment of audio output by the media output device and the audio interaction of the user. In still other implementations transmitting the first identifier and the second identifier to the measurement system further causes the measurement system to compare the first identifier to a plurality of identifiers of items of content and the measurement system records the identification of the item of content corresponding to the segment of audio output by the media device responsive to the comparison.

In another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for broadcast audience interaction. The method includes receiving by a portable device a discovery signal broadcast by a second device associated with a media output device. The method also includes activating a microphone of the portable device by the device responsive to reception of the discovery signal. The method further includes recording a segment of audio output by the media output device and an audio interaction by a user via the microphone by the portable device. The method also includes transmitting an identification of the recorded segment of audio and the recorded audio interaction by the portable device to the second device. The second device distinguishes the recorded segment of audio from the recorded audio interaction.

In some implementations the method includes transmitting a device identifier by the portable device to the second device responsive to receiving the discovery signal. In other implementations the method includes generating a fingerprint of the recorded segment of audio and transmitting the identification of the recorded segment of audio further comprises transmitting the fingerprint of the recorded segment of audio. In still other implementations the method includes generating a fingerprint of the recorded audio interaction and transmitting the identification of the recorded audio interaction further comprises transmitting the fingerprint of the recorded audio interaction. In yet still other implementations the identification of the recorded segment of audio and the recorded audio interaction are provided to a feedback system configured to associate an identification of the interaction with an item of media content associated with the recorded segment of audio.

In still another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a system for broadcast audience interaction. The system includes a first receiver at a measurement location configured for receiving an item of media. The system also includes a fingerprint generator configured for generating a first fingerprint from the received item of media. The system further includes a correlation engine executed a processor of a device the correlation engine configured for receiving a second fingerprint generated from a segment of the item of media recorded from a media output device by a client device at a client location and identifying a correlation between the first fingerprint and the second fingerprint. The system also includes a feedback engine executed by the processor configured for receiving a recording of feedback of an audience member by the client device and associating the feedback with the item of media responsive to the identified correlation between the first fingerprint and the second fingerprint.

In some implementations the correlation engine is further configured for comparing the second fingerprint with a plurality of fingerprints generated by the fingerprint generator. In a further implementation the correlation engine is further configured for identifying the correlation between the first fingerprint and the second fingerprint responsive to the correlation between the first fingerprint and the second fingerprint exceeding a correlation between the second fingerprint and any other fingerprints of the plurality of fingerprints.

In other implementations the correlation engine is further configured for generating a confidence score of the correlation between the first fingerprint and the second fingerprint. In a further implementation the correlation engine is further configured for increasing the confidence score responsive to an identification of a correlation between a third fingerprint generated by the fingerprint generator from the received item of media prior or subsequent to the first fingerprint and a fourth fingerprint generated from a corresponding prior or subsequent segment of the item of media recorded from the media output device by the client device.

In still other implementations the feedback engine is further configured for associating the feedback with an entity associated with the item of media in an entity database. In a further implementation the system includes an entity detector configured to generate the association of the entity and the item of media responsive to detection of the entity in the segment of the received item of media. In another further implementation the feedback engine is further configured to transmit a query to a search provider comprising an identification of the entity and an identification of the feedback. In a yet still further implementation the query further comprises a device identifier of the client device. In a still yet further implementation receipt of the query by the search provider causes the search provider to transmit a response to the client device comprising the identification of the entity. In other implementations the feedback engine is further configured to determine responsive to a comparison of the recording of feedback to one or more predetermined feedback signatures whether the feedback is positive or negative and to transmit a corresponding positive or negative feedback indicator to a content provider.

These implementations are mentioned not to limit or define the scope of the disclosure but to provide an example of an implementation of the disclosure to aid in understanding thereof. Particular implementations may be developed to realize one or more of the following advantages.

The systems and methods described herein provide an intuitive yet highly interactive experience for audience members of a broadcast allowing them to engage with and provide feedback for broadcast content at their convenience in a natural way. An input device such as a microphone or camera may detect feedback or an interaction of an audience member of the broadcast. In some implementations the input device may be a microphone or camera of a smart phone tablet or other portable or wearable device of the audience member. In one implementation the input device may be activated to detect feedback or interactions manually by the audience member such as via a button gesture or spoken code while in another implementation the input device may be activated to detect feedback or interactions automatically via a broadcast discovery or activation signal transmitted by a second device associated with a media output device such as a set top box smart television cable or satellite receiver home theater system router or WiFi gateway or any other such device.

In one implementation audio received by a microphone such as a microphone of a portable device of the audience member may be used to identify content output by a media output device e.g. television radio computer etc. by recording audible or sub audible watermarks tones or other data and generating audio fingerprints or providing the recordings to a content matching service. In other implementations a media device such as set top box or smart television may monitor metadata closed captioning or OCR of displayed text to identify a displayed program. The microphone and or camera of the audience member s device or a microphone and or camera of the media device may be used to monitor feedback on or interactions with the broadcast content from the audience member. In some implementations feedback may include verbal or non verbal responses to content of a broadcast including cheering clapping laughing booing singing along or other such responses. In other implementations feedback may include interactions such as voting commenting or expressing spoken opinions which may be helpful for competition or game shows political debates sports events live music performances etc. In still other implementations audience member interactions may include queries such as requests for information about the broadcast content songs played within the content or people or products appearing in the content. In yet still other implementations audience member interactions may include commands such as commands to share the identified content with a friend or other identified user.

In some implementations viewer interaction may be recorded measured and or rebroadcast to provide gamification features or user generated content. In one such implementation via the systems discussed herein a program may encourage viewers to sing along to a song to be entered into a drawing to receive concert tickets. Recorded clips may be provided to the content provider for rebroadcast to other viewers. In another implementation viewers may easily mark broadcast or displayed content for purchase or subsequent search such as products displayed or background music played during a program segment.

In some implementations a client device may generate fingerprints or identifiers of recorded segments of content and may provide the fingerprints or identifiers to a measurement feedback system for identification via a network . In other implementations a client device may transmit the recorded segments of content to a measurement feedback system via network which may generate the fingerprints or identifiers. The measurement feedback system may also receive broadcast content or fingerprints or identifiers from a broadcaster or content provider or via one or more local capture devices discussed in more detail below. The measurement feedback system may compare fingerprints or recorded segments from the client device to fingerprints or recorded segments from the broadcaster or content provider and identify based on a match or statistical correlation between fingerprints that the multimedia system was outputting an identified item of content or broadcast program.

Additionally the client device may also record interactions or feedback from an audience members such as verbal queries commands or comments or non verbal feedback such as cheers or applause. Measurement feedback system may similarly receive the interactions or feedback or generated fingerprints of the interactions or feedback. The measurement feedback system may compare the received interactions or feedback or generated fingerprints to a database of other interactions or fingerprints to identify based on a match or statistical correlation the type of query command or other interaction. The corresponding query or command may be performed on the identified item of content or broadcast program or an identification of the feedback may be provided to the broadcaster or content provider for audience analysis and content programming decisions or for inclusion within the broadcast. In some implementations the measurement feedback system may transmit a query or command based on the audience member s interaction and the identified item of content to a search system or a social network provider providing the audience member with easy access to additional information and or sharing or commenting services.

Content may be received by a client system at a receiver which may comprise an antenna or satellite dish and demodulator or decoder a cable receiver a digital television DTV decoder a set top box a DVR a computing device or any other type and form of device for receiving content with closed captioning data. The receiver may be connected to a multimedia system such as a television home theater system or any other type and form of device for displaying audio and or video content received and decoded by a receiver . In some implementations the receiver and multimedia system may be combined as in many televisions with attached antennas or included cable demodulators smart or Internet attached televisions or other such devices.

A user at a client location may carry or have nearby a client device . Client device may be a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer smart phone wearable computing device entertainment or video game console smart television set top box or any other type and form of device. In some implementations client device may include a microphone video camera touch screen keyboard or other input device to receive user feedback and or interactions. Interactions may include queries or requests for information to a search system via a network commands to a social network provider or other feedback provided via a feedback system to a broadcaster or other content provider. In some implementations client device may also record segments of audio or video content output by the multimedia system or embedded watermarks within audio or video content output by the multimedia system including audible or sub audible tones or data bursts. In some implementations client device may receive metadata of content from a multimedia system or receiver such as via a Bluetooth WiFi NFC or other such communication method.

In some implementations client location may also include a capture device which may be separate from or integrated within a receiver and or multimedia system . Capture device may include audio or video inputs for receiving content from receiver and or multimedia system and for capturing segments of audio or video content metadata closed captioning data or any other such data including data in vertical or horizontal blanking intervals digital packet headers or any other form. In some implementations capture device may communicate via a network interface including a wired or wireless interface with receiver and or multimedia system . Capture device may be used to identify content output by multimedia system or may capture data for transmission to a measurement system for identification. In some implementations capture device may also include a microphone video camera or other input device for detecting feedback or interactions of an audience member.

In some implementations a receiver multimedia system or capture device may include a broadcast transmitter for broadcasting an identification or discovery signal. The signal may be received by a client device and trigger activation of a microphone camera or other input device when the client device is in the client location and accordingly when the audience member is present to receive content output by the multimedia system . In some implementations the signal may be a WiFi Bluetooth NFC or similar RF signal. In other implementations the signal may be an audible or subaudible tone noise burst recorded audio or similar data. In still other implementations the signal may be an infrared IR or an optical signal. In other implementations input devices of the client device may be activated by the audience member via an input device such as via a gesture button or spoken command or query e.g. allow me to participate what is this show or share this television program with my friend . As discussed in more detail below the device may interpret the command or query and record segments of audio or video in order to identify the content output by the multimedia system and fulfill the request or perform the commanded action.

Client device and or capture device may communicate via a network with a measurement feedback system search providers social network providers content providers or other such services. Network may be any form of computer network or combinations of networks that relay information between one or more client devices a measurement feedback system and one or more other devices and systems not illustrated e.g. web sites Internet service providers cable providers etc. . Network may include the Internet and or other types of data networks such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a cellular network satellite network or other types of data networks. Network may also include any number of computing devices e.g. computer servers routers network switches etc. that are configured to receive and or transmit data within network . Network may further include any number of hardwired and or wireless connections such that a client device may communicate wirelessly e.g. via WiFi cellular radio etc. with a transceiver that is hardwired e.g. via a fiber optic cable a CAT5 cable etc. to other computing devices in network . In some implementations a network may be a virtual network such as a virtual network between a plurality of virtual machines executed by a single physical machine or a abstract network such as an offline transfer of data via physically movable media e.g. a Sneakernet transferring data via tape media CD ROM flash media external hard drives floppy disks etc. .

Measurement feedback system sometimes referred to as an audience measurement system an audience feedback system or by other similar terms may include one or more computing devices storage devices capture devices receivers or other such devices. A measurement feedback system may be centralized or distributed. In many implementations a measurement system may include a plurality of receivers deployed in different geographic or broadcast markets to receive and identify local programming. Measurement system also receive content streams from a broadcaster or other content providers or other such identifications of content e.g. program guides or listings broadcast logs etc. . In some implementations a measurement system may include a receiver which may be similar to a receiver at a client location . Receiver may receive content from a broadcaster via terrestrial or satellite broadcast cable system Internet or any other such means and may output video to a measurement service fingerprint generator a closed captioning CC capture device an optical character recognition OCR detector a music detector a person detector or other such devices. In some implementations a receiver may be in the same geographical region as a receiver . As discussed above in one such implementation at least one receiver may be deployed in major cities or broadcast markets to capture the broadcasts from a local broadcaster . In other implementations a receiver may be deployed elsewhere and may receive a similar but different broadcast. A receiver may receive a national network broadcast via a cable system while a receiver may receive a terrestrial broadcast from a local affiliate of the national network broadcaster. Such local affiliate broadcasts may include similar content but may have different interstitial advertising local newscasts or other inserted or modified content. Although only one receiver is illustrated in some implementations a plurality of receivers may be deployed at a location e.g. one per broadcaster to be measured. In other implementations a receiver may have a plurality of tuners demodulators or sub receivers and may be able to receive and output a plurality of broadcasts simultaneously to a corresponding plurality of measurement service capture devices and detectors and or fingerprint generators .

Federal Communications Commission FCC regulations require all United States broadcasters to provide closed captioning for television programs. In analog television broadcasts compliant with National Television System Committee NTSC standards closed captioning is encoded into line 21 of the vertical blanking interval in EIA 608 format developed by the Electronic Industries Alliance EIA and frequently referred to as line 21 captioning . For digital television broadcasts compliant with Advanced Television System Committee ATSC standards closed captioning is provided via three encoded streams two of which provide backward compatibility with NTSC decoders the third providing up to 63 additional captioning streams encoded in EIA 708 format sometimes referred to as CEA 708 format . As the closed captioning is content specific the encoded text may be used to identify specific programs being watched by a viewer and accordingly may be used for audience measurement via the systems and methods disclosed herein. Because each broadcaster already is generating and embedding the captioning these systems and methods do not require any additional encoders to be installed at stations or cable providers. Many other countries require similar embedding of close captioning or subtitle data or closed captioning may be provided by a private entity that may be used in a similar fashion e.g. subtitle requirements promulgated by the Office of Communications Ofcom in the United Kingdom Red Bee Media in Australia etc. .

A CC capture device may receive the NTSC ATSC DVB and or ISDB video signal from a receiver e.g. cable or HDTV decoder set top box digital video recorder DVR receiver television output or other such source . The CC capture device may decode the closed captioning signal e.g. the encoded line 21 signal and or embedded EIA 708 streams for generation of a database of closed captioning text . The database may be populated via one or more CC capture devices receiving local or national broadcast signals or with data separately provided by broadcasters e.g. metadata text files ancillary data or other such transmissions .

Although shown grouped in a measurement system in some implementations a receiver need not be located in geographic proximity to a fingerprint generator capture device or detector and or correlation or feedback engines . In such implementations a receiver may communicate with a fingerprint generator capture device or detector via a network such as the Internet and or a fingerprint generator capture device or detector may communicate via a network with an measurement feedback system. In one implementation a receiver and or fingerprint generator capture device or detector may be deployed at a broadcast transmission site or studio and receive a pre transmitter video feed or a feed from a monitoring receiver at the site or studio and may transmit decoded closed captioning data or logs to a correlation engine via a network .

As discussed above in some implementations a measurement system may include a database or storage device storing closed captioning data referred to generally as a caption logs . Closed captioning data for the database may be received from the CC capture device or may be received directly from a broadcaster . In one implementation closed captioning data may be intercepted before encoding in the video signal and or decoded via a monitoring output at a broadcast site or studio and may be transmitted via a network for storage in a closed captioning database . In a similar implementation closed captioning data may be provided in non real time from the broadcaster for inclusion in a closed captioning database . In one implementation the broadcaster may separately provide text or data files of closed captioning data to be embedded in a video signal during broadcast of a movie or television program sometimes hours days or weeks in advance of broadcast. Similarly the broadcaster may provide text or data files of closed captioning data for one or more items of content in a VOD library.

Although shown separate from correlation engine in many implementations closed captioning data may be part of the correlation engine or maintained by the correlation engine . Accordingly in such implementations the correlation engine may receive closed captioning data from broadcaster s and or fingerprint generator capture device or detector and may store the data in the closed captioning database .

Closed captioning database may comprise a relational database flat file data file or any other type and form of database. In some implementations closed captioning text may be stored in the database as text. In other implementations a portion of closed captioning text e.g. a number of words or characters such as 5 words 8 words 10 words 50 words or any other such value an amount of data in a number of video fields such as closed captioning data from one video field 10 video fields or any other such value or an amount of data within a predetermined period of time such as closed captioning data embedded within 5 seconds of video 10 seconds of video or any other such value may be hashed or used as an input to a hashing algorithm with the result entered into the database or used as an index to an entry in the database. Closed captioning database may also include an identification of an item of content associated with the closed captioning data or portion of the closed captioning data. In implementations in which closed captioning data is received in non real time from a broadcaster the data may be explicitly identified as associated with an item of content. In other implementations in which closed captioning data is received via a receiver and decoded by a measurement service capture device the data may be associated with an item of content based on a broadcast schedule embedded metadata or other such information. In still other implementations the data may be associated with a channel and broadcast time that the content was received by a receiver and may be subsequently associated with the item of content based on a broadcast schedule such as during a subsequent step of audience measurement.

An audience measurement system may also include one or more fingerprint generators . Fingerprint generators may include hardware and or software for identifying items of content and or advertising provided by a broadcaster as part of a broadcast content stream. In some implementations fingerprint generators may generate audio and or video fingerprints of content items by sampling audio and or video data of the content items and calculating a hash of the resulting audio and or video data by decimating the audio and or video data e.g. by removing nine out of ten samples and hashing the decimated data by calculating a convolution of the audio data against the video data or otherwise creating a unique identifier for an item of content. Fingerprints may be stored in a fingerprint database and compared against other fingerprints to identify if a content item was previously provided in the same or a different broadcast stream. The same advertisement may be provided by a broadcaster on multiple channels at different times or a popular song may be played on multiple radio stations in a market at different times. Fingerprinting the audio and or video of such content may allow aggregated measurements of audience of the content as well as disambiguating search spikes to different instances of broadcast of the content. In some implementations fingerprints for content such as advertisements may be pre generated or added to a fingerprint database . The fingerprint generator may receive incoming audio or video and compare a fingerprint generated for the audio or video to fingerprints in the database . A match may allow the measurement system to recognize that a specific item of known content such as an advertisement is being broadcast. The measurement system may add an identification to a database to indicate that the known content was broadcast on a specified channel at a specified time.

As discussed above in many implementations a client device or capture device may generate fingerprints from recorded audio or video. Accordingly in such implementations client device or capture device may include a fingerprint generator . In other implementations client device or capture device may record audio or video segments and transmit the segments via a network to another device such as measurement system for processing by a fingerprint generator .

Measurement feedback system may also include a person detector . Person detector may be a server service daemon application routine or other executable logic for receiving and decoding frames of video and or still images and detecting and or identifying a person present within the image. In some implementations person detector may include a facial recognition system to identify and isolate regions of an image including a face e.g. via principal component analysis PCA using eigenfaces linear discriminate analysis LDA or any other such methods . In some implementations the person detector may identify a face within an image and provide a subset of the image including the face to a search provider or social networking system for matching to one or more similar images of an individual and or identify the individual. In other implementations the person detector may compare an identified face to a set of images of faces identified as included in media content. A broadcaster or content provider may include metadata with a broadcast or measurement system may identify via CC capture device or OCR detector text displayed in or transmitted with video including names of individuals e.g. actors participants etc. . Person detector may retrieve images of the individuals from a search provider or social network site and may compare identified faces in the video to the retrieved images. Utilizing such a priori knowledge may be significantly faster than searches that lack context.

Measurement feedback system may also include a music detector . Music detector may be a server service daemon application routine or other executable logic for receiving and isolating segments of audio and detecting and or identifying a song. In some implementations music detector may be similar to a fingerprint generator and search a database of music fingerprints to identify a match indicating a particular song was played. In a further implementation music detector may use a priori knowledge from closed captioning or text identified by CC capture device or OCR detector or metadata received from a broadcaster or content provider to identify a song or a set of likely songs to expedite match detection e.g. album or artist identifications . In a similar implementation music detector may detect indicators within OCR or CC data indicating music is playing e.g. musical note symbols in closed captioning text such as music playing etc. In another implementation music detector may include one or more filters and or detectors to identify segments including music within an audio stream. In one such implementation an audio signal may be low pass filtered to isolate low frequency signals and a sliding window algorithm may be used to detect periodic signals that may indicate drums or bass notes. Responsive to the presence of such periodic signals a fingerprint of the audio stream may be generated and compared to a database conversely if periodic signals are absent then the detector may assume that no music is being played. In other implementations music detector may use statistical analysis to identify features within audio common to music such as interchannel differences indicating stereo distribution periodic signals harmonically related tones distributions of high and low frequency signals beyond a vocal range etc. If such analysis indicates a likelihood of music above a threshold then in such implementations music detector may generate a fingerprint and compare the fingerprint to a music database. In other implementations music detector may simply compare received audio signals and or fingerprints to a music database without performing further detection filtering or analysis.

Measurement feedback system may also include an OCR detector . OCR detector sometimes referred to as a screen scraper may be a server service daemon application routine or other executable logic for receiving and decoding frames of video and or still images and detecting and or identifying text present within an image. OCR detector may scan regions with various sliding windows or block detection sizes to identify alphanumeric characters or other predefined symbols. In some implementations OCR detector may provide identified text to detectors to aid in identifying individuals or music.

Upon detecting and or identifying a person song or text the person detector music detector or OCR detector may store an identification of the identified element or entity in an entity database . Entity database may be a database flat file index relational database or any other type and form of data structure for storing an identification of an entity e.g. person song text keyword album artist etc. identified by a detector along with in some implementations a timestamp including day time time zone or any other such information a broadcast or content source and or metadata about the broadcast or content source e.g. channel uniform resource locator URL internet protocol IP address file name show name type genre producer publisher etc. . Entity database may accordingly store identifications of when entities were displayed or played during a broadcast along with additional identifiers such that the measurement feedback system may determine upon receipt of an identification of an identical entity from a client device or capture device that a multimedia system likely received the same broadcast. Entities may also be related to each other by time and broadcast source such as entities included in the same broadcast e.g. two actors in a scene a singer shown performing a song a product name and a celebrity spokesperson etc. . Accordingly if an audience member requests information on an entity in a broadcast such as an actor s filmography the broadcast may be identified via fingerprints of content received by the audience member s client device and or capture device the measurement feedback system may retrieve from the entity database an identification of an actor associated with the broadcast and with a timestamp equal to or shortly prior to the query and the measurement feedback system may direct a search provider to transmit the requested information to the client device based on the retrieved identification.

A measurement feedback system may include one or more correlation engines . A correlation engine may be an application service server daemon or other executable logic for comparing and correlating fingerprints watermarks metadata timestamps received audio or video or any other such data from a client device or capture device with fingerprints watermarks metadata timestamps received audio or video or any other such data from a fingerprint generator CC capture device or detector said latter data associated with a broadcast source and time. A correlation engine may thus identify based on the correlation between the received client data and measurement system generated data an item of media content output by the multimedia system and detected by the client or capture devices at a particular time indicating that an audience member associated with device was likely present and receiving the media content.

A correlation engine may include one or more computing devices servers desktop computers rack mount computers workstations or other devices. In some embodiments a correlation engine may be a virtual machine or machines executed by one or more physical machines such as in a cloud service or server farm. Correlation engines may be located in proximity to measurement service capture devices detectors and receivers or may be remote from the devices and may communicate with the devices over a network .

A correlation engine may compare a fingerprint of recorded audio or video from a client device or capture device referred to generally as a client fingerprint with one or more fingerprints in database referred to generally as a measurement fingerprint to identify a match. In one implementation upon receipt of a client fingerprint and timestamp from a client device or capture device or upon generating a client fingerprint from audio or video data received from said devices the correlation engine may compare the client fingerprint to a plurality of measurement fingerprints generated from media from a corresponding plurality of broadcast sources or channels at the same timestamp. In a further implementation to allow for differences between timestamps the correlation engine may compare the client fingerprint to a plurality of measurement fingerprints in a sliding window around the client timestamp such as within a ten minute range of the client timestamp. Matches need not be exact in many implementations due to differences in levels extraneous noise imprecise or uncorrelated start times etc. but may be considered to be matching if the two fingerprints correspond above a threshold. In other implementations a client timestamp may not be required rather the correlation engine may compare the received client fingerprint to measurement fingerprints over a prior period such as a five minute period. This is based on an assumption that the delay between the client device capturing a segment of audio or video generating a fingerprint and transmitting the fingerprint to the measurement system will likely be significantly less than this period. Correlation engine may use any type of analysis to compare fingerprints including PCA LDA or any other such statistical analysis methods. In some implementations correlation engine may generate confidence scores for the match of the client fingerprint to each measurement fingerprint and identify as matching a measurement fingerprint with a highest confidence score. In a further implementation correlation engine may adjust confidence scores based on historical data for the client device e.g. increasing confidence scores for fingerprints from frequently watched broadcast sources or channels increasing confidence scores for a broadcast channel responsive to detecting a match from the same broadcast channel during an immediately prior time period etc. .

Measurement feedback system may also include a feedback engine . Feedback engine may be an application server service daemon routine or other executable logic for receiving and processing identifications of feedback queries commands or other interactions from audience members. A feedback engine may receive over a network feedback or interactions recorded by a client device or capture device via a microphone and or camera or input via an input device of the client device or capture device . Feedback may be transmitted in a raw recorded state e.g. an audio or video file or may be identified by the client device or capture device and transmitted as an identifier. In one such implementation a client device may record applause via a microphone and identify the applause via its characteristic short bursts of noise matching a predetermined signature. The client device may then transmit a code identifying applause to the feedback engine . In another implementation the client device may measure characteristics of the feedback e.g. volume of cheers or boos and may transmit the measurements to the feedback engine .

Feedback may also include commands or queries which may be identified by a speech to text engine executed by the client device capture device feedback engine or another system in communication with the measurement feedback system . Upon receiving a query for information about broadcast content e.g. a request for a name of a song actor biography product information website transcript of content etc. feedback engine may determine whether media output by multimedia system has been identified by a correlation engine . If not the feedback engine may request the client device or a capture device in the client location to provide an identification of content or a fingerprint or segment of recorded content from multimedia system to the correlation engine which may identify the corresponding broadcast source and time as discussed above. The feedback engine may then retrieve data from caption logs and or entity database to identify entities or text corresponding to the request. In some implementations feedback engine may transmit an identification of the entities or text to the client device while in other implementations feedback engine may direct a search provider to retrieve and provide corresponding data to client device e.g. a search for a biography of an identified actor on screen during a segment responsive to identification of the segment identification of the query and identification of the entity corresponding to the segment and query . In a similar implementation upon receiving a command or identification of a command from the client device e.g. share this content with my friend Joe the feedback engine may transmit a corresponding request to a social networking service based on the content identified by correlation engine .

As discussed above encoders may receive closed captioning data from one or more sources such as a caption input interface and or a closed captioning data file and may encode or embed the data in EIA 608 and or EIA 708 format or other similar formats. Closed captioning may be inserted for live programming such as live sports or news broadcast events via input interfaces e.g. computing devices keyboards text to speech converters etc. or may be provided by program producers or third party services for pre recorded content such as movies or television programs. Closed captioning data files may be sent to an encoder via automation or other systems for synchronized embedding during playback for on air broadcasting.

In some implementations output of an encoder may be provided to a transmitter such as a satellite transmitter terrestrial transmitter microwave transmitter or cable modulator may be provided to a web server for streamed broadcasting and or may be provided to a VOD server for transfer to a client responsive to a request. In some implementations media content from a source and closed captioning data may be provided separately to a VOD server without embedding or for embedding via a client side interface.

In many implementations a device may include a processor . Processor may comprise any type and form of processing unit including a microprocessor application specific integrated circuit ASIC FPGA etc. or combinations of these or other processing units. In many implementations processor may be a multi core processor or an array of processors. A device may also include memory which may include but is not limited to electronic optical magnetic or any other storage devices capable of providing processor with program instructions. Memory may include a floppy disk CD ROM DVD magnetic disk memory chip ROM RAM EEPROM EPROM flash memory optical media or any other suitable memory from which processor can read instructions and in some implementations to which processor can write recorded audio or video segments metadata closed captioning data audio or video fingerprints or other such data for transmission via network interface . The instructions may include code from any suitable computer programming language such as but not limited to C C C Java JavaScript Perl HTML XML Python and Visual Basic.

In some implementations device may include a network interface for transmitting data to a feedback measurement system and or entity database or caption log . A network interface may comprise any type and form of network interface including a wired interface e.g. Ethernet including 10 Base T 100 Base T or 1000 Base T Gigabit a wireless interface e.g. 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11.ac Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy Near field Communication NFC a cellular interface or any other type of interface for transmitting data over a network. In some implementations network interface may comprise a parallel or serial interface such as a USB interface an IEEE 1394 Firewire interface an RS 232 interface an RS 485 interface or any other type and form of interface to another computing device. In many implementations a second computing device may serve as an intermediary for communications to a measurement feedback system. In one such implementation a capture device may communicate via a USB interface with a desktop computer which may transmit captured closed captioning data via an Ethernet interface to a network gateway or switch connected to the Internet for transmission to a measurement feedback system. In such implementations network interface may be referred to as a communications interface. In some implementations the device may store decoded and or hashed data in a memory for subsequent synchronization or transfer via a computing device connected to a network .

In some implementations a device may include an audio and or video input . Input may be any type and form of audio or video input including an analog composite or component video input a baseband or RF video input a digital video input or any other type of input. In some implementations a capture device may include a video splitter and a video output not illustrated allowing pass through of audio or video signals. In one such implementation the capture device may be deployed as an intermediary device between a video output of a receiver and a video input of a television or other display or between a receiver and a fingerprint generator of a measurement system. Accordingly the capture device may include a video input for connection to the receiver a video splitter for splitting the input signal for processing by a closed captioning decoder or detector and a video output for connection other devices.

In many implementations a client device may not include an audio video input or may not utilize an input for practicing the methods discussed herein but may instead use an input device such as a microphone camera or other interface for recording interactions or feedback from an audience member as well as media content. Similarly in many implementations a capture device installed at a client location may include a camera microphone or other input device for recording such interactions or feedback allowing interactive operation without requiring a client device .

The output of an audio video input and or microphone camera or other input may be provided to a processor for transmission via network interface or in some implementations may be provided to a fingerprint generator . Fingerprint generator similar to fingerprint generator may comprise hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. In one implementation generator may comprise a CMOS integrated circuit IC such as a MC144144 series IC manufactured by Motorola Inc. of Schaumburg Ill. or an equivalent IC a programmable IC or field programmable gate array FPGA or any other type and form of circuit or combination of circuits. In another implementation the device may include a software fingerprint generator executed by a processor which may read a digital input or output of an analog to digital converter connected to inputs or .

Generator may generate audio and or video fingerprints of input signals or data segments by sampling audio and or video data of the signal and calculating a hash of the resulting audio and or video data by decimating the audio and or video data e.g. by removing nine out of ten samples and hashing the decimated data by calculating a convolution of the audio data against the video data or otherwise creating a unique identifier for a recorded segment of data.

In some implementations a device may include a device identifier . Device identifier may be an alphanumeric string data string serial number MAC address IP address username or account name GUID cookie random or pseudorandom number or any other type and form of identifier including combinations of these or other identifiers to identify the device . In some implementations the device identifier may be fixed to the device or preconfigured in the device such as a manufacturer serial number or MAC address while in other implementations the device identifier may be dynamically set by a panel provider by the measurement system or other entity such as via a cookie or username. In some implementations a unique or new device identifier may be set for each communication to the measurement system while in other implementations the device identifier may not be changed or may be changed periodically e.g. hourly daily weekly etc. or at other intervals e.g. on restart of the capture device login to an internet service etc. . Device identifier may be transmitted to the measurement system before with or subsequent to a transfer of fingerprint data or recorded segments of media audio or video such that the data may be identified as having been captured by the device . In one embodiment a device may log in or establish an authenticated session with a feedback measurement system using the device identifier . In another embodiment the device may transmit recorded data or fingerprints in the body of a packet with the device identifier included in the header of the packet. Recorded or fingerprint data may be transmitted via a RESTful protocol HTTP request e.g. a POST or GET request with captioning data as a parameter value pair or via any other such application session or presentation layer protocol. In other implementations recorded data or fingerprints may be transmitted via an options field of a transport layer protocol packet header such as a TCP or UDP packet. In other implementations recorded data or fingerprints may be provided as a serial bit stream.

In some implementations a device may include a power supply . Power supply may comprise a battery AC power supply DC power supply USB power supply Power over Ethernet PoE power supply inductive power supply or any other type and form of power supply. Although illustrated internal to a device in many implementations a power supply may be external from device such as an external AC to DC converter.

A measurement feedback system may include one or more processors similar to a processor . Processor may comprise any type and form of processing unit including a microprocessor application specific integrated circuit ASIC FPGA etc. or combinations of these or other processing units. In many implementations processor may be a multi core processor or an array of processors. Measurement feedback system may also include memory similar to memory which may include but is not limited to electronic optical magnetic or any other storage devices capable of providing processor with program instructions. Memory may include a floppy disk CD ROM DVD magnetic disk memory chip ROM RAM EEPROM EPROM flash memory optical media or any other suitable memory from which processor can read instructions and in some implementations to which processor can write recorded audio or video segments metadata closed captioning data audio or video fingerprints or other such data. The instructions may include code from any suitable computer programming language such as but not limited to C C C Java JavaScript Perl HTML XML Python and Visual Basic.

Measurement feedback system may include one or more storage device or capture device interfaces and one or more network interfaces . As discussed above in many implementations a client device or capture device may communicate with a measurement feedback system via a network to a network interface . Network interface may comprise any type and form of network interface such as a wired interface e.g. Ethernet a wireless interface e.g. 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11.ac Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy NFC interface etc. a cellular interface or any other type of interface for receiving data from devices . Network interface may also be used for communicating with a search service social networking service content provider broadcaster or any other such devices or services. In some implementations network interface may also be used for providing music or facial recognition data to a music matching service or facial recognition database service and for receiving identifications of matching entities.

In many implementations as discussed above a measurement feedback system may be deployed locally to a fingerprint generator CC capture device or detector . In such implementations the generators or detectors may connect via a network interface or via a capture device interface including a parallel or serial interface such as a USB interface an IEEE 1394 Firewire interface an RS 232 interface an RS 485 interface or any other type and form of interface. In many implementations a measurement feedback system may connect to one or more storage devices such as hard drives flash drives redundant arrays of independent disks RAID arrays network attached storage NAS devices storage area network SAN devices or any other type and form of storage. Such storage devices may store closed captioning data as discussed above received from one or more broadcasters or one or more audience measurement capture devices an entity database a fingerprint database or any other such data. In some implementations feedback or interactions received from client devices or capture devices may be logged or stored in a feedback database which may be analyzed and or provided to broadcasters or content providers.

Memory may include a correlation engine . As discussed above correlation engine may comprise an application service server daemon routine subroutine or other executable logic for comparing and correlating fingerprints watermarks metadata timestamps received audio or video or any other such data from a client device or capture device with fingerprints watermarks metadata timestamps received audio or video or any other such data from a fingerprint generator CC capture device or detector said latter data associated with a broadcast source and time.

Memory may also include a feedback engine . As discussed above feedback engine may be an application server service daemon routine or other executable logic for receiving and processing identifications of feedback queries commands or other interactions from audience members. A feedback engine may receive over a network feedback or interactions recorded by a client device or capture device via a microphone and or camera or input via an input device of the client device or capture device .

At step a client device may receive a discovery signal or trigger signal broadcast from a capture device or other device associated with a media device. As discussed above the discovery signal may be broadcast continuously or periodically via WiFi NFC Bluetooth or any other similar short range wireless communication protocol or may be broadcast via a LAN to a client location. In some implementations the signal may be broadcast during presentation of media on a media device e.g. while the media device is turned on . In other implementations the client device may broadcast a presence signal and the capture device or device associated with the media device may respond with the discovery signal responsive to receiving the presence signal.

Upon and responsive to receiving the discovery signal at step the client device may active a microphone camera or other input device of the client device. In some implementations the microphone camera or other input device may be activated for a predetermined period of time until expiration of a timer. The timer may be reset responsive to receipt of the broadcast discovery signal which may be rebroadcast while the media device is displaying or playing content. Accordingly once the media device is off or the client device is out of range the timer may expire and the microphone camera or other input may be deactivated.

At step the client device may record a segment of media output by the media device. The recorded segment may be of predetermined length such as 10 seconds 30 seconds or any other length. The recorded segment may be provided to a fingerprint generator for processing or network interface for transmission to a measurement service while a subsequent segment is being recorded. Accordingly in some implementations the client device may record media to a buffer such as a ring buffer while reading from the buffer at another position.

At step a fingerprint generator of the client device or in implementations in which the raw recorded segment is provided to a measurement service the measurement service may generate a fingerprint or identifier for the segment. As discussed above generating the fingerprint may include sampling audio and or video data of the segment and calculating a hash of the resulting audio and or video data by decimating the audio and or video data e.g. by removing nine out of ten samples and hashing the decimated data by calculating a convolution of the audio data against the video data or otherwise creating a unique identifier for an item of content. In implementations in which a fingerprint generator of the client device generates the fingerprint said fingerprint may be provided to a measurement service.

At step the measurement service may compare the generated or received fingerprint to a database of fingerprints generated by a fingerprint generator of the measurement service on data received from broadcasters and or content providers. As discussed above the comparison may be performed on fingerprints generated within a predetermined period of time of the client fingerprint such as the prior 5 or 10 minutes across a plurality of broadcast or content sources. A match may be identified via any type and form of statistical analysis and identification may include generating a confidence score for a match filtering confidence scores based on a threshold and or adjusting confidence scores based on historical a priori knowledge of likely broadcast sources or content. If no matching fingerprint is identified then steps may be repeated. If a matching fingerprint is identified then in some implementations the measurement system may identify the content and or broadcast source corresponding to the matching fingerprint and identify the client device as being in the audience of display of the content.

As discussed above client devices may be automatically discovered and have recording capabilities activated when in range of a media device. In other implementations a user of the client device may manually activate a recording or feedback or interaction mode at step such as via launch of an application activating a user interface element performing a gesture speaking a command word etc. Responsive to the user activation at step the microphone camera or other input device may be activated as discussed above. In some implementations a timer may be activated responsive to the user request and upon expiration of the timer the microphone camera or other input may be deactivated.

In some implementations at step the client device may record feedback or an interaction by an audience member. As discussed above recording feedback or an interaction may include recording cheers applause boos singing commentary questions or commands. In some implementations the recorded feedback or interaction may be provided to a feedback engine of a measurement service via a network interface of the client device. At step the client device or a feedback engine of a measurement feedback service may identify the feedback based on comparison to a signature or may generate a fingerprint for the feedback as discussed above. In implementations in which the client device identifies the feedback or generates a fingerprint the identifier or fingerprint may be provided to a feedback engine. If feedback is not identified then steps may be repeated.

In many implementations audio or video of the media content may be received or recorded by the client device while recording the user feedback and the measurement feedback system may be required to distinguish the user feedback from the media content. In one implementation user queries or commands may be preceded by a command word or phrase such that detection of the command word or phrase indicates that the following speech is a request or command of the user. In another implementation user queries or commands may be at a higher volume than media content as the user is closer to the portable device than the media device. In still another implementation if a first segment of content is identified as matching a segment of media content with a high confidence a subsequent second segment of content is identified as matching the segment of media content with a lower confidence level and a subsequent third segment of content is identified as matching the segment of media content with a high confidence level the middle segment may be inferred as including feedback which may be further identified or compared to feedback signatures.

In still other implementations a client device and capture device may both record segments of media content output by a media device simultaneously. The capture device may record the segments via a direct or wired connection to the media device or a receiver while the client device uses a microphone. Partial or total correlation between the two recorded segments or fingerprints of the segments may indicate that the portable device is present during the broadcast. During segments with lower correlation signals recorded by the capture device may be subtracted from signals recorded by the client device to isolate user feedback provided during the segment.

As shown in some implementations responsive to automatic activation responsive to a discovery signal the system may first generate an identifier of an item of content and then generate an identified of user feedback or interaction. In other implementations the user feedback or interaction may be identified first particularly if the feedback is received shortly after activation of the input of the client device. Accordingly at step the client device may determine whether an identifier of media content has been identified. If not then steps to similar to steps may be repeated.

At step responsive to identifying a playing item of content and an item of feedback or interaction in some implementations an identifier of the feedback or interaction may be provided to the broadcaster or content provider that generated or provided the item of content. In other implementations as discussed above queries or commands for a search provider or social network service may be generated based on the identified item of content and the identified feedback and in some implementations one or more entities associated with the item of content.

At step the feedback engine may compare the fingerprint or signature to a database of signatures or fingerprints to identify the type and content of the feedback request or command. Signatures may be pre generated as a result of user specific training or general population training and may include signatures for applause signatures for cheering and signatures for booing as well as signatures for various spoken words and or phonemes. Speech to text systems may be used to detect spoken commands or requests and generate corresponding text for creating search queries or commands to social networking or media services.

At step the feedback engine may determine if the user feedback matches a signature of an identification query or request to identify a person song product program album or other entity in the media content. If so at step the feedback engine may identify a query target such as the entity identified in the request. The feedback engine may identify the target entity via the speech to text output as discussed above. At step the feedback engine may retrieve an identification of an entity from an entity database and or closed captioning transcript corresponding to the identified media content output by the media device during or slightly before or after the recordation of the user query by the client device. As discussed above the entity database may include one or more entities e.g. actors songs artists producers etc. associated with an item of media content. Each entity may be identified by a corresponding type identifier such that if a user requests to know the song playing during an item of media content the feedback engine may use the identification of the media content to retrieve the corresponding song entity identifier from the entity database and generate a response for the user. Accordingly in such implementations at step the feedback engine may retrieve an identifier of the target entity from the entity database and or transcript and at step may respond to the client request with the retrieved identification.

At step in a similar implementation the feedback engine may identify if the feedback is a sharing request or command e.g. share this program with my friend . The feedback engine may perform the identification using similar signatures or speech to text engines as discussed above. In a further implementation the feedback engine may receive from the client device an identifier of a target recipient for the content to be shared with. In another implementation the feedback engine may transmit a request to the client device to identify a sharing target such as a friend on a social networking service. At step the feedback engine may identify the target recipient from the query or from a response to the request and at step may transmit a sharing request or command to a social network or social media service identifying the sharing target and the identified media content. In a further implementation steps and may be combined for complex queries e.g. share the song that s currently playing with Joe . In many implementations steps may be performed before steps . In other implementations similar queries and commands may be identified and functions performed such as adding an identification of a currently playing song to a download or purchase list subscribing to a program ordering a product visible in a scene during a program requesting the score of a currently playing sporting match or any other such complex functions based on the automatic identification of the media content received at the client device and the user requested entity and query. In some implementations as discussed above searches may be generated based on the content and or identified entity and provided to a search provider with the result transmitted or forwarded to the client device allowing direct and intuitive access to further knowledge about an entity.

At step if the feedback is not a query or command in some implementations the feedback or an identifier of the feedback may be provided to a broadcaster or content provider. In one such implementations cheers or boos or identifiers of such responses may be provided and or aggregated with similar responses of other audience members and provided in real time or delayed to a content provider. This may allow for measurement of audience responses or engagement with a program as well as providing remote audience interaction voting or surveying. Keywords in spoken feedback may be identified and provided to the content provider or aggregated to indicate positive or negative impressions by the audience.

In a further implementation viewer engagement may be encouraged through gamification features such as providing prizes or achievement awards for performing various tasks during a program. In one such implementation an item of content may include an instruction to viewers to cheer or sing along with said feedback automatically recorded by the client device and provided to the content provider. In some implementations viewer feedback may be added to the broadcast such as mixing remote viewer applause or cheers with live audio of a performance to further increase feelings of engagement and participation. In other implementations questions or opinions of audience members may be recorded and automatically provided to a content provider without requiring any additional steps by the audience member. This may allow remote viewers to participate in questioning candidates during a debate or receive answers to questions from an instructor during an educational program without needing to navigate complex menu systems or remember codes or numbers.

Closed captioning databases entity databases fingerprint databases and feedback databases or arrays may be periodically purged. Device identifiers and confidence scores may be removed from a database after a program is complete and a measurement is generated. In other implementations the device identifiers and confidence scores may be removed from the database after an hour a day a week or any other amount of time. This may allow for aggregation of feedback including live audiences as well as audience members who record and time shift the program for later watching. Closed captioning databases entity databases and fingerprint databases may also be purged with entries removed after a predetermined amount of time such as prior to a next episode of a program or simply periodically.

In some implementations users initiating queries may be provided with an opportunity to control whether or how to transmit feedback or interaction data to the measurement feedback system. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by the measurement feedback system and content providers.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on one or more computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices . Accordingly the computer storage medium may be tangible.

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term client or server include all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules subprograms or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a readonly memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magnetooptical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of nonvolatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magnetooptical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display OLED organic light emitting diode TFT thin film transistor plasma other flexible configuration or any other monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball etc. or a touch screen touch pad etc. by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending webpages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a frontend component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such backend middleware or frontend components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The features disclosed herein may be implemented on a smart television module or connected television module hybrid television module etc. which may include a processing circuit configured to integrate Internet connectivity with more traditional television programming sources e.g. received via cable satellite over the air or other signals . The smart television module may be physically incorporated into a television set or may include a separate device such as a set top box Blu ray or other digital media player game console hotel television system and other companion device. A smart television module may be configured to allow viewers to search and find videos movies photos and other content on the web on a local cable TV channel on a satellite TV channel or stored on a local hard drive. A set top box STB or set top unit STU may include an information appliance device that may contain a tuner and connect to a television set and an external source of signal turning the signal into content which is then displayed on the television screen or other display device. A smart television module may be configured to provide a home screen or top level screen including icons for a plurality of different applications such as a web browser and a plurality of streaming media services a connected cable or satellite media source other web channels etc. The smart television module may further be configured to provide an electronic programming guide to the user. A companion application to the smart television module may be operable on a mobile computing device to provide additional information about available programs to a user to allow the user to control the smart television module etc. In alternate embodiments the features may be implemented on a laptop computer or other personal computer a smartphone other mobile phone handheld computer a tablet PC or other computing device.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking or parallel processing may be utilized.

