---

title: Method of handling signaling and data transmission for machine-type communication
abstract: A method of handling signaling and data transmission for machine-type communication (MTC) for a core network in a wireless communication system is disclosed. The core network includes at least one of a network control node, a data base and a network gateway node. The method includes the network gateway node selectively performing trigger suppression operation on at least a trigger request from a MTC server according to whether the core network is congested or overloaded, wherein each of the at least a trigger request is used to trigger at least an MTC application on a MTC device, wherein the trigger suppression operation is performed according to a trigger suppression setting received from the network control node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560544&OS=09560544&RS=09560544
owner: HTC Corporation
number: 09560544
owner_city: Taoyuan
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20150708
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 441 942 filed on Apr. 9 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 472 639 filed on Apr. 7 2011 and entitled Method of handling back off status for device trigger the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 477 178 filed on Apr. 20 2011 and entitled Method of suppressing device trigger the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 482 194 filed on May 3 2011 and entitled Method of suppressing device trigger the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 482 222 filed on May 4 2011 and entitled Method of suppressing device trigger and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 539 965 filed on Sep. 27 2011 and entitled Method of suppressing device trigger the contents of which are incorporated herein.

The present invention relates to a method utilized in a mobile communication environment and more particularly to a method of handling machine type communication MTC in a mobile communication environment.

Machine type communication MTC is one type of data communication including one or more entities not requiring human interactions. That is the MTC refers to the concept of communication based on a network such as the existing GERAN UMTS long term evolution LTE or the like used by a machine device instead of a mobile station MS used by a user. The machine device used in the MTC can be called an MTC device. There are various MTC devices such as a vending machine a machine of measuring a water level at a dam etc. That is the MTC is widely applicable in various fields. The MTC device has features different from that of a typical MS. Therefore a service optimized to the MTC may differ from a service optimized to human to human communication. In comparison with a current mobile network communication service the MTC can be characterized as a different market scenario data communication less costs and efforts a potentially great number of MSs for communication wide service areas low traffic per MS etc.

Meanwhile the number of MTC devices is expected to be much greater than the number of legacy devices and a probability of performing operations of the plurality of MTC devices simultaneously is high due to a feature of a typical machine to machine M2M service. M2M communication also referred to as machine type communications or MTC may be used in a variety of areas. In the area of security M2M communication may be used in surveillance systems in backup of telephone landlines in the control of physical accesses e.g. to buildings and in car driver security. In the area of tracking and tracing M2M communication may be used for fleet management order management Pay As You Drive PAYD applications asset tracking navigation traffic information applications road tolling traffic optimization and steering. In the area of payment systems M2M communication may be used in point of sales vending machines customer loyalty applications and gaming machines. In healthcare M2M communication may be used for remotely monitoring vital signs supporting the elderly or handicapped in web access telemedicine points and in remote diagnostics. In the area of remote maintenance control M2M communication may be used in programmable logic controllers PLCs sensors lighting pumps valves elevator control vending machine control and vehicle diagnostics. In the area of metering M2M communication may be used in applications related to power gas water heating grid control and industrial metering. Additionally M2M communication based on machine type communication MTC technology may be used in areas such as customer service.

M2M communications may take advantage of deployed wireless networks based on Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP technologies such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE Advanced and or other technologies such as WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or those developed by the Institute for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and 3GPP2. M2M communications may use networks based on these technologies to deliver business solutions in a cost effective manner. In a circumstance involving ubiquitous deployment of wireless networks the availability of the wireless networks may facilitate and or encourage the deployment and use of M2M devices. Additionally further enhancements to these technologies may provide additional opportunities for the deployment of M2M based solutions.

To receive services e.g. evolved packet system EPS services the UE needs to register with the network. During a registration procedure e.g. attach procedure the UE may first send an ATTACH REQUEST message to a network entity e.g. MME . The ATTACH REQUEST message includes an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI which is stored in a subscriber identity module SIM card inside the mobile device e.g. UE. Because the IMSI uniquely addresses each subscriber it is seen as critical information from a security point of view and its transmission clearly has to be avoided as much as possible. By spying on and monitoring the IMSI eavesdropper may track a subscriber s location movement and activities. So the network allocates a temporary UE identity for example a system architecture evolution SAE temporary mobile subscriber identity S TMSI to the UE and renews it frequently in order to reduce the use of IMSI.

According to 3GPP TS 23.401 the network applies non access stratum NAS level congestion control to avoid NAS signaling overload from massive UEs accessing the network in which the MME serving GPRS support node SGSN provides a back off timer to a requesting UE. When the back off timer is running the requesting UE is restricted from requesting subsequent EPS Mobility Management EMM EPS Session Management ESM NAS signaling messages until the back off timer expires.

In the prior art the network lacks of a back off status management mechanism for a back off UE in which a back off timer is running. For example when the MTC server sends a trigger request message to the back off UE the network e.g. MME SGSN or HSS HLR would handle the trigger request message based on the EMM EPS Connection Management ECM status of the back off UE i.e. a MTC device corresponding to the MTC server . The network may send trigger request message to the back off UE or queue the trigger request message when the NAS level congestion control is applied. However the MTC server does not get any response for the result of the trigger request message such that the trigger request message is kept queued in the network. Network resources would be wasted and other trigger request messages for other non back off UEs may be delayed due to the queued trigger request message. Furthermore if there is a validity timer in the trigger request message as indicated in 3GPP TR 23.888 the trigger request message would be invalid due to expiration of the validity timer and the MTC server would occupy the network resource to resend the trigger request message.

A Device Trigger Delivery Gateway could be a standalone physical entity or a functional entity. At least one Device Trigger Delivery Gateway is owned by and deployed in a HPLMN that supports the MTC device trigger feature for subscribed devices. The DT GW is deployed on the boundary between the HPLMN and the public Internet. Alternatively the DT GW is owned and operated by a 3rd party on behalf of the HPLMN and or deployed in the public Internet. In which case a secure tunnelling mechanism between the DT GW and the HPLMN is utilized.

The MTC server sends a trigger indication request to the appropriate DT GW encapsulated in an IP packet. The trigger indication request could contain pertinent information needed to route the trigger e.g. device subscriber identity trigger command arguments relevant device location information security parameters etc. . When a trigger indication is received from a submitting node e.g. an authorized MTC server or IWK function on behalf of the MTC server the DT GW should first authorize the received request making sure it originated from a trusted MTC server and is targeted for a device for which the MTC server is authorized to trigger. The next step is for the DT GW to determine the reachability of the MTC device. Per the requirements specified in clause 5.8 of 3GPP documentation TS 22.368b.1.1 a trigger able MTC device can be received in the detached state in the attached state without a publically routable PDP context PDN connection and in the attached state with a publically routable PDP context PDN connection.

When the MTC server sends trigger request for the target MTC device to the network e.g. HSS HLR or DT GW MTC IWF the network may not be able to process the trigger request due to network congestion. However due to lacking of network congestion information it is still not clear how the network e.g. HSS HLR or DT GW suppresses the received trigger request or incoming trigger requests when network is congested.

It is therefore a primary objective of the present invention to provide method of handling machine type communication MTC in a mobile communication environment.

The present disclosure discloses a method of handling signaling and data transmission for machine type communication MTC for a core network in a wireless communication system. The core network comprises at least one of a network control node a data base and a network gateway node. The method comprises the network gateway node selectively performing trigger suppression operation on at least a trigger request from a MTC server according to whether the core network is congested or overloaded wherein each of the at least a trigger request is used to trigger at least an MTC application on a MTC device wherein the trigger suppression operation is performed according to a trigger suppression setting received from the network control node.

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

The following description is of the best contemplated mode of carrying out the invention. This description is made for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention and should not be taken in a limiting sense. Note that the 3GPP specifications described herein are used to teach the spirit of the invention and the invention is not limited thereto.

In order to solve the aforementioned problems the invention provides methods for handling signaling and data transmission for MTC where the signaling may be trigger related messages but not limited herein and the data transmission may be with small payload which is eligible for delivering via control plane. Please note that the signaling may be for MTC device with particular MTC features e.g. MTC monitoring MTC device triggering etc. is an exemplary system architecture for MTC Machine Type Communication which illustrates a mobile communication environment or mobile communication system according to an embodiment of the invention. The mobile communication environment includes at least one mobile communication device a service network and a MTC server . In the mobile communication environment the mobile communication device which may be a Mobile Station MS User Equipment UE is wirelessly connected to the service network for obtaining wireless services. The service network comprises an access network or called radio access network and a core network .

In the mobile communication environment the mobile communication device is configured for MTC and runs an application for MTC. The mobile communication device may communicate with the MTC server via the service network which may be a 3GPP network e.g. Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network or Evolved Packet System EPS network. The MTC server may be a server capable of triggering MTC applications also called MTC services on the mobile communication device . The MTC server can be further connected to one or more MTC application server via certain Application Programming Interfaces API and provides triggering services via the service network for the connected MTC application servers. Specifically the MTC server can send a trigger request message or called trigger indication via the service network to the mobile communication device for executing specific MTC application s .

The service network may comprise an access network or called radio access network and a core network wherein the access network allows connectivity between the mobile communication device and the core network by providing the functionality of wireless transmissions and receptions to and from the mobile communication device for the core network and the core network signals the required operations to the access network for providing wireless services to the mobile communication device . The service network may be a network in compliance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or Evolved Packet System EPS technology. The access network may be a GSM Edge Radio Access Network GERAN in the GSM technology a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN in the WCDMA HSPA technology or an Evolved UTRAN E UTRAN in the LTE LTE Advanced technology and the core network may be a GSM core network a General Packet Radio Service GPRS core network in the GSM UMTS system or an Evolved Packet Core EPC network in the EPS system.

The core network is connected to the access network which may include a network control node e.g. SGSN MME or S GW or GGSN PGW a data base e.g. HSS HLR a PDN gateway node and a network gateway node e.g. device trigger delivery gateway for providing various services to the mobile communication device . Please note that the data base can also co located with the network gateway node . For example the SGSN or MME Service Gateway S GW is the key network control node for packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management session management logical link management authentication and charging functions and interfaces an E UTRAN UTRAN GERAN for the creation of relevant radio bearers. The S GW provides the mobile communication device a direct user plane connectivity by being a bridge between the EUTRAN and the PDN gateway node and it has a control plan interface to the MME for handling mobile terminated calls to reach the mobile communication device in idle mode. The GGSN or PDN gateway node is responsible for inter working between the UMTS or EPS network and external networks. The HSS or HLR is a central database that contains user related and subscription related information. HLR is responsible for enabling subscriber access which can be considered as a subset of HSS. Functions of HSS HLR include functionalities such as mobility management call and session establishment support user authentication and access authorization. The service related entity e.g. MTC server may be inside or outside of the service network and may indirectly connect to network entity e.g. via network gateway or interworking function after appropriate authorization process or directly connect to GGSN PGW if user plane connection is established and remains active. Further the core network may provide different interfaces to the MTC server . The MTC server may transmit a trigger message to the network gateway node with interworking function to process service request e.g. trigger service received from the MTC server for further trigger delivery where the network gateway node is an entry point of the service network to the MTC server and an intermediate network node to interface with SMS SC SMS service center or network control node e.g. MME SGSN MSC. Please note that the mobile communication device receives the trigger request message from network control node via NAS signaling connection.

Step The MTC server sends a trigger request to the network gateway node via interface X1 where the trigger request is for triggering the mobile communication device .

Step The network gateway node retrieves information of the network control node i.e. the network control node is the serving network control node of the mobile communication device from the data base e.g. HSS HLR please note that the network gateway node can also be co located with the data base as indicated in indicates .

Step The network gateway node determines if continuing the trigger delivery procedure. If no the network gateway node sends a trigger delivery failure report to the MTC server via interface X1. If yes go to step

Step The network gateway node forwards the trigger request to the network control node via interface X2.

Step The network control node determines if continuing the trigger delivery procedure to send the trigger request to the mobile communication device .

Step If no the network control node sends a trigger delivery failure report to the network gateway node via interface X2.

Step The network gateway node forwards received trigger delivery failure report to the MTC server via interface X1.

Please note that the trigger delivery failure report is the message that indicates the failure delivery of trigger request the message can also be a reject message or an acknowledgement message in response to the trigger request message.

Step Receive a non access stratum NAS request message from the mobile communication device during a congestion control back off time period on the network control node .

Step Send a trigger delivery failure report to the network gateway node in the mobile communication environment if there exists a trigger request message pending for delivery to the mobile communication device .

According to the process when the network control node receives a NAS request message e.g. ATTACH TAU SERVICE REQUEST from the mobile communication device during a congestion control back off time period on the network control node if there exists a trigger request message pending for delivery to the mobile communication device the network control node rejects the trigger request message by sending a trigger delivery failure report or called trigger reject message to the network gateway node to notify the MTC server that the mobile communication device is currently unable to be triggered. The congestion control back off time period starts when the network control node activates NAS level congestion control to reject NAS level signaling requests e.g. ATTACH TAU SERVICE REQUEST under a network congestion situation or an access point name APN based congestion situation.

The trigger delivery failure report may include a failure cause e.g. network congestion or congested APN information according to the type of NAS level congestion control. Additionally the network control node may further send a NAS reject message with a NAS back off timer to the mobile communication device to inform the mobile communication device that NAS level signaling requests are rejected and no further NAS level signaling request is allowed until the NAS back off timer expires.

When the network gateway node receives the trigger delivery failure report from the network control node it determines the handling of the trigger request message. The network gateway node may determine to keep storing the trigger request message for further delivery later on or directly forward the trigger delivery failure report to the MTC server .

If a UE reachability flag e.g. message waiting flag URRP MME parameter etc. is set on the network control node the network control node does not inform the data base or the network gateway node about the reachability status of the mobile communication device where the network gateway node may be a device trigger delivery gateway with interworking function and store and forward function for trigger request messages.

Step Receive a first non access stratum NAS request message from the mobile communication device during a congestion control back off time period on the network control node .

Step Reject the NAS request message with a NAS back off timer to the mobile communication device and store a back off status corresponding to the mobile communication device .

Step Receive a trigger request message from the network gateway node which is sent from MTC server for delivery to the mobile communication device .

Step Send a trigger delivery failure report with the back off status of the mobile communication device to the network gateway node in the mobile communication environment if the stored back off status is active.

According to the process when the network control node receives the first NAS request message e.g. ATTACH TAU SERVICE REQUEST during the congestion control back off time period on the network control node the network control node rejects the first NAS request message by sending a NAS reject message e.g. ATTACH TAU SERVICE REJECT including the NAS back off timer IE e.g. T3346 as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.301 and TS 24.008 which is a random value generated by the network control node to the mobile communication device and stores a back off status i.e. set the back off status as active or the NAS back off timer corresponding to the mobile communication device . The congestion control back off time period starts when the network control node activates NAS level congestion control to reject NAS level signaling requests under a network congestion situation or an APN based congestion situation. The value of the congestion control back off time period is determined by the network node and the NAS level MM signaling requests are not allowed by the network node in a predetermined time. If congestion situation is released before congestion control back off time period expires the network control node deactivates the congestion control back off time period and stops congestion control on NAS level MM signaling. When receiving the NAS reject message the mobile communication device starts the NAS back off timer. When the NAS back off timer is running the mobile communication device is restricted from initiating any NAS level Mobility management signaling which is not for emergency services or priority services. The back off status indicates that device trigger for the mobile communication device is not allowed before expiry of the NAS back off timer on the mobile communication device . Note that the network control node receives the trigger request message after rejecting the NAS request message with a NAS back off timer to the mobile communication device . Therefore in response to the received trigger request message the network control node can respond to network gateway node based on the stored back off status or stored NAS back off timer of the mobile communication device .

When the network control node receives the trigger request message forwarded by the network gateway node if the NAS back off status of the mobile communication device is set as active and the congestion control back off time period is not expired the network control node sends the trigger delivery failure report with the back off status to the network gateway node to reject the trigger request message where the trigger delivery failure report may include a failure cause e.g. network congestion or congested APN information according to the type of NAS level congestion control. That is if the back off status is active the network gateway node is restricted from forwarding the trigger request message to the congested network control node . Please note that the back off status may be a flag indicating the back off status of the mobile communication device with regard to the NAS signaling or may be a trigger back off timer indicating the forbidden time to receive trigger request message on the network control node where the trigger back off timer can be the remaining time of the NAS back off timer of the mobile communication device if the network control node stores the NAS back off timer which was sent to the mobile communication device in the NAS reject message or a new back off timer generated by the network control node according to the congestion situation at the time receiving trigger request message if the network control node does not store the NAS back off timer of the mobile communication device . That is before expiration of the trigger back off timer the back off status of the mobile communication device is regarded as active and the network gateway node is restricted from forwarding the trigger request message to the mobile communication device .

When the network gateway node receives the trigger delivery failure report from the network control node it determines the handling of the trigger request message. The network gateway node may determine to store the trigger request message for further delivery later on e.g. forward the trigger request message after expiry of the NAS back off timer or trigger back off timer or may directly forward the trigger delivery failure report to the MTC server corresponding to the trigger request message. When receiving the trigger delivery failure report from the network gateway node the MTC server is restricted from sending any trigger request message to the mobile communication device until the trigger back off timer expires.

Furthermore when the network control node receives a second NAS request message which may be related to the inactive NAS back off status NAS back off timer expiration trigger back off timer expiration emergency service priority service or mobile terminated services the network control node accepts the second NAS request message and clears the back off status i.e. the back off status becomes inactive.

Preferably the network control node herein is a MME SGSN MSC and the network gateway node receiving the trigger request message from the MTC server is a network gateway node e.g. device trigger delivery gateway with interworking function which may be co located with HSS HLR.

Step Receive a first trigger delivery failure report including a back off status of the mobile communication device from the network control node which rejects a first trigger request message to the mobile communication device .

Step Receive a second trigger request message from the MTC server which is to be delivered to the mobile communication device .

Step Send a second trigger delivery failure report to the MTC server if the back off status of the mobile communication device is active.

According to the process when the network gateway node receives from the network control node the first trigger delivery failure report which includes the back off status the mobile communication device is in back off state the network gateway node stores the back off status for subsequent operations.

When the network gateway node receives a second trigger request message from the MTC server which is to be delivered to the mobile communication device the network gateway node checks the back off status which may be a flag or a trigger back off timer corresponding to the mobile communication device . If the back off status is active or the trigger back off timer has not expired yet the network gateway node sends the second trigger delivery failure report with the back off status indicating the active state by the flag or a back off timer to the MTC server . Note that the back off timer here may be the remaining time of the trigger back off timer or may also be a new value generated by the network gateway node according to network load conditions. The second trigger delivery failure report may have a failure cause e.g. network congestion or congested APN information according to the type of NAS level congestion control.

The MTC server may send another trigger request message to the mobile communication device after the received back off status becomes inactive or the back off timer expires. Preferably the network gateway node herein is a gateway with interworking function for trigger delivery which may be co located with HSS HLR and may be with store and forward function for the trigger requests.

Step Receive a trigger delivery failure report with a back off status corresponding to the mobile communication device from the network gateway node in the mobile communication environment .

According to the process when the MTC server receives the trigger delivery failure report with the back off status from the network gateway node the MTC server stores the back off status and stop sending trigger request message if any to the service network . The trigger delivery failure report may have a failure cause e.g. network congestion or congested APN information according to the type of NAS level congestion control activated by the network control node . Please note that the back off status indicates the active state by a flag or a back off timer. That is before the back off timer expires the back off status is regarded as active. The value of the back off timer is determined by the network gateway node according to the remaining time of the trigger back off timer or network load conditions on the network gateway node . The back off timer indicates that trigger request messages to be delivered to the mobile communication device are not allowed by the network control node or the network gateway node in a predetermined time.

If the stored back off status is active when the MTC server receives a notification message from the network gateway node which corresponds to the mobile communication device and is without indicating the back off status the MTC server may clear the back off status by setting a flag as inactive or stopping the back off timer so that the MTC server can resume sending trigger request messages to the mobile communication device if any .

When the MTC server sends trigger request for the mobile communication device to the core network via network gateway node network gateway node or network control node may suppress the received trigger request or incoming trigger requests when the network control node or network gateway node is congested.

Please refer to which is a flow chart of an exemplary process . The process is used for MTC for handling signaling and data transmission for example the signaling may be trigger related messages in the core network or the MTC server in the mobile communication environment . The process includes the following steps 

Step The core network and the MTC server selectively perform suppress operation on the multiple trigger requests when the core network is congested.

According to the process the MTC server sends multiple trigger requests for the multiple target mobile communication devices via service network . The core network or the MTC server selectively perform suppress operation on trigger requests when the core network e.g. network control node network gateway node or PDN gateway node is congested.

The suppress operation can be performed on network gateway node by sending trigger delivery failure report to the incoming trigger request no trigger request is stored or stop forwarding the stored trigger requests or dropping the trigger requests and deleting the stored trigger requests with or without reporting the trigger failure to the MTC server or any combination of above.

The network gateway node should handle the trigger signalling load and prevent the MTC server from sending trigger requests to the mobile communication device causing trigger signalling overload. The network gateway node should detect the trigger signalling load associated with a particular MTC server a specific application identifier etc. Based on the trigger submission rate policies of the MTC subscription for the MTC server or the load condition of the network gateway node the network gateway node may determine to perform load control on one or more MTC server e.g. to suppresses trigger load by sending a message M1 over X1 interface to the MTC server where the message M1 may include optional information elements indicating a trigger suppression factor suppression duration or the suppression subcategories e.g. an application identifier a priority type a specific MTC server a specific TCP UDP port etc. to adjust the number of triggers sending from the MTC server . Also the network gateway node can report the success or failure of the trigger e.g. due to network congestion to the MTC server . The MTC server follows received information from the network gateway node and or follows the trigger submission rate policies of the MTC subscription to control trigger signaling load generated on the network gateway node .

To control trigger requests from the network gateway node that generates trigger loads on the network control node e.g. MME SGSN MSC the overload control can be achieved by the network control node e.g. MME SGSN MSC invoking the overload control procedure via sending a message M2 over X2 interface to the network gateway node where the message M2 may include optional information elements as trigger suppression settings to adjust the number of triggers sending from the network gateway node .

Based on the received message M2 sending from the network control node the network gateway node performs the overload control by suppressing trigger requests e.g. to stop forwarding the stored trigger requests to the congested network control node to reject the new arrival trigger requests to be delivered via congested network control node and send trigger delivery failure report to the MTC server or to delete the stored trigger requests with reporting the trigger failure to the MTC server . When the network gateway node receives the message M2 with information of trigger suppression settings from the network control node it determines if the network congestion occurs and determines to enforce load control on one or more MTC servers to reject the trigger requests from the selected MTC server by sending trigger delivery failure report to the MTC server in responding to the received trigger request which is to be delivered to the network control node it can selectively stops forwarding the trigger requests queuing or new arriving to next network node e.g. SMS SC or network control node it can selectively dropping the trigger requests and deleting the stored trigger requests with or without sending trigger delivery failure report message to the MTC server .

Based on the received message M1 sending from the network gateway node the MTC server performs the load control e.g. by selectively suppressing trigger requests e.g. to stop sending specific categories of trigger requests as indicated trigger suppression settings in the message M1 to the network gateway node . Alternatively the MTC server may determine to deliver the trigger request via another selected network gateway node. On the other hand the network gateway node needs to validate the trigger requests sending from the MTC server based on the trigger suppression settings criteria as indicated in the message M1 to the MTC server and or the trigger submission rate of the subscription for the MTC server . The network gateway node sends a message M3 with a failure cause in response to the received trigger request.

For trigger load control over X1 interface the network gateway node sends the message M1 over X1 interface with optional information elements IEs to adjust the trigger load sending from the MTC server . Also for trigger load overload control over X2 interface the network control node sends the message M2 over X2 interface with optional IEs to adjust the trigger load forwarding from the network gateway node . The optional IEs in message M1 over X1 interface are determined by the network gateway node and the optional IEs in message M2 over X2 interface are determined by network control node and the optional IEs can include at least one of a trigger suppressing factor a trigger suppressing delay a triggering suppressing application identifier a trigger suppress identifier a group of MTC devices with a specific group identifier a specific priority type a particular MTC server a particular MTC server with a specific TCP Transmission Control Protocol port or a specific UDP User Datagram Protocol port a MME identifier a SGSN identifier a specific APN access point name and a MME identifier or a SGSN identifier associated with a specific APN etc.

In some examples for the APN based congestion control the network control node requests the network gateway node to suppress trigger requests which are associated with a specific APN by sending the message M1 with information of MME SGSN MSC identifier and information of the congested APN. For the mobile communication device attached with a specific MME SGSN MSC identified by an MME SGSN MSC identifier the network gateway node can suppress the trigger requests for the mobile communication device if the trigger requests are used for an application associated with a congested APN.

In some examples the network control node e.g. MME SGSN MSC requests the network gateway node to suppress 50 percentage trigger requests from the MTC server for 5 minutes where the 50 is specified in the trigger suppressing factor and 5 minutes is specified in the trigger suppressing duration. Further the network control node can request the network gateway node to suppress a specific application identifier that may cause more traffic load on the core network by specifying in the trigger suppressing application identifier.

During an overload situation the network control node and the network gateway node however should attempt to maintain support for trigger deliver service to trigger the mobile communication device for emergency bearer services or high priority services. In other words the network control node and the network gateway node should not suppress trigger requests for emergency services or high priority services due to network congestion.

The network gateway node may determine when to start and stop performing suppression operation for load control on one or more MTC servers based on the trigger suppression criteria such as Maximum number of queuing trigger requests Maximum number of queuing trigger requests associated with a specific group identifier Maximum number of queuing trigger requests associated with a specific application identifier Maximum number of queuing trigger requests associated with a particular MTC server Maximum number of queuing trigger requests associated with a particular MTC server and a specific TCP UDP port Maximum arrival rate of trigger requests Maximum arrival rate of trigger requests associated with a specific group identifier Maximum arrival rate of trigger requests associated with a specific application identifier Maximum arrival rate of trigger requests associated to a particular MTC server Maximum arrival rate of trigger requests associated to a particular MTC server and a specific TCP UDP port Maximum service rate of trigger requests Maximum service rate of trigger requests associated with a specific group identifier Maximum service rate of trigger requests associated with a specific application identifier Maximum service rate of trigger requests associated to a particular MTC server Maximum service rate of trigger requests associated to a particular MTC server and a specific TCP UDP port. Please note that the network control node can also base on the similar trigger suppression criteria for congestion overload control on one or multiple network gateway node if the network control node can differentiate the received trigger requests into aforementioned categories. It is noteworthy that other than the trigger load generated on the network control node the capacity of network control node is also shared by the NAS signaling messages sending from the mobile communication devices signaling messages from other network control nodes or other network nodes e.g. Serving gateway S GW packet data network gateway P GW SMS service center SMS SC . To prevent network congestion from exacerbated by mobile communication devices that respond to triggers when enforcing NAS level congestion control the network control node shall not deliver trigger requests to the mobile communication devices as long as the particular congestion situation remains.

Apart from that in response to the received trigger request the network gateway node may send trigger delivery failure report message with a trigger back off timer for the target mobile communication device e.g. with MTC identifier or for a group of mobile communication device e.g. with MTC group identifier to the MTC server . Based on the timer the MTC server is not allowed to send subsequent device trigger requests to the same target mobile communication device or a group of MTC devices before the expiry of the timer.

The network gateway node stores the trigger suppression timer associated to the target mobile communication device or a group of mobile communication device . Before the expiry of the timer the network gateway node does not forward the trigger request associated to the suppressed mobile communication device or the network gateway node drops the trigger request of the suppressed mobile communication device even if it receives subsequent trigger requests for the suppressed mobile communication device from the MTC server .

Once the network gateway node or network control node is recovering from network congestion overload situation before the expiry of the suppression delay if indicated in message M1 M2 to the MTC server or the network gateway node the network gateway node or the network control node can resume the forwarding of the trigger request if the validity time of the trigger is not expired by sending a message M3 over X1 interface to MTC server or message M4 over X2 interface to network gateway node including aforementioned optional IEs with new values that may permit more trigger traffic to be delivered. Please note that the message M3 M4 may be a trigger delivery failure report message or an acknowledge message in response to the received trigger request or a new message indicating start or stop trigger suppression operation.

For the mobile communication device where an IP address is available in the MTC Server and or network gateway node if network gateway node is aware of the available IP address of the mobile communication device when receiving trigger request from the MTC server the network gateway node can use mobile terminated IP communication via a PDN gateway node e.g. P GW over X3 interface for sending a trigger request to the mobile communication device .

If the PDN gateway node detects the overload situation on a specific APN the PDN gateway node sends a M5 message indicating a P GW back off time for a specific APN to the network control node or a M6 message indicating P GW trigger suppression time over X3 interface to the network gateway node . Further one or more optional IEs indicating trigger suppression settings can also be sent for suppression operation wherein the optional IEs includes at least one of a P GW identifier a trigger suppress identifier a group of MTC devices with a specific group identifier a specific application identifier a priority type a particular MTC server a particular MTC server with a specific TCP UDP port a MTC server specific triggering suppressing application identifier a MTC Server specific trigger suppressing factor a MTC server specific trigger suppressing delay etc.

As a result if the network gateway node receives ME message from the overloaded PDN gateway node it performs trigger suppress operation based on received trigger suppression settings to stop delivering trigger request using MT IP communication via PDN gateway node . If the network control node receives the M5 message from the overloaded PDN gateway node the network control node sends a message M2 with optional IEs containing information for suppression settings to the network gateway node for trigger suppression operation.

Therefore the network control node network gateway node PDN gateway node and the MTC server is able to process the trigger suppression operations when network congestion occurs. The network control node network gateway node selectively suppresses a number of trigger requests based on received trigger suppression settings to enforce trigger suppression operation e.g. send trigger delivery failure report to the new arrival trigger request stop forwarding the stored trigger requests dropping the trigger requests and deleting the stored trigger requests with or without reporting the trigger failure to the MTC server.

Furthermore the aforementioned steps of the processes including suggested steps can be realized by means that could be a hardware a firmware known as a combination of a hardware device and computer instructions and data that reside as read only software on the hardware device or an electronic system. Examples of hardware can include analog digital and mixed circuits known as microcircuit microchip or silicon chip. Examples of the electronic system can include a system on chip SOC system in package SiP a computer on module COM and the communication device .

To sum up the present disclosure discloses back off status management mechanism for the network side. After NAS level congestion control is applied when the network receives a trigger request message from the MTC server or a NAS request message from a mobile communication device or MTC device the network can send a trigger delivery failure report immediately to the MTC server without queuing the trigger request message such that the network resource can be saved and transmission delays of other trigger request messages to other MTC devices can be avoided. In other examples of the present disclosure the core network can selectively suppress the trigger requests sent by the MTC server when network congestion occurs. The core network sends a reject message or stops forwarding the trigger requests for the stored trigger requests or drops the trigger requests and deletes the stored trigger requests without sending reject message or reports the trigger failure to the MTC server. As a result the signaling overload can be avoided.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the appended claims.

