---

title: Method and electronic device for controlling radiation power
abstract: A radiation power controlling method includes: detecting a user input for setting a radiation power; determining a radiation environment of an antenna on the basis of at least the detected user input; and setting the radiation power of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09425846&OS=09425846&RS=09425846
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09425846
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150410
---
The present application is related to and claims priority of Korean patent application No. 10 2014 0043815 filed Apr. 11 2014 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

In general an electronic device may perform communication with an external device through an antenna. An antenna of the electronic device may operate according to a specified radiation power and its communication quality may vary according to the intensity of a corresponding radiation power.

In conventional techniques antenna radiation power is fixed within an initially set range. Therefore when an event that requires radiation power adjustment occurs an initially set radiation power is maintained.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide a radiation power controlling method for setting radiation power according to a radiation environment determined by a user s input.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are directed to providing a radiation power controlling method for dynamically corresponding to a corresponding event when an event that requires radiation power adjustment generated from inside or outside an electronic device occurs.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a radiation power controlling method includes detecting a user input for setting a radiation power determining a radiation environment of an antenna on the basis of at least the detected user input and setting the radiation power of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a display configured to be functionally connected to the electronic device and display a user interface UI for determining a radiation environment of an antenna and a processor configured to determine the radiation environment on the basis of a user input for the UI and set a radiation power of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure provided is a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing an instruction for controlling an operation of an electronic device wherein the instruction allows the electronic device to perform detecting a user input for setting a radiation power determining a radiation environment of an antenna on the basis of at least the detected user input and setting the radiation power of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed with reference to the accompanying drawings. Various embodiments of the present disclosure are shown in the drawings and related details are described but various modifications are possible and more embodiments can be introduced. Thus it is intended that the present disclosure covers the modifications and variations of this disclosure provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents. With respect to the descriptions of the drawings like reference numerals refer to like elements.

The term include comprise including or comprising specifies a property a region a fixed number a step a process an element and or a component but does not exclude other properties regions fixed numbers steps processes elements and or components. The meaning of include comprise including or comprising specifies a property a region a fixed number a step a process an element and or a component but does not exclude other properties regions fixed numbers steps processes elements and or components.

In this specification the expression or includes any or all combinations of words listed. For example A or B can include A or include B or include both A and B.

The terms first and or second can be used to describe various elements however the elements should not be limited by these terms. For instance such terms do not limit the order and or priority of the elements. The expressions are used to distinguish one component from another component. For instance both a first user device and a second user device indicate a user device but indicate different user devices from each other For example a first component can be referred to as a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In this disclosure below when one part or element device etc. is referred to as being connected to another part or element device etc. it should be understood that the former can be directly connected to the latter or electrically connected to the latter via an intervening part or element device etc. . It will be further understood that when one component is referred to as being directly connected or directly linked to another component it means that no intervening component is present.

Terms used in this specification are used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. The terms of a singular form can include plural forms unless otherwise specified.

Otherwise indicated herein all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms can have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. In general the terms defined in the dictionary should be considered to have the same meaning as the contextual meaning of the related art and unless clearly defined herein should not be understood abnormally or as having an excessively formal meaning.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can have a communication function. For instance electronic devices can include at least one of smartphones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video phones electronic book e book readers desktop personal computers PCs laptop personal computers PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia player PMPs MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras and wearable devices e.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic accessories electronic tattoos and smart watches .

According to some embodiments an electronic device can be smart home appliances having communication function. The smart home appliances can include at least one of for example televisions digital video disk DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders and electronic picture frames.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device can include at least one of various medical devices for example magnetic resonance angiography MRA devices magnetic resonance imaging MRI devices computed tomography CT devices medical imaging devices ultrasonic devices etc. navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices marine electronic equipment for example marine navigation systems gyro compasses etc. avionics security equipment car head units industrial or household robots financial institutions automatic teller s machines ATMs and stores point of sales POS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device includes at least one of furniture or buildings structures having a communication function electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring instruments for example water electricity gas or radio signal measuring instruments . An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can be one of the above mentioned various devices or a combination thereof. Additionally an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can be a flexible device. Furthermore it is apparent to those skilled in the art that an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited to the above mentioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user in various embodiments can refer to a person using an electronic device or a device using an electronic device for example an artificial intelligent electronic device .

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and an event detection module .

The bus can be a circuit connecting the above mentioned components to each other and delivering a communication signal for example a control message there between.

The processor for example receives an instruction from the above other components for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the event detection module through the bus interprets the received instruction and performs operations and data processing in response to the interpreted instruction.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor sets a radiation power of an antenna. The processor adjusts the communication quality of an antenna by changing radiation power. The processor sets a radiation power of an antenna on the basis of specific absorption rate SAR that is an amount of electromagnetic waves that can be absorbed by the human body which is determined according to a mobile phone radio grading system. The processor determines the case that an SAR value generated from an antenna by a set radiation power is less than a reference value allowed according to the mobile phone radio grading system as radiation power low and determines the case that the SAR value is more than the reference value as radiation power high .

For example in the case that a reference SAR value according to the mobile phone radio grading system is about 1.6 W Kg when an event that requires increasing communication quality occurs the processor sets radiation power to a high state. In this case an SAR value generated by a corresponding radiation power corresponds to more than about 1.6 W Kg. When an event that requires protecting a user occurs the processor sets radiation power to a low state. In this case an SAR value generated by a corresponding radiation power corresponds to less than about 1.6 W Kg.

Hereinafter when radiation power is more than the reference value a high state is used and when not a low state is used. However the high or low state of radiation power is not a fixed power value and can be set to a specified value by a user or the processor . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor divides an SAR value generated from radiation power by predetermined intervals and adjusts a radiation power of an antenna according to a corresponding interval value.

The memory stores an instruction or data received from the processor or other components for example the input output interface the display the communication interface or the event detection module or an instruction or data generated from the processor or other components. The memory for example includes programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and an application . Each of the above mentioned programming modules can be configured with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel controls or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used for performing operation or functions implemented by the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Additionally the kernel provides an interface for accessing an individual component of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the application and controlling or managing the individual component.

The middleware serves as an intermediary role for exchanging data between the API or the application and the kernel through communication. Additionally in relation to job requests received from the applications the middleware performs a control for example scheduling or load balancing for the job requests by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource for example the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one application among the applications .

The API as an interface through which the application controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware includes at least one interface or function for example an instruction for file control window control image processing or character control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application can include an SMS MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring an exercise amount or blood sugar or an environmental information application for example an application for providing pressure moisture or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application can be an application relating to information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example the electronic device . The application relating to information exchange for example includes a notification relay application for delivering specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application can have a function for delivering to an external electronic device for example the electronic device notification information occurring from another application for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environmental information application of the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application receives notification information from an external electronic device for example the electronic device and can then provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application for example can manage for example install delete or update a function for example turning on off an external electronic device itself or some components or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display for at least part of an external electronic device for example the electronic device communicating with the electronic device an application operating in the external electronic device or a service for example a call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application includes an application specified according to the attribute for example a type of an electronic device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example when an external electronic device is an MP3 player the application includes an application relating to music playback. Similarly when an external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application includes an application relating to heath care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application includes at least one of an application specified to the electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device for example the server or the electronic device .

The memory stores a radiation environment selected through a user input. The radiation environment includes a plurality of modes setting radiation power according to a specified condition. For example when a user selects a first mode as the radiation environment the memory stores a corresponding selection result. The processor adjusts the radiation power when an event of a condition specified according to the stored result occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory stores a radiation power adjustment app list. The radiation power adjustment application app list corresponds to a list of apps for setting antenna radiation power to a specified value while an app is selected by a user and executed.

The input output interface delivers an instruction or data inputted from a user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the first event detection module through the bus . For example the input output interface provides data on a user s touch inputted through a touch screen to the processor . Additionally the input output interface outputs an instruction or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the event detection module through the bus through the input output device for example a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface outputs voice data processed through the processor to a user through a speaker.

The input output interface generates an operation signal for operating the electronic device according to an input from a user and can then provide the generated operation signal to the processor . The input output interface can be formed with an input device for example a key button a keyboard a keypad a touch pad and a touch screen.

The display displays various information for example multimedia data or text data to a user. The display displays an execution screen operating according to a control of the processor . For this the display includes a liquid crystal display LCD and a touch screen. When the display is a touch screen it can perform the role of the input output interface simultaneously and can generate a touch signal according to a touch event of a user to provide the generated touch signal to the processor .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display displays a screen for selecting a radiation environment of an antenna by a user. Additionally when a specific mode is selected by a user the display displays a screen for selecting an additional option according to a corresponding mode.

The communication interface connects a communication between the electronic device and an external device for example the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface communicates with the external device in connection to the network through wireless communication or wired communication. The wireless communication includes at least one of wireless fidelity WiFi BLUETOOTH BT near field communication NFC global positioning system GPS or cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The wired communication includes at least one of universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 or plain old telephone service POTS for example.

An antenna setting module sets a radiation power of an antenna according to a control of the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the antenna setting module receives a setting file for example an nv or cfg file from the processor and sets radiation power through a corresponding file. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the antenna setting module receives a setting file for antenna radiation power from an external device and sets radiation power according to a corresponding setting file.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network can be telecommunications network. The telecommunications network includes at least one of computer network internet internet of things or telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for example transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device can be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the server supports the driving of the electronic device by performing at least one of operations or functions implemented in the electronic device .

The event detection module detects the occurrence of an event hereinafter referred to as a power adjustment event set to adjust a radiation power of an antenna. The power adjustment event corresponds to an event inside outside the electronic device that requires adjusting a radiation power of an antenna. Through additional information on the event detection module can be provided.

The sensor recognition module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure collects recognition information on a user detected from at least one sensor included in the electronic device . The sensor recognition module detects the occurrence of an event hereinafter referred to as a sensor event that requires adjusting radiation power on the basis of the recognition information of a sensor. When a sensor event occurs the sensor recognition module provides the recognition information of a sensor to the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sensor includes at least one of a proximity sensor or a grip sensor. The proximity sensor corresponds to a sensor recognizing whether a user approaches toward the electronic device or a user approaches within a preset range around the electronic device . The grip sensor corresponds to a sensor recognizing whether a user grips the electronic device by the hand. The grip sensor corresponds to a sensor operating when a user grips the electronic device and more than a specified pressure is detected. The grip sensor can be disposed on at least one of the upper lower left or right side of the electronic device . However the position of the grip sensor can vary according to a design environment. When a user contacts a grip sensor equipped at the electronic device with more than a constant pressure the sensor recognition module provides the corresponding recognition information to the processor .

The sensor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure includes at least one of a gyro sensor or an acceleration sensor. The gyro sensor corresponds to a device measuring an angular velocity of an electronic device. The acceleration sensor corresponds to a device measuring a linear motion change in a specified direction. When an acceleration change or a linear motion change of more than a specified value occurs the sensor recognition module provides corresponding recognition information to the processor .

The sensor includes at least one of a bio sensor or a temperature sensor. When it is recognized that a user approaches the electronic device through the bio sensor or the temperature sensor the sensor recognition module provides corresponding recognition information to the processor . For example when a user corresponding to the bio sensor is recognized or a sensed temperature is increased more than a reference value due to the user s grip the sensor recognition module provides corresponding recognition information to the processor .

However the sensor is not limited thereto and can correspond to various sensors for example a gesturer sensor and an infrared sensor recognizing a user s motion.

The driver recognition module recognizes whether an event hereinafter referred to as a driver event transmitting data to the outside through the antenna setting module on a driver for example SD MMC stage or information on a transmission speed of corresponding data. The driver recognition module can provide whether a driver event occurs or information on a data transmission speed to the processor .

The app recognition module recognizes execution information of an application executable on the electronic device . The application app recognition module provides information on the occurrence of an event hereinafter referred to as an app related event that requires adjusting radiation power relating to an app execution to the processor . The app recognition module recognizes at least one of whether to execute an application a start time or an end time.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure includes a display functionally connected to the electronic device to display a user interface for determining a radiation power of an antenna and a processor determining the radiation environment on the basis of a user input for the UI and setting a radiation power of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device further includes an event detection module detecting a specified event and when the specified event is detected the processor resets the radiation power on the basis of at least one of the determined radiation environment or the event. When the radiation environment is a first or second mode and the execution of an application specified by a user occurs the processor can set the radiation power to less than a specified reference value. When the radiation environment is a third mode and the execution of an application specified by a user occurs the processor can set the radiation power to more than a specified reference value.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the specified event can correspond to at least one of a usage state of an electronic device by the user detected by a sensor included therein a state for transmitting data to the outside through the electronic device or an execution state of a specified application.

According to various embodiment of the present disclosure when the transmission speed of the data is less than a reference minimum value the processor sets the radiation power to less than a reference value or when the transmission speed of the data is more than a reference maximum value the processor sets the radiation power to more than a reference value

Referring to the processor displays a screen for antenna setting through the display . The screen includes an item for radiation power setting among various items relating to antenna setting. When a corresponding item is selected by a user the processor displays a radiation environment determination screen of an antenna through the display .

The radiation environment determination screen can be configured to select one of a first mode a second mode or a third mode by a user. The first mode can correspond to a balanced mode repeatedly controlling radiation power in consideration of the operating performance of a running application and the battery performance in the electronic device . The second mode can correspond to a high performance mode maintaining radiation power as high by reflecting a power supply state or a battery remaining state to the electronic device . The third mode can correspond to a safe mode setting radiation power to low under a specified condition. When at least one mode is selected by a user the processor displays a screen for selecting an additional option according to a corresponding mode through the display . Although a case including the first to third modes is exemplarily shown in the radiation environment determination screen further includes an additional mode for example an auto setting mode and a user custom mode addition to the first to third modes.

When at least one mode is selected by a user the processor displays a radiation power adjustment app list through the display . The radiation power adjustment app list corresponds to a list of an application selected by a user to set a radiation power of an antenna to a specified value for example high or low . A user includes an application for adjusting radiation power in a corresponding list and can then adjust the radiation power according to an application execution.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor sets a radiation power for an application included in the radiation power adjustment app list to low in the first mode or the second mode. Once a corresponding application starts the processor sets radiation power to low and once the corresponding application ends sets the radiation power to high . A user includes an application that is less frequently used and has relatively low data traffic in a corresponding list and can then adjust the radiation power according to a corresponding application execution.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the processor sets a radiation power for an application included in the radiation power adjustment app list to high in the third mode. A user includes an application that is more frequently used and has relatively high data traffic in a corresponding list and can then adjust the radiation power according to a corresponding application execution.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor recommends to a user an application selected according to an execution method for example frequency of use processor usage and use of a specified communication module of an application. According to the recommended contents a user includes an application for example an application using a communication module frequently that requires increasing radiation power in the radiation power adjustment app list and can then set the radiation power to high according to the execution of a corresponding application. On the contrary according to the recommended contents a user includes an application for example an application using a communication module less that requires decreasing radiation power in the radiation power adjustment app list and can then set the radiation power to low according to the execution of a corresponding application.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the second mode is selected by a user the processor displays a power supply confirmation screen . When power is supplied to the electronic device in a wired or wireless manner the processor can be set to enter the second mode. Additionally when a data cable is connected to the electronic device the processor can be set to enter the second mode. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor can be set to enter the second mode on the basis of the battery remaining of the electronic device . For example when the battery remaining of the electronic device is less than about 15 the processor can be set not to enter the second mode and sets radiation power to low . Additionally when the battery remaining of the electronic device is more than about 15 the processor can be set to enter the second mode and can then set radiation power to high .

Referring to in operation the processor detects a user input for setting radiation power through the input output interface . According to various embodiments the processor provides a user interface UI for determining a radiation environment of an antenna to detect a user s input.

In operation the processor determines the radiation environment on the basis of the detected user input. The radiation environment includes a first mode a second mode and a third mode. The first mode can correspond to a mode for example a balanced mode dynamically controlling a radiation power of an antenna according to the occurrence of an event that requires adjusting power generated inside outside the electronic device . The second mode can correspond to a mode for example a performance mode maintaining radiation power as high by reflecting a power supply state. The third mode can correspond to a mode for example a safe mode setting radiation power to low under a specified condition.

In operation the processor sets the radiation environment of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment. When a radiation environment determined by a user is the first mode the processor sets the radiation power to high first in the case of the first mode and can be set to adjust the radiation power according to a an event that occurs later. When a radiation environment determined by a user is the second mode when power is supplied to the electronic device in a wired or wireless manner or when the battery remaining is more than a reference value the processor sets radiation power to high . When a radiation environment determined by a user is the third mode the processor sets radiation power to low .

Referring to in operation the processor determines a radiation environment according to a user input. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure operation for determining the radiation environment according to the user input can be excluded in determining a radiation environment if there is a preset environment in the electronic device . For example the radiation environment can be set to the first mode in the initial setting of the electronic device without an additional selection operation by a user.

In operation the processor sets a radiation power of an antenna according to a radiation environment determined on the basis of a user input.

In operation the event detection module detects whether a power adjustment event occurs. The power adjustment event corresponds to an event inside outside the electronic device that requires adjusting a radiation power of an antenna. The power adjustment event corresponds to one of a sensor event a driver event or an app related event. The sensor event corresponds to an event that requires adjusting radiation power on the basis of recognition information detected from at least one sensor in the electronic device . For example the sensor event corresponds to an event that a user is close enough to be recognized by a sensor included in the electronic device . The driver event corresponds to an event transmitting data to the outside through the antenna setting module on a driver SD MMC stage of the electronic device . The app related event corresponds to an event that requires adjusting radiation power relating to app execution. The processor maintains a current radiation power state when a power adjustment event does not occur.

In operation when the power adjustment event occurs the processor resets the radiation power on the basis of at least one of a radiation environment or a corresponding power adjustment event. When the sensor event occurs the processor determines that a user is close to the corresponding electronic device and sets a radiation power of an antenna to low .

When the driver event occurs the processor compares a data transmission speed by a corresponding event and a reference value and can then reset a radiation power of an antenna. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the data transmission speed of the driver event exceeds a reference maximum value a reference maximum value or over the processor sets an antenna radiation power to high to improve the communication efficiency of a corresponding antenna. On the contrary when the data transmission speed of the driver event is less than a reference minimum value a reference minimum value or less the processor sets an antenna radiation power to low to reduce the communication efficiency of a corresponding antenna.

When the app related event occurs the processor dynamically sets a radiation power of an antenna according the execution of a corresponding application to maintain communication performance fit for each application. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when radiation power is set to low by a user the processor controls the radiation power on the basis of the selected radiation power adjustment app list .

Referring to in operation when an antenna is turned on the processor sets radiation power according to a radiation environment determined by a user.

In operation the processor confirms whether a radiation environment determined by a user is the first mode. The first mode can correspond to a mode setting antenna radiation power to high and then repeatedly controlling radiation power in consideration of the operating performance of a running application and the battery performance in the electronic device .

In operation when a radiation environment determined by a user is the first mode the processor sets radiation power to high . The processor initially sets radiation power to high in order to improve antenna communication performance in the first mode and can then adjust a corresponding radiation power according to a power adjustment event occurrence.

In operation the processor confirms whether a radiation environment determined by a user is a second mode. The second mode corresponds to a mode maintaining radiation power as high by reflecting a power supply state or a battery remaining state to the electronic device .

In operation when a radiation environment determined by a user is the second mode the processor confirms whether power is supplied to the corresponding electronic device . When power is supplied in a wired or wireless manner in order to prevent battery discharge due to power loss the processor can be set to enter the second mode. When power is supplied in the second mode the processor sets radiation power to high .

In operation the processor confirms whether a radiation environment corresponds to a third mode. The third mode corresponds to a mode setting radiation power to low under a specified condition.

In operation when a radiation environment corresponds to the third mode the processor sets radiation power to low . The processor can be set to maintain SAR of less than a reference value according to a mobile phone radio grading system without being affected by power adjustment event occurrence in the third mode.

Referring to in operation the sensor recognition module detects the occurrence of a sensor event after a radiation environment is determined by a user. The sensor event corresponds to an event that requires adjusting radiation power according to recognition information detected from at least one sensor in the electronic device .

In operation the processor confirms whether radiation power is set to high . When the radiation power is set to low the processor returns to an event standby state. When the radiation power is set to high the processor dynamically controls the radiation power according to a radiation environment determined by a user so as to protect a user from electromagnetic waves.

In operation the processor confirms whether a radiation environment determined by a user is the first mode for example a balanced mode .

In operation in the case of the first mode the processor sets radiation power to low . When a user s motion is recognized around the electronic device the processor lowers radiation power to protect a user.

In operation the processor confirms whether a sensor event occurs additionally. When a sensor event occurs additionally the processor confines again whether the sensor event occurs additionally after waiting a preset time for example 30 sec . When a user is close to the electronic device and stays the processor maintains radiation power as a low state to protect a user.

In operation when a sensor event does not occur additionally the processor set a corresponding radiation power to high to increase antenna communication efficiency.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sensor recognition module receives direction information of the electronic device through a geomagnetic sensor and can then provide it to the processor . When the direction of the electronic device is changed according to a pattern based on corresponding direction information the processor sets radiation power by a predetermined value according to a corresponding pattern.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sensor recognition module receives position information for example GPS information or moving speed information of the electronic device through a geomagnetic sensor and can then provide it to the processor . When a moving speed of the corresponding electronic device is more than a specified value the processor displays a pop up screen for allowing a user to determine whether to set radiation power to low through the display . When a moving speed of the electronic device is less than a specified value the processor displays a pop up screen for allowing a user to determine whether to set radiation power to high through the display . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a moving speed of the electronic device is within a specified interval range the processor displays a pop up screen for recommending a specified radiation power for the specified interval range to a user.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sensor recognition module receives at least one of distance information or connection state information with a peripheral device and can then provide it to the processor . The peripheral device corresponds to a portable terminal a PC or a smart watch. If there is more than a predetermined distance to a corresponding peripheral device on the basis of the distance information the processor sets radiation power to high and if there is less than the predetermined distance sets the radiation power to low . For example when a user wears a wearable device such as a smart watch if a distance to the wearable device is within a predetermined distance radiation power is set to low so as to protect the user. Once a connection with the peripheral device is maintained the processor sets radiation power to low and once the connection is disconnected sets the radiation power to high . For example when a user wears a wearable device such as a smart watch and moves out of a communication available range and thus a connection with the electronic device is disconnected communication quality can be adjusted by setting radiation power to high .

In operation the processor confirms whether a radiation environment determined by a user is the second mode for example a performance mode . When the radiation power does not correspond to the second mode the processor returns to an event standby state.

In operation when a radiation environment determined by a user is the second mode the processor generates a notification signal and can then notify to a user that the radiation power is set to high . Even when a sensor event occurs in the second mode the processor maintains radiation power as high so that high communication quality can be maintained. The processor protects a user through a notification signal.

Referring to in operation the driver recognition module detects whether a driver event occurs after a radiation environment is determined by a user. The driver recognition module provides whether a driver event occurs or information on a data transmission speed according to the driver event to the processor . When the driver event occurs the processor compares a data transmission speed by the driver event and a reference value and can then set a radiation power of an antenna. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor sets radiation power according to a specified transmission speed reference value. For example when the transmission speed reference value is about 50 Mbps the processor sets radiation power to low at a transmission speed for example about 10 Mbps of less than the transmission speed reference value. On the contrary the processor sets radiation power to high at a transmission speed for example about 60 Mbps exceeding the transmission speed reference value. Hereinafter a method of setting radiation power by dividing a reference value of a data transmission speed by a reference minimum value and a reference maximum value is examined.

In operation the processor confirms whether a data transmission speed is less than a reference minimum value for example about 1 Mbps . When the data transmission speed is less than the reference minimum value the processor improves power efficiency by lowering radiation power.

In operation when the data transmission speed is less than the reference minimum value the processor confirms whether a radiation environment corresponds to the first mode or the second mode.

In operation when the radiation environment corresponds to the first mode or the second mode the processor confirms whether radiation power is set to high .

In operation when the radiation power is set to high the processor resets the radiation power to low .

In operation the processor confirms whether a data transmission speed exceeds a reference maximum value for example about 100 Mbps . When the data transmission speed exceeds the reference maximum value the processor improves communication quality by raising radiation power.

In operation when the data transmission speed exceeds the reference maximum value the processor confirms whether a radiation environment corresponds to the first mode or the second mode.

In operation when the radiation environment corresponds to the first mode or the second mode the processor confirms whether radiation power is set to low .

In operation when the radiation power is set to low the processor confirms whether a sensor event occurs. When a sensor event occurs the processor protects a user by maintaining radiation power as a low state.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor can be set to adjust radiation power by a driver event with respect to an application not included in the radiation power adjustment app list in the case of the first mode. In this case the processor adjusts radiation power through an additional app related event with respect to an application included in the radiation power adjustment app list .

Referring to in operation the app recognition module detects whether an app event occurs after a radiation environment is determined by a user. The app recognition module can provide at least one of whether to execute a specified application a start time or an end time to the processor . When the app related event occurs the processor sets a radiation power of an antenna according an execution state of the application.

In operation the processor confirms whether a radiation environment corresponds to the first mode or the second mode. The processor adjusts radiation power according to an operation of an application in the first mode or the second mode.

In operation the processor confirms whether the application is included in the radiation power adjustment app list . The radiation power adjustment app list corresponds to an application list selected to adjust radiation power according to a predetermined condition. A corresponding application can be selected by a user or the processor . The processor selects an application according to an execution method for example frequency of use processor usage and use of a specified communication module of an application and includes the selected application in the radiation power adjustment app list . The processor adjusts radiation power with respect to an application included in the radiation power adjustment app list .

In operation when the start time of the application is confirmed the processor confirms whether radiation power is set to high .

In operation when the radiation power is set to high the processor resets the corresponding radiation power to low .

In operation when the end time of the application is confirmed the processor confirms whether radiation power is set to low .

In operation when the radiation power is set to low the processor confirms whether a sensor event occurs. When a sensor event occurs the processor protects a user by maintaining radiation power as a low state.

Although the case that once application starts radiation power is lowered and when application ends radiation power is raised is exemplarily shown in the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For example while a specified application is executed the processor increases radiation power and when the application is terminated decreases radiation power. As another example while a function specified by an application is performed the processor increases or decreases radiation power and when the function is terminated decreases or increases radiation power.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the radiation environment corresponds to the third mode the processor adjusts radiation power according to an operation of an application. In the third mode the processor sets radiation power to high with respect to an application included in the radiation power adjustment app list . A user includes an application that is more frequently used and has relatively high data traffic in a corresponding list and can then adjust the radiation power according to the application execution. The processor confirms whether a sensor event occurs at the start time of a corresponding application and can then reset radiation power to high . When a sensor event occurs the processor protects a user by maintaining radiation power as low . The processor resets radiation power to low at the end time of the application.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a radiation power controlling method includes detecting a user input for setting radiation power determining a radiation environment of an antenna on the basis of at least the detected user input and setting the radiation power of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the setting of the radiation power includes when the determined radiation environment is the first mode increasing the radiation power to more than a specified reference value. The setting of the radiation power includes when the determined radiation environment is the second mode and power is applied to an electronic device increasing the radiation power to more than a specified reference value. The setting of the radiation power includes when the determined radiation environment is the third mode decreasing the radiation power to less than the specified reference value.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the radiation power controlling method further includes detecting a specified event and resetting the radiation power on the basis of at least one of the determined radiation environment or the event in relating to the specified event.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the radiation environment is the first or second mode and the execution of an application specified by a user occurs the resetting of the radiation power includes setting the radiation power to less than a specified reference value. When the radiation environment is the third mode and the execution of an application specified by a user occurs the resetting of the radiation power includes setting the radiation power to more than a specified reference value.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the specified event corresponds to at least one of a usage state of an electronic device by the user detected by a sensor functionally connected thereto a state for transmitting data to the outside through the electronic device or an execution state of a specified application. The sensor includes at least one of a grip sensor a proximity sensor a gyro sensor an acceleration sensor a bio sensor or a temperature sensor.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the resetting of the radiation power includes reducing a set radiation power to less than a specified reference value while the electronic device is in use by a user confirming whether the specified event occurs additionally during a preset time when the radiation power is reduced to less than the specified reference and maintaining or changing the reset radiation power according to whether the specified event occurs additionally.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the resetting of the radiation power includes maintaining the set radiation power and providing a notification for the set radiation power to the user when the electronic device is in use by a user and the radiation environment is the second mode.

According to various embodiment of the present disclosure the resetting of the radiation power includes when the transmission speed of the data is less than a specified reference minimum value setting the radiation power to less than a reference value or when the transmission speed of the data is more than a reference maximum value setting the radiation power to more than a reference value.

According to various embodiment of the present disclosure the resetting of the radiation power includes setting the radiation power to less than a reference value at the start time of the application or setting the radiation power to more than a reference value at the end time of the application.

Referring to the electronic device includes at least one application processor AP a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP controls a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and also performs various data processing and operations with multimedia data by executing an operating system or an application program. The AP can be implemented with a system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP further includes a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module for example the communication interface performs data transmission through a communication between other electronic devices for example the electronic device or the server connected to the electronic device for example the electronic devices via a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module includes a cellular module a Wifi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides voice calls video calls text services or interne services through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The CP performs a distinction and authentication of an electronic device in a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module performs at least part of a function that the AP provides. For example the cellular module performs at least part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module further includes a communication processor CP . Additionally the cellular module can be implemented with SoC for example. As shown in components such as the cellular module for example a CP the memory or the power management module are separated from the AP but according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP can be implemented including some of the above mentioned components for example the cellular module .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module for example a CP loads instructions or data which are received from a nonvolatile memory or at least one of other components connected thereto into a volatile memory and then processes them. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module stores data received from or generated by at least one of other components in a nonvolatile memory.

Each of the Wifi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module includes a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wifi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are shown as separate blocks in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure some for example at least two of the cellular module the Wifi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module can be included in one integrated chip IC or an IC package. For example at least some for example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wifi processor corresponding to the Wifi module of the cellular module the Wifi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module can be implemented with one SoC.

The RF module can be responsible for data transmission for example the transmission of an RF signal. Although not shown in the drawings the RF module includes a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA . Additionally the RF module further includes components for transmitting receiving electromagnetic waves on a free space in a wireless communication for example conductors or conducting wires. Although the cellular module the Wifi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module shown in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wifi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module performs the transmission of an RF signal through an additional RF module.

The SIM card can be a card including a subscriber identification module and can be inserted into a slot formed at a specific position of an electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory includes an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory includes at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory 

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory can be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory can further include flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital Micro SD mini secure digital Mini SD extreme digital xD or memorystick. The external memory can be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device can further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures physical quantities or detects an operating state of the electronic device thereby converting the measured or detected information into electrical signals. The sensor module can include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor for example a red green blue RGB sensor a bio sensor a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally alternately the sensor module can include an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module can further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor therein.

The input module includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input through at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods for example. Additionally the touch panel can further include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive method both direct touch and proximity recognition are possible. The touch panel can further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor can be implemented through a method similar or identical to that of receiving a user s touch input or an additional sheet for recognition. The key includes a physical button a touch key an optical key or a keypad for example. The ultrasonic input device as a device checking data by detecting sound waves through a mike for example the mike in the electronic device provides wireless recognition through an input tool generating ultrasonic signals. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device receives a user input from an external device for example a computer or a server connected to the electronic device through the communication module .

The display for example the display includes a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel for example includes a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED . The panel can be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable for example. The panel and the touch panel can be configured with one module. The hologram shows three dimensional images in the air by using the interference of light. The projector displays an image by projecting light on a screen. The screen for example can be placed inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display further includes a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface includes a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature sub for example. The interface can be included in the communication interface shown in for example. Additionally alternately the interface includes a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure Digital SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module converts sound and electrical signals in both directions. At least some components of the audio module can be included in the input output interface shown in for example. The audio module processes sound information inputted outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or a mike .

The camera module as a device for capturing a still image and a video includes at least one image sensor for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown for example an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module manages the power of the electronic device . Although not shown in the drawings the power management module includes a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge for example.

The PMIC can be built in an IC or SoC semiconductor for example. A charging method can be classified as a wired method and a wireless method. The charger IC can charge a battery and can prevent overvoltage or overcurrent flow from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC can include a charger IC for at least one of a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. As the wireless charging method for example there is a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier circuit may be added.

The battery gauge measures the remaining amount of the battery or a voltage current or temperature of the battery during charging. The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery for example includes a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays a specific state of the electronic device or part thereof for example the AP for example a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor converts electrical signals into mechanical vibration. Although not shown in the drawings the electronic device includes a processing device for example a GPU for mobile TV support. A processing device for mobile TV support processes media data according to the standards such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above mentioned components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be configured with at least one component and the name of a corresponding component can vary according to the kind of an electronic device. An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can be configured including at least one of the above mentioned components or additional other components. Additionally some of components in an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure are configured as one entity so that functions of previous corresponding components are performed identically.

The term module used in this disclosure for example can mean a unit including a combination of at least one of hardware software and firmware. The term module and the term unit logic logical block component or circuit can be interchangeably used. module can be a minimum unit or part of an integrally configured component. module can be a minimum unit performing at least one function or part thereof. module can be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip performing certain operations field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device all of which are known or to be developed in the future.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to this disclosure for example as in a form of a programming module can be implemented using an instruction stored in computer readable storage media. When at least one processor for example the processor executes an instruction it performs a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media includes the memory for example. At least part of a programming module can be implemented for example executed by processor for example. At least part of a programming module includes a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process to perform at least one function for example.

The computer readable storage media can include Magnetic Media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape Optical Media such as Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and Digital Versatile Disc DVD Magneto Optical Media such as Floptical Disk and a hardware device especially configured to store and perform a program instruction for example a programming module such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM and flash memory. Additionally a program instruction can include high level language code executable by a computer using an interpreter in addition to machine code created by a complier. The hardware device can be configured to operate as at least one software module to perform an operation of this disclosure and vice versa.

A module of a programming module according to various embodiments can include at least one of the above mentioned components or additional other components. Or some programming modules can be omitted. Operations performed by a module a programming module or other components according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be executed through a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic method. Additionally some operations can be executed in a different order or may be omitted. Or other operations can be added.

According to various embodiment of the present disclosure in a non transitory computer readable storage medium having an instruction for controlling an operation of an electronic device the instruction can allow the electronic device to perform an operation for detecting a user input for setting radiation power an operation for determining a radiation environment of an antenna on the basis of at least the detected user input and an operation for setting the radiation power of the antenna according to the determined radiation environment.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a radiation environment is determined by a user s input so that antenna communication quality can be adjusted.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure by dynamically corresponding to an event that requires an adjustment of radiation power occurring inside outside an electronic antenna radiation power can be managed efficiently.

Also embodiments shown in this specification and drawings are provided as specific examples to describe technical content on a radiation power controlling method easily and help understanding and also do not limit the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be interpreted that besides the embodiments listed herein all modifications or modified forms derived based on the technical ideas of the present disclosure are included in the scope of the present disclosure.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

