---

title: Method and apparatus for activating scan function
abstract: A method and electronic device for receiving information is provided. The method includes transmitting, by the electronic device, a scan time and an identification of the information to cause the identified information to be broadcast at the scan time; and scanning, by the electronic device, during the scan time to receive the information. The electronic device includes a transmitter configured to transmit a scan time and an identification of the information to cause the identified information to be broadcast at the scan time; and a scanner configured to scan during the scan time to receive the information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537541&OS=09537541&RS=09537541
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09537541
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150722
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed on Sep. 1 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0115554 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a method and an apparatus for activating a scan function of an electronic device and more particularly to a method and an apparatus for determining an activation period of a scan function in an electronic device.

According to a development of an Internet Protocol version 6 IPv6 a unique IP may be allocated to an object. After a unique IP is allocated to an object the object may access an Internet network and transmit and receive data. Accordingly an Internet of objects e.g. an Internet of Things IoT is possible and research on smart home systems for effectively utilizing an automatic device has been actively pursued. A smart home system refers to a system in which a plurality of devices is registered to one electronic device to effectively and intuitively control the plurality of registered devices.

However since the types of devices for the Internet of objects vary and have been generalized power consumption is an issue in managing a plurality of devices in one electronic device. For example when one electronic device periodically scans a plurality of devices for an Internet of objects power consumption of the electronic device increases according to the type of device and the scan period.

Therefore there is a need for a method of effectively managing a plurality of registered devices in an electronic device.

The present disclosure has been made to address the above mentioned problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure provides a method and an apparatus for determining a time when a scan function is activated in an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method and an apparatus for determining a period when a scan function is activated in an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method and an apparatus for registering in an electronic device information concerning an activation time of a scan function and information to be received by a server from another electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method and an apparatus for receiving from another electronic device an advertisement message corresponding to information to be received when a scan function is activated in an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method and an apparatus for deactivating in an electronic device a scan function when an activation period expires.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a method of a first electronic device comprises transmitting information indicating scan time information of the first electronic device and information to be scanned to a server through a first communication module and activating a scan function of a second communication module at a time corresponding to the scan time information in order to receive the information to be scanned from the second electronic device receiving the information indicating the scan time information of the first electronic device and the information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the server.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a method of a server comprises receiving information indicating scan time information of a first electronic device and information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the first electronic device and transmitting the received information indicating the scan time information and the information to be scanned to a second electronic device.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a method of a second electronic device comprises receiving information indicating scan time information of a first electronic device and information to be scanned by the first electronic device from a server and transmitting the information to be scanned by the first electronic device to the first electronic device at a time corresponding to the scan time information.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus of a first electronic device comprises a communication interface that transmits information indicating scan time information of the first electronic device and information to be scanned to a server through a first communication module and a scan function activating module that activates a scan function of a second communication module at a time corresponding to the scan time information in order to receive the information to be scanned from the second electronic device receiving the information indicating the scan time information of the first electronic device and the information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the server.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus of a server comprises a communication interface that receives information indicating scan time information of a first electronic device and information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the first electronic device and transmits the received information indicating the scan time information and the information to be scanned to a second electronic device.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus of a second electronic device comprises a communication interface that receives information indicating scan time information of a first electronic device and information to be scanned by the first electronic device from a server and transmits the information to be scanned by the first electronic device to the first electronic device at a time corresponding to the scan time information.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. However it should be understood that there is no intent to limit the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed herein rather the present disclosure should be construed to cover various modifications equivalents and or alternatives of embodiments of the present disclosure. In the description below of the accompanying drawings similar reference numerals may be used to designate similar elements.

As used herein the expressions have may have include or may include refer to the existence of a corresponding feature e.g. a numeral a function an operation or a constituent element such as a component and do not exclude one or more additional features.

As used herein the expressions A or B at least one of A and or B or one or more of A and or B may include any or all possible combinations of items enumerated together. For example the expressions A or B at least one of A and B or at least one of A or B may include 1 at least one A 2 at least one B or 3 both at least one A and at least one B.

The expression a first a second the first or the second used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various components regardless of the order and or the importance but does not limit the corresponding components. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing an element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device may indicate different user devices regardless of the sequence or importance thereof. For example a first element could be referred to as a second element and similarly a second element could be referred to as a first element without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

When it is indicated that an element e.g. a first element is operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected to another element e.g. a second element it should be construed that the element is directly connected to the other element or the element is indirectly connected to the other element via yet another element e.g. a third element . Conversely when it is indicated that an element e.g. a first element is directly coupled or directly connected to another element e.g. a second element it may be construed that no other element exists between the element and the other element.

The expression configured to used in the present disclosure may be replaced with for example suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of according to the situation. The term configured to may not necessarily imply specifically designed to in hardware. Alternatively in some situations the expression device configured to may indicate that the device together with other devices or components is able to. For example the phrase processor adapted or configured to perform A B and C may refer to a dedicated processor e.g. an embedded processor only for performing the corresponding operations or a general purpose processor e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU or Application Processor AP that can perform the corresponding operations by executing one or more software programs stored in a memory device.

The terms used in the present disclosure are only used to describe certain embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. A singular expression may include a plural expression unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Unless clearly defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical terms and scientific terms may have the same meanings as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of the art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure. In some cases even a term defined in the present disclosure should not be interpreted to exclude embodiments of the present disclosure.

For example an electronic device may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a Moving Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical appliance a camera and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory electronic tattoos or a smart watch .

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a smart home appliance. The smart home appliance may include at least one of for example a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a home automation control panel a security control panel a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console e.g. Xbox and PlayStation an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic photo frame.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. various portable medical measuring devices e.g. a blood glucose monitoring device a heart rate monitoring device a blood pressure measuring device a body temperature measuring device etc. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA machine a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI machine a Computed Tomography CT machine and an ultrasonic machine a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device an electronic device for a ship e.g. a navigation device for a ship and a gyro compass avionics security devices an automotive head unit a robot for home or industry an Automatic Teller Machine ATM a Point of Sale POS device in a vending location or a device for the Internet of Things e.g. a light bulb various sensors an electric or gas meter a sprinkler device a fire alarm a thermostat a streetlamp a toaster sporting goods a hot water tank a heater a boiler etc. .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter and a radio wave meter . An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Further an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices and may include a subsequently developed electronic device.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the present disclosure the term user may indicate a person using an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

Referring to an IoT device which is a device capable of using the Internet may transmit an advertisement message according to a period configured in the device for transmitting an advertisement message. For example a first IoT device broadcasts an advertisement message according to a period for transmitting an advertisement message that is configured in the first IoT device and a second IoT device broadcasts an advertisement message according to a period for transmitting an advertisement message that is configured in the second IoT device. In this case the advertisement message transmission period of the first IoT device may be different from the advertisement message transmission period of the second IoT device.

In addition the user device e.g. a smart phone may activate a scan function according to a period of time e.g. a scan period configured for a user device in advance maintain an activation state e.g. continue to operate the user device during the scan period when the scan function is activated e.g. a scan function activation period to determine whether an advertisement message is received from an IoT device during the scan period.

If a time when a user device scans for an advertisement message from an IoT device is different from a time when the IoT device transmits the advertisement message the user device cannot receive the desired information e.g. the advertisement message from the IoT device. In order to receive the desired information from the IoT device a scan function activation period of the user device may be changed from short to long. However this would increase the power consumption of the user device.

In order to resolve such problems in the present disclosure a method of reducing power consumption according to scan function performance is described. In the method the user device detects in advance the times when an IoT device will transmit an advertisement message and as shown in the scan function of the user device is activated only when the IoT device transmits the advertisement message.

For convenience of description a user device is referred to below as a first electronic device and an IoT device is referred to as a second electronic device.

Referring to the first electronic device includes a bus a scan function activating module a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus connects elements of the first electronic device and transfers communication e.g. a control message among the elements of the first electronic device .

The scan function activating module receives scan time information of the first electronic device and an identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device . In this case the scan time information includes a time when the scan function of the first electronic device is to be activated e.g. a time when the first electronic device starts to scan and a period when the scan function is activated e.g. a duration of a scan . The identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device includes a type a kind an item and or a clause related to the information to be scanned and further includes an identification of a second electronic device that is to transmit the information to be scanned.

Then the scan function activating module transmits the received scan time information of the first electronic device and the identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device where the information to be scanned is by the second electronic device to a server in which at least one second electronic device is registered. That is the scan function activating module transmits scan time information of the first electronic device and an identification of information to be transmitted by the second electronic device to the server in which the second electronic device is registered in order for the server to control the second electronic device such that the second electronic device only transmits the information to be scanned by the first electronic device at a time when the scan function of the first electronic device is activated to scan for the information.

Then the scan function activating module activates the scan function of the first electronic device at the scan time e.g. the start time for the scan to receive the information transmitted by the second electronic device . In this case the information transmitted by the second electronic device may be an advertisement message broadcast by the second electronic device .

In addition the scan function activating module deactivates the scan function of the first electronic device when the scan period expires.

The processor for example receives instructions from other elements e.g. the scan function activating module the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the like through the bus decodes the received instructions and executes an operation or processes data according to the decoded instructions.

The memory stores instructions or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the scan function activating module the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the like or generated by the processor or other elements e.g. the scan function activating module the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the like . The memory for example may include programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . Each of the programming modules may be configured by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The input output interface transfers an instruction or data input from a user through an input device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the scan function activating module the processor the memory or the communication interface through for example the bus . For example the input output interface provides to the processor data associated with a touch of a user input through a touch screen.

The display displays various pieces of information e.g. multimedia data text data etc. to a user. For example the display displays instructions or data received from the scan function activating module the processor the memory and the communication interface through the bus .

The communication interface establishes communication between the first electronic device and an external device e.g. the server or the second electronic device . For example the communication interface is connected to a network through wireless communication and communicates with the server or the second electronic device . For example the wireless communication may include at least one of Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Near Field Communication NFC a satellite communication e.g. a GPS or a cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile Communication GSM or the like .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device transmits the scan time information of the first electronic device and identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device i.e. the information to be transmitted by the second electronic device to the server through a Wi Fi module. In addition the first electronic device receives an advertisement message i.e. the information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the second electronic device through a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE module or a Bluetooth BT module.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for a communication among the first electronic device the server and the second electronic device may be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware and the kernel which is included in the memory or the communication interface .

The communication interface establishes a communication between the server and an external device e.g. the first electronic device or the second electronic device . For example the communication interface is connected to a network through a wireless communication and communicates with the first electronic device or the second electronic device . For example the wireless communication includes at least one of Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Near Field Communication NFC a satellite communication e.g. a GPS or a cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like .

The communication interface according to an embodiment of the present disclosure receives the scan time information of the first electronic device i.e. the times when the first electronic device scans for a transmission sent to it by a second electronic device and the identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device i.e. identification of what the second electronic device will transmit to the first electronic device from the first electronic device and transmits the scan time information of the first electronic device and the identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device to at least one second electronic device registered in the server .

The processor controls the overall operation of the server . In this case the processor according to an embodiment of the present disclosure controls the server to receive the scan time information of the first electronic device and the identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the first electronic device and transmits the received information to the second electronic device . When the first electronic device attempts to scan for information from two or more second electronic devices the processor controls the server to transmit the identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device i.e. the identification of what a second electronic device is to transmit to the first electronic device and the scan time information of the first electronic device i.e. the time when the first electronic device will be scanning for a transmission from a second electronic device to two or more second electronic devices . For example as a result of the identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device when the first electronic device desires to receive information from a second electronic device A e.g. a transmission from the second electronic device A and information from another second electronic device B e.g. a transmission from the other second electronic device B the processor controls the server to transmit to the second electronic device A and the other second electronic device B respectively the scan time information of the first electronic device and the identification of the information to be transmitted by the second electronic device A and the identification of the information to be transmitted by the other second electronic device B . In this case the scan times may be different for the information to be transmitted by the second electronic device A and the information to be transmitted by the other second electronic device B .

The memory stores instructions or data received from the processor and the communication interface or instructions or data generated by the processor and the communication interface . The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application. Each of the programming modules may be configured by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof. The memory according to an embodiment of the present disclosure stores information for at least one second electronic device registered in the server .

Referring to the second electronic device includes a bus an advertisement message transmitting module a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus connects elements of the second electronic device for transferring a communication e.g. a control message among the elements of the second electronic device .

The advertisement message transmitting module receives scan time information of a first electronic device and identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device from a server . Then the advertisement message transmitting module determines a time when an advertisement message is to be transmitted to the first electronic device based on the scan time information.

Then the advertisement message transmitting module transmits the advertisement message which corresponds to the information to be scanned by the first electronic device to the first electronic device at the determined time e.g. during the scan time of the first electronic device . That is the advertisement message transmitting module broadcasts the advertisement message which corresponds to the information to be scanned by the first electronic device at the determined time e.g. the scan time of the first electronic device to enable the first electronic device to receive the advertisement message.

The processor for example receives instructions from other elements e.g. the advertisement message transmitting module the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the like through the bus decodes the received instructions and executes an operation or processes data according to the decoded instructions.

The memory stores instructions or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the advertisement message transmitting module the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the like or generated by the processor or other elements e.g. the advertisement message transmitting module the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the like . The memory for example includes programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . Each of the programming modules may be configured by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The input interface transfers an instruction or data input from a user through an input device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the advertisement message transmitting module the processor the memory or the communication interface through for example the bus . For example the input output interface provides to the processor data associated with a touch of a user input through a touch screen.

The display displays various types of information e.g. multimedia data text data etc. to a user. For example the display displays instructions or data received from the advertisement message transmitting module the processor the memory and the communication interface through the bus .

The communication interface establishes communication between the second electronic device and an external device e.g. the server or the first electronic device . For example the communication interface is connected to a network through wireless communication and communicates with the server or the first electronic device . For example the wireless communication includes at least one of Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Near Field Communication NFC a satellite communication e.g. a GPS or a cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication among the second electronic device the server and the first electronic device is supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel included in the memory or the communication interface .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second electronic device receives the scan time information of the first electronic device and identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the server through a Wi Fi module. In addition the second electronic device transmits an advertisement message to the first electronic device through a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE module or a Bluetooth BT module.

Referring to in step the first electronic device may receive information indicating scan time information of the first electronic device and an identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device . In this case the scan time may include a time when the scan function of the first electronic device is activated e.g. a time to start a scan and a period during which the scan function scans for information e.g. a duration of the scan . The identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device may include a type a kind an item and or a clause related to the information to be scanned and may further include the identity of the second electronic device that is to transmit the information to be scanned.

Next in step the first electronic device transmits the scan time information and the identification of the information to be scanned to a server. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the scan time information and the identification of the information to be scanned are transmitted to the server based on a first communication method e.g. a Wi Fi communication module .

Then in step the first electronic device receives an advertisement message which corresponds to the information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the second electronic device through a second communication module. For example the second communication module may be a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE module or a Bluetooth BT module. When a scan period expires the first electronic device deactivates the scan function.

Then the first electronic device terminates the method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to in step the server receives information indicating a scan time of a first electronic device and identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the first electronic device.

Then in step the server transmits the scan time information of the first electronic device and the identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device to the second electronic device. Then the server from the identification of information to be scanned identifies the information to be scanned by the first electronic device and the second electronic device to transmit the information to be scanned by the first electronic device . For example in accordance with the identification of the information to be scanned by the first electronic device where the first electronic device desires to receive information from a second electronic device A the server transmits to the second electronic device A the scan time of the first electronic device and the identification of the information desired to be received by the first electronic device from the second electronic device A. 

Referring to in step the second electronic device receives scan time information of the first electronic device and identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device from the server through a first communication module. The first communication module may be a Wi Fi communication module.

Then in step the second electronic device determines a time when an advertisement message is to be transmitted based on the received scan time information.

Then in step the second electronic device transmits the advertisement message which corresponds to the information to be scanned by the first electronic device to the first electronic device at the determined time e.g. at the scan time . In this case the second electronic device broadcasts the advertisement message which corresponds to the information to be scanned by the first electronic device at the determined time e.g. the scan time to enable the first electronic device to receive the advertisement message. The second communication module may be a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE module or a Bluetooth BT module.

Then the second electronic device terminates the method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to in step a first electronic device receives scan time information and an identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device . In this case the scan time may include information on a time e.g. a start time when the scan function of the first electronic device is activated and information on a period during which the scan function is activated e.g. a duration of a scan . The information to be scanned by the first electronic device may include a type a kind an item and or a clause related to the information to be scanned and may further include information indicating a second electronic device that is to transmit the information to be scanned by the first electronic device .

Then in step the first electronic device transmits to the server the scan time and the identification of information to be scanned. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the scan time and the identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device may be transmitted using a message type defined for a business operator in Bluetooth Coexistence Coex Protocol.

Referring to since a message type and a message type are defined for a business operator in Bluetooth Coex Protocol the scan time information and the identification of information to be scanned is transmitted using the message type and the message type .

When the server receives the scan time information and the identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device the server in step transmits the scan time information and the identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device to second electronic devices to N. From the identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device the server identifies information that must be received e.g. scanned by the first electronic device and identifies the second electronic device required to transmit the information to the first electronic device . For example when the first electronic device desires to receive information from the second electronic device the server transmits to the second electronic device the scan time information of the first electronic device and identification of the information desired by first electronic device e.g. identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device . In another example when the first electronic device desires to receive information from the second electronic device and information from another second electronic device the server transmits to the second electronic device the scan time information of the first electronic device and identification of information to be received from the second electronic device e.g. identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device that is transmitted by the second electronic device and transmit to the other second electronic device the scan time information of the first electronic device and identification of to be received from the second electronic device e.g. identification of information to be scanned by the first electronic device that is transmitted by the other second electronic device .

In step the second electronic devices to N identify the scan time information of the first electronic device and the respective information to be scanned by the first electronic device e.g. the information to be transmitted by the second electronic device and the information to be transmitted by the other second electronic device respectively .

In step the second electronic devices to N each determine a time when an advertisement message is transmitted from the second electronic devices to N respectively based on the scan time information.

In step the first electronic device activates a scan function at the scan time respectively. That is the first electronic device activates the scan function at the scan time respectively in order to receive the advertisement messages from the second electronic devices to N respectively.

Then in step the second electronic devices to N each broadcast their advertisement message corresponding to the information to be scanned and the first electronic device receives each corresponding advertisement message.

Referring to the electronic device includes at least one of an Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identifier Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP drives an operating system or an application program so as to control a plurality of hardware or software component elements connected to the AP and executes operations and processes data associated with various data including multimedia data. The AP may be embodied as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface performs data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the server and the second electronic device connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BlueTooth BT module a Global Positioning System GPS module a Near Field Communication NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides voice call video call Short Message Service SMS or Internet service through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . Further the cellular module may distinguish between and authenticate electronic devices in a communication network using for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module performs at least some of functions provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module may for example be implemented as an SoC. Although the elements such as the cellular module e.g. a CP the memory or the power management module are illustrated to be separate from the AP in the AP may include at least some of the aforementioned elements e.g. the cellular module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module for example a CP may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other component elements connected thereto to a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as individual blocks in at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included within one Integrated Circuit IC or one IC package. For example at least some processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module respectively e.g. a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module transmits and receives data for example RF signals. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting and receiving an electromagnetic wave in free space by wireless communication for example a conductor or a conductive wire. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated to share a single RF module in at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card is a card in which a Subscriber Identification Module is implemented and is inserted into a slot formed in a predetermined position of the electronic device . The SIM card includes unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or unique subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . For example the internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF drive a Secure Digital SD card a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD card a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD card an extreme Digital xD card a Memory Stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or senses an operational state of the electronic device and converts the measured or sensed information into an electrical signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example Red Green and Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV light sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may for example include an Electronic nose E nose sensor an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input based on for example at least one of a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an acoustic wave scheme. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive touch panel may be able to recognize physical contact or a proximity of a contact. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be embodied for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may for example include a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit is a unit that can identify data by generating an ultrasonic signal through an input tool e.g. pen and detecting a sonic wave through a microphone in the electronic device and is capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a server or an IoT device connected thereto using the communication module .

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . For example the panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED display or the like. The panel may for example be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be formed to be a single module with the touch panel . The hologram may show a three dimensional image in the air by using the interference of light. The projector displays an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen may for example be located internal or external to the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram or the projector .

The interface may for example include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub connector . The interface may for example be included in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may for example include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card MultiMedia Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module converts a sound and an electrical signal in a bidirectional manner that is converts a sound into an electrical signal and vice versa. At least a part of the audio module for example may be in the input interface shown in . The audio module processes for example sound information input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone a microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device for capturing a still image or a video and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash e.g. an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . The power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted for example in integrated circuits or SoC semiconductors. The charging methods may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC can charge a battery and can prevent introduction of over voltage or over current from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. Examples of wireless charging include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging and electromagnetic charging and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit and a rectifier may be added for wireless charging.

The battery gauge may for example measure the residual capacity charge in voltage current or temperature of the battery . The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may for example include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays a predetermined state of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device for example the AP such as a boot up state a message state a charging state or the like. A motor converts an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. The electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing device for supporting mobile TV may process media data according to standards such as for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or a media flow.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device for receiving information is provided the electronic device includes a transmitter configured to transmit a scan time and an identification of the information to cause the identified information to be broadcast at the scan time and a scanner configured to scan during the scan time to receive the information.

The identification of information includes at least one of a type a kind an item and information associated with the identified information.

The identification of information includes information to identify a device to broadcast the information.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a server for conveying a scan time and an identification of information is provided the server includes a receiver configured to receive a scan time and an identification of information and a transmitter configured to transmit the scan time and the identification of information.

The identification of information includes at least one of a type a kind an item and information associated with the identified information.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a broadcasting device is provided the broadcasting device a receiver configured to receive a scan time and an identification of information and a transmitter configured to broadcast the identified information at the scan time.

The identification of information includes at least one of a type a kind an item and information associated with the identified information.

The above described components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed of one or more components and a name of a corresponding component element may be changed based on the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements. Some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be further included in the electronic device. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements prior to the combination.

The term module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of hardware software and firmware. The term module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The term module may refer to the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The term module may refer to the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The term module may refer to a module that is mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the term module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or may be developed hereafter.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be embodied by for example a command stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium in a form of a programming module. When an instruction is implemented by one or more processors for example the processor one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the instruction. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

The non transitory computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices configured to store and perform a program instruction for example a programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory and the like. In addition program instructions may include high level language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine code generated by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform an operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A programming module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the described component elements where a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Furthermore some operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a storage medium storing instructions the instructions are configured such that at least one processor performs at least one operation. In this case at least one operation may include transmitting or receiving at least one signal of a first signal corresponding to a first communication network or a second signal corresponding to a second communication network in an electronic device and when at least one signal is received distributing at least one signal to a first communication control module for processing a first signal and a second communication control module for processing a second signal respectively based on a service provided by the electronic device and corresponding to the first signal and the second signal.

In an electronic device of the present disclosure a first electronic device receives information indicating scan time information of the first electronic device and identification of information to be scanned transmits the scan time information of the first electronic device and the identification of information to be scanned to a server and activates a scan function of the first electronic device only at a time when a second electronic device receiving the scan time information of the first electronic device and the identification of information to be scanned from a server transmits an advertisement message. Thus the present disclosure can reduce power consumption according to a scan function of the first electronic device.

The embodiments disclosed in the present disclosure and the accompanying drawings are only certain examples provide to easily describe the technical matters of the present disclosure and help with comprehension of the present disclosure but do not limit the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein the scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure should be construed to include all modifications or modified forms drawn based upon the scope and spirit of the various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

