---

title: Method of controlling transmit power and electronic device therefor
abstract: A method for determining a transmit power level in an electronic device and the electronic device thereof are provided. The method includes activating an emergency mode, determining a transmit power level based on a condition, and transmitting an emergency message, including information associated with a request for rescue, with the determined transmit power level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654956&OS=09654956&RS=09654956
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09654956
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150824
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Aug. 25 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0111072 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method for adjusting a transmit power level in an electronic device and the electronic device therefor.

Currently as information communication technologies have been developed network devices such as base stations have been installed to support data communication. Electronic devices transmit and receive data with other electronic devices through the network devices thus making it possible for users to freely use the network devices anywhere.

In addition electronic devices may transmit and receive data with other electronic devices using base stations and may transmit and receive data with other electronic devices without using base stations. For example electronic devices may transmit and receive data with other electronic devices using local area networks such as a radio frequency identification RFID network a near field communication NFC network and a ZigBee network.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method for adjusting a transmit power level of a communication module in an electronic device and the electronic device therefor.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method for determining a transmit power level in an electronic device is provided. The method includes activating an emergency mode determining a transmit power level based on a condition and transmitting an emergency message including information associated with a request for rescue with the determined transmit power level.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an emergency mode activation module configured to activate an emergency mode a transmission control module configured to determine a transmit power level based on a condition and a transmission module configured to transmit an emergency message including information associated with a request for rescue with the determined transmit power level.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

In the present disclosure the expressions include and comprise or may include and may comprise used herein indicate existence of disclosed corresponding functions operations or elements but does not exclude additional one or more functions operations or elements. In addition it should be further understood that the term include comprise have including comprising or having used herein specifies the presence of stated features integers operations elements components or combinations thereof but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers operations elements components or combinations thereof.

In the present disclosure the expressions A or B or at least one of A or and B and the like used herein may include any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. For example the term A or B or at least one of A or and B may refer to all of the case 1 where at least one A is included the case 2 where at least one B is included or the case 3 where both of at least one A and at least one B are included.

The expressions such as 1st 2nd first or second and the like used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to various elements but do not limit the corresponding elements. For example the expressions do not limit the order and or priority of the corresponding elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For instance both a first electronic device and a second electronic device indicate electronic devices and different electronic devices. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being coupled with to or connected to another element the element can be directly coupled with to or connected to the other element or an intervening element may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly coupled with to or directly connected to another element it should be understood that there are no intervening element.

Unless otherwise defined herein all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms may have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. It will be further understood that terms which are defined in a dictionary and commonly used should also be interpreted as is customary in the relevant related art. Unless expressly so defined herein in various embodiments of the present disclosure the terms are not in an idealized or overly formal detect.

Electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be devices each of which controls a transmit power level of each of the electronic devices which will be described below with reference to . For example electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of smartphones smart pads tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video telephones electronic book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 audio layer 3 MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras or wearable devices e.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses an electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories smart watches and the like .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may be smart home appliances each of which controls a transmit power level of each of the electronic devices. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions TVs digital versatile disc DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders electronic picture frames.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. a magnetic resonance angiography MRA a magnetic resonance imaging MRI a computed tomography CT scanners or ultrasonic devices and the like navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices electronic equipment for vessels e.g. navigation systems for vessels gyrocompasses and the like avionics security devices head units for vehicles industrial or home robots automatic teller s machines ATMs or points of sales POSs each of which controls a transmit power level of each of the electronic devices.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of parts of furniture or buildings structures electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring instruments e.g. water meters electricity meters gas meters wave meters and the like each of which controls a transmit power level of each of the electronic devices. The electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of the above mentioned various devices.

In addition the electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be flexible electronic devices each of which controls a transmit power level of each of the electronic devices. In addition it is obvious to those skilled in the art that electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the above mentioned devices.

Hereinafter electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or may refer to a device e.g. an artificial electronic device which uses an electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input and output interface a display a communication interface and a control module .

The bus may be a circuit which connects the above mentioned components with each other and transmits communication e.g. a control message between the above mentioned components.

The processor may receive for example an instruction from the above mentioned other components e.g. the memory the input and output interface the display the communication interface the control module and the like through the bus may decode the received instruction and may perform calculation or data processing according to the decoded instruction.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may activate an emergency mode indicating that a user of the electronic device is in an emergency. For example the processor may activate the emergency mode by an instruction or request of the input and output interface which receives a user input for requesting to activate the emergency mode from the user. In addition the processor may activate the emergency mode by an instruction or request of the communication interface which receives a message for informing an emergency from the outside.

The memory may store instructions or data which are received from the processor or other components e.g. the input and output interface the display the communication interface the control module and the like or are generated by the processor or the other components. The memory may include for example programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API or an application . Each of the above mentioned programming modules may be configured with software firmware hardware or at least two or more combinations thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like used to execute an operation or function implemented in the other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel may provide an interface in which the middleware the API or the application may access a separate component of the electronic device and may control or manage the separate component.

The middleware may play a role as a go between such that the API or the application communicates with the kernel and transmits and receives data. In addition the middleware may perform control e.g. scheduling or load balancing with respect to work requests using a method of assigning priority which may use system resources the bus the processor or the memory and the like of the electronic device to for example at least one of the application in connection with the work requests received from the application .

The API may be an interface in which the application controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for file control window control image processing text control and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring quantity of exercise or blood sugar and the like an environment information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure information humidity information or temperature information and the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with exchanging information between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. another electronic device . The application associated with exchanging the information may include for example a notification relay application for transmitting specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information which are generated by other applications e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application the environment information application and the like of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device and may provide the received notification information to a user of the electronic device . For example the device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update a function e.g. a function of turning on off the external electronic device itself or partial components or a function of adjusting brightness or resolution of the display for at least a part of the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device which communicates with the electronic device an application which operates in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application specified according to attributes e.g. a kind of the electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application associated with playing music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application associated with health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application specified in the electronic device and an application received from the external electronic device e.g. a server or the other electronic device .

The input and output interface may transmit instructions or data input from the user through an input and output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard a touch screen and the like to for example the processor the memory the communication interface or the control module through the bus . For example the input and output interface may provide data for a touch of the user which is input through the touch screen to the processor . In addition the input and output interface may output instructions or data received from for example the processor the memory the communication interface or the control module through the bus through the input and output device e.g. a speaker or the display . For example the input and output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display may display a variety of information e.g. multimedia data or text data and the like to the user.

The communication interface may establish communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may connect to a network through wireless communication or wired communication and may communicate with the external electronic device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT BT low energy BLE near field communication NFC a GPS or cellular communication e.g. 3rd generation 3G long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro global system for mobile communications GSM and the like . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a universal serial bus USB a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a recommended standard 232 RS 232 a plain old telephone service POTS and the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may include a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things a telephone network and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device may be supported in at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication interface may receive a message for informing an emergency from the external electronic device e.g. the server .

In addition the communication interface may transmit an emergency message for providing notification that the user of the electronic device is in an emergency to the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device . The transmission of the emergency message may be performed when it is determined that the processor activates an emergency mode.

The control module may process at least some of information obtained from other components e.g. the processor the memory the input and output interface the display the communication interface and the like and may provide the processed information to the user in various ways.

For example the control module may control a transmit power level for transmitting the emergency message using the processor or to be independent of the processor .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when an emergency mode is activated the control module may control a transmit power level for transmitting an emergency message in the communication interface . The transmit power level of the communication interface may be determined according to predetermined conditions for example duration of the emergency mode the currently remaining capacity of a battery of the electronic device a transmission period of the emergency message a transmission range of the emergency message and the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the server may support driving of the electronic device by performing at least one of operations or functions implemented in the electronic device . For example the server may include at least one or more modules which may support the control module implemented in the electronic device . For example the server may receive a battery state of the electronic device or information about power consumption of operating configurations e.g. a sensor a processor and the like may calculate a transmit power level suitable for the electronic device and may notify the electronic device of the calculated transmit power level.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied when a user of an electronic device is in an emergency. For example the user of the electronic device may be in an emergency such as staying on an uninhabited island being located in a place where an earthquake occurs or being trapped in a collapsed building. In addition the user of the electronic device may be abducted by an abductor.

Since a communication rate of a cellular network may be bad under the above described circumstances a battery of the electronic device may be quickly exhausted. Therefore there is a need for the electronic device to transmit an emergency message to the outside without using the cellular network. For example the electronic device may broadcast the emergency message to the outside using BLE.

It may be predicted that it will be a long time to overcome the above mentioned circumstances. There is a need for the electronic device to adjust a transmit power level to transmit an emergency message for a long time. In this case the electronic device should be able to transmit the emergency message to a position where another electronic device may be present. The electronic device may adjust a transmit power level based on the position.

Referring to the system for determining the transmit power level may include a first electronic device a second electronic device a third electronic device a first server a second server and a network . Herein since this system of is at least one of various embodiments of the present disclosure the present disclosure is not limited thereto through .

The first electronic device may support an emergency mode. The emergency mode may be activated in various ways. For example the first electronic device may activate the emergency mode according to a user input received from a user.

The first electronic device may be a wearable device which may be worn by the user. Accordingly bio information of the user may be measured by various sensors included in the first electronic device . The first electronic device may also activate the emergency mode according to the measured bio information of the user for example a heart rate or blood oxygen saturation saturation of peripheral oxygen SpO and the like.

In addition the first electronic device may receive disaster information from the first server for example a server of a disaster management center and may activate an emergency mode according to the received disaster information.

The first electronic device may be paired with another electronic device e.g. the other electronic device shown in through local area communication for example BT and the like. Therefore the first electronic device may directly receive the disaster information from the first server and may also receive the disaster information from the other electronic device paired with the first electronic device .

The first electronic device may transmit an emergency message to the outside according to the activation of the emergency mode. In this case the first electronic device may determine a transmit power level of the emergency message based on a predetermined condition. The first electronic device may transmit the emergency message to the outside according to the determined transmit power level.

For example the first electronic device may set duration of the emergency mode. In addition the first electronic device may determine a transmit power level of the emergency message according to the set duration of the emergency mode. For example the first electronic device may determine a level of power for transmitting the emergency message such that the first electronic device is not powered off during the at least duration of the emergency mode.

In addition the first electronic device may determine a transmit power level of the emergency message based on the currently remaining capacity of its battery a transmission period of the emergency message a transmission range of the emergency message and the like.

The first electronic device may designate the second electronic device as a target and may transmit the emergency message to the designated second electronic device . In contrast the first electronic device may broadcast the emergency message around the first electronic device without designating a target. In this case the second electronic device which is close to the first electronic device may receive the emergency message. In addition the emergency message may broadcast in a BLE scheme.

The second electronic device may transmit an acknowledgement message to the received emergency message to the first electronic device . The first electronic device may receive the acknowledgement message and may transmit state information about the first electronic device or the user to the second electronic device .

The second electronic device may perform a predetermined operation according to the received emergency message or the received state information. For example the second electronic device may transmit at least some of the emergency message or the state information to the outside. For example the second electronic device may transmit necessary information or may connect a call to the third electronic device for example electronic devices of the police station the fire station the emergency room and the like. Alternatively the second electronic device may transmit the necessary information to the second server for example servers of the emergency center and the like.

The predetermined operation may be an operation which is set in the second electronic device and may also be an operation of an instruction and the like which are included in the received emergency message or state information. For example when a contact number to be contacted in an emergency is preset in the emergency message the second electronic device may transmit a message or may connect a call to the corresponding contact number using the predetermined operation. The message may include information for example a heart rate blood oxygen saturation a blood type and a medical history of a user. The information may be included in the received emergency message or the received state information. In addition the second electronic device may transmit its position information together with at least some of the emergency message or the state information to the outside.

As described above the description is given of the example in which the first electronic device broadcasts the emergency message receives the acknowledgement message from the second electronic device and transmits the state information to the second electronic device again. Herein according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may broadcast the emergency message and the state information together. In this case the second electronic device may receive at least one of the emergency message or the state information and may immediately communicate with the third electronic device or the second server .

Hereinafter a description will be given of making a comparison between when the emergency message and the state information broadcast together a first scenario and when only the emergency message broadcasts a second scenario .

In case of the first scenario the second electronic device may receive state information such as a heart rate and SpO may determine a state of a user accurately and may more quickly handle an emergency. Herein since the emergency message and the state information continuously broadcast when an electronic device e.g. the second electronic device which will receive the emergency message and the state information is not close to the first electronic device the first scenario may have the more amount of battery consumption than that of the second scenario. In contrast in case of the second scenario the second electronic device may not quickly handle an emergency and may have an advantage in view of battery consumption of the first electronic device . Therefore according to various embodiments of the present disclosure each of the first and second scenarios may be selected in a different way according to the remaining capacity of a battery of the first electronic device . For example when the remaining capacity of the battery of the first electronic device is greater than or equal to a predetermined value the first scenario may be selected. When the remaining capacity of the battery of the first electronic device is less than the predetermined value the second scenario may be selected.

The network e.g. the network shown in may connect to each of the first electronic device the second electronic device the third electronic device the first server and the second server which are included in the system for determining the transmit power level. In this case the network may refer to a connection structure which may exchange information between nodes such as electronic devices and servers. As described above this network may include but is not limited to Wi Fi BT BLE NFC a GPS or cellular communication e.g. 3G LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM and the like .

A service for determining a transmit power level may be provided through an application installed in the first electronic device . Herein the application may refer to an application program. For example the application may include an app executed in the first electronic device .

Referring to a first electronic device may include an emergency mode activation module an information collection module a reception module an emergency mode setting module a transmission module a transmission control module and a memory . Herein the first electronic device shown in is only at least one or more of various implementation examples of the present disclosure. Various modifications of the first electronic device are possible according to the components shown in .

For example the first electronic device may further include a user interface for receiving any instruction or information from a user for example a user input. In this case in general the user interface may be an input device such as a keyboard and a mouse. In addition the user interface may be a graphical user interface GUI displayed on an image display device.

The emergency mode activation module may determine whether to activate an emergency mode. For example the emergency mode activation module may activate the emergency mode according to a user input for requesting to activate the emergency mode. The emergency mode may be for example a mode of controlling the amount of power consumed by the first electronic device and transmitting an emergency message to the outside when it is estimated that the user is in an emergency mode.

The user input for requesting to activate the emergency mode may be to click a physical button included in the first electronic device and to touch and select a specific icon displayed on a screen of the first electronic device . In addition the user input for requesting to activate the emergency mode may be a predetermined gesture for example an operation of swing the first electronic device a predetermined number of times and the like.

A processor e.g. a processor shown in of the first electronic device may inactivate at least a part of functions of the first electronic device according to the activation of the emergency mode. For example the processor may inactivate a cellular communication function or a display function.

The information collection module may collect state information obtained by at least one or more sensors included in the first electronic device with respect to the first electronic device or a user of the first electronic device .

The state information may include position information of the first electronic device . In addition the state information may include motion information including position change information and acceleration change information of the first electronic device . The motion information may allow the first electronic device to determine that the user is walking running driving and the like.

In addition the state information may include information about time when the emergency mode is activated. In addition the state information may include bio information including a heart rate and SpOof the user.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one or more information included in the state information may allow the emergency mode activation module to activate the emergency mode of the first electronic device . For example when there is a disorder in a heart rate or SpOof the user the emergency mode activation module may activate the emergency mode. In addition when there is a sudden change in altitude of the first electronic device or a change in acceleration on a Z axis the emergency mode activation module may determine that the user is in an emergency such as a fall and may activate the emergency mode.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure after the emergency mode is activated the information collection module may collect state information about the first electronic device or the user of the first electronic device .

The reception module may receive a message for informing an emergency such as disaster information from the outside. For example the reception module may receive the disaster information message from a first server or another electronic device shown in . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the received message for informing the emergency may allow the emergency mode activation module to activate the emergency mode of the first electronic device . For example when the reception module receives a message such as an earthquake warning or a typhoon warning from a server of a disaster management center the emergency mode activation module may activate the emergency mode of the first electronic device according to the received message.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure another electronic device paired with the first electronic device may receive a message such as an earthquake warning or a typhoon warning from the server of the disaster management center. In this case the reception module may receive the message for informing the earthquake warning or the typhoon warning from the other electronic device. The emergency mode activation module may activate the emergency mode of the first electronic device according to the received message.

The first electronic device may generate an emergency message including information associated with a request for rescue according to the activation of the emergency mode. In addition a processor of the first electronic device may transmit the emergency message to the outside through the transmission module . In this case the reception module may receive an acknowledgement message to the transmitted emergency message from the second electronic device . The acknowledgement message may be for example a message for requesting to generate a session.

The processor of the first electronic device may display the acknowledgement message on a screen of the first electronic device to inform the user of the received acknowledgement message. Alternatively the processor may activate a vibration motor of the first electronic device to inform the user of receiving the acknowledgement message.

In addition the processor e.g. the processor shown in of the first electronic device may generate a session with a second electronic device of according to the session generation request message. Thereafter the first electronic device may communicate with the second electronic device in a unicasting scheme through the generated session. In addition the processor may end the transmission of the emergency message or may adjust a transmit power level according to the session generation request message. The operation of adjusting the transmit power level may be to reduce the amount of a battery resumed by the first electronic device .

The emergency mode setting module may set various options for the emergency mode activated by the emergency mode activation module . For example the emergency mode setting module may set duration for the emergency mode. The duration may be previously stored as a default setting in the memory . The set duration may be a predetermined period e.g. 10 days when people may survive in an emergency. Herein the duration may be changed according to user settings.

The transmission module may transmit the emergency message to the outside. For example the transmission module may transmit the emergency message to the outside in a broadcasting scheme. In this case another electronic device which is within a range where the emergency message broadcasts for example the second electronic device may receive the emergency message. In addition the transmission module may correspond to BLE communication. The emergency message may broadcast around the first electronic device through the BLE communication.

The transmission module may transmit the emergency message to the outside continuously during the emergency mode duration set by the emergency mode setting module . In addition the transmission module may transmit position information e.g. information which may be obtained through a GPS or a Wi Fi positioning system WPS and the like of the first electronic device together with the emergency message to the outside.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the emergency message may include information of the first electronic device or user information of the first electronic device . For example the information of the first electronic device may include a phone number identification information and the like. In addition the user information of the first electronic device may include previously input information about a name a phone number a blood type and a medical history of the user.

In addition the transmission module may transmit the state information collected by the information collection module to the second electronic device . The transmission module may transmit the state information as a response to the acknowledgement message received from the second electronic device to the second electronic device . As described above the transmission module may transmit the state information to the second electronic device in a unicasting scheme through the session generated by the processor.

As described above the state information may be collected after the emergency mode is activated. For example the state information may be collected by the information collection module after the reception module receives the acknowledgement message from the second electronic device and may be transmitted to the second electronic device .

The transmission control module may set a transmission period of the emergency message or the number of times the emergency message is transmitted. For example the transmission control module may set the transmission period of the emergency message such that the emergency message is transmitted per 30 minutes. Alternatively the transmission control module may set the number of times the emergency message is transmitted such that the emergency message is transmitted a total of 30 times. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the transmission control module may set both of the transmission period of the emergency message and the number of times the emergency message is transmitted. When duration of the emergency mode is set the transmission control module may achieve a desired purpose by setting one of the transmission period of the emergency message and the number of times the emergency message is transmitted to correspond to the duration. For example when the duration of the emergency mode is 10 days and when the transmission period of the emergency message is 1 minutes the number of times the emergency message is transmitted may be 60 times one hour 24 hours 10 days that is 14 400 times.

The transmission period of the emergency message or the number of times the emergency message is transmitted may be set according to a user input. In addition the transmission period of the emergency message or the number of times the emergency message is transmitted may be set according to the remaining capacity of the battery of the first electronic device without a user input.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information collection module may periodically collect state information about the first electronic device or the user. In this case the transmission control module may determine a transmission period of the emergency message not to be overlapped with a period when the information collection module measures bio information of the user. For example the transmission control module may prevent the emergency message from being transmitted while the information collection module measures a heart rate SpO or a temperature of the user. When a memory or a central processing unit CPU has low performance and when a plurality of operations are simultaneously performed one operation may be influenced. When an overload occurs since the operations are simultaneously performed much power may be consumed.

The transmission control module may determine a transmit power level for the emergency message based on a transmission range of the emergency message. When the transmit power level is more increased the emergency message may become farther broadcast.

In addition the transmission control module may determine a transmit power level for the emergency message based on the remaining capacity of the battery of the first electronic device or a level of power consumed by a function activated by the first electronic device .

The transmission control module may determine a transmit power level of the transmission module based on various factors. For example the transmission control module may determine a real transmit power level according to one or more of a predicted transmit power level duration of the emergency mode set by the emergency mode setting module and the remaining capacity of the battery of the first electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the transmission control module may predict a predicted transmit power level according to a predetermined standard and may determine the real transmit power level based on the predicted transmit power level the duration of the emergency mode and the remaining capacity of the battery of the first electronic device . For example the transmission control module may predict a predicted transmit power level according to predetermined duration of the emergency mode as a default setting and the remaining capacity of the battery of the first electronic device . Therefore when duration of an emergency mode set by the user is shorter than the predetermined duration the transmission control module may set a real transmit power level to be higher than a predicted transmit power level. In contrast when the duration of the emergency mode set by the user is longer than the predetermined duration the transmission control module may set the real transmit power level to be lower than the predicted transmit power level.

Herein according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the transmission control module may predict the predicted transmit power level or may determine the real transmit power level based on many elements as well as the duration of the emergency mode and the remaining capacity of the battery.

For example the transmission control module may predict the predicted transmit power level or may determine the real transmit power level according to the set transmission period of the emergency message or the set number of times the emergency message is transmitted.

In addition the transmission control module may predict the predicted transmit power level or may determine the real transmit power level based on power consumed by various components for example an application processor AP various types of sensors a screen and the like which are included in the first electronic device .

In addition the transmission control module may determine a transmit power level of the transmission module according to the state information. For example when a heart rate of the user is weakened the transmission control module may adjust predetermined duration of the emergency mode as a default setting and may maximize the transmit power level.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the emergency message may not be transmitted always with a transmit power of the same level. For example the emergency message may be transmitted by alternately consuming a transmit power of a high level and a transmit power of a low level for example by a strong weak strong weak strong weak pattern. Alternatively the emergency message may be transmitted at one period of a transmit power of a high level a transmit power of a low level and the transmit power of the low level for example by a strong weak weak strong weak weak pattern.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the predicted transmit power level or the real transmit power level may be determined according to for example a transmit current level for transmitting the emergency message which is first determined by the transmission control module . Therefore the above described elements for determining the transmit power level may be used to determine the transmit current level.

The transmission control module may update a transmit power level by a user input or at predetermined periods. In addition the transmission control module may update a predetermined transmission period of the emergency message and the number of times the emergency message is transmitted according to the transmit power level.

When there is another electronic device which transmits the emergency message in addition to the first electronic device the first electronic device may transmit the emergency message in cooperation with the other electronic device. For example the first electronic device may determine a transmission period of the emergency message twice as much as a predetermined value and may perform control such that the other electronic device transmits the emergency message at the same period. In this case the first electronic device and the other electronic device may alternately transmit the emergency message thus obtaining the same effect that the first electronic device transmits the emergency message at the predetermined periods.

The transmission control module may end the transmission of the emergency message according to the acknowledgement message received by the reception module . Since the first electronic device may communicate with the second electronic device in a unicasting scheme this is to reduce unnecessary battery consumption due to periodic transmission of the emergency message.

Herein the transmission control module may not end the transmission of the emergency message to transmit the emergency message to other electronic devices other than the second electronic device .

In addition since the second electronic device or a terminal of an ambulance and the like may not detect a position of the first electronic device the transmission control module may not end the transmission of the emergency message.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the transmission control module may design the emergency message such that the emergency message is available to an electronic device which departs from a predetermined distance. For example when the user of the first electronic device is abducted by an abductor since the abductor may receive the emergency message this is to prevent the emergency message from being received by the abductor. For example the emergency message may include a message type for allowing another electronic device to determine availability of the emergency message according to a received signal strength indication RSSI for receiving the emergency message. Since an electronic device of the abductor is close to the first electronic device the RSSI is strong. In this case packets of the emergency message need to be configured such that the emergency message is not available to the second electronic device.

The processor e.g. the processor shown in of the first electronic device may limit at least one or more of functions of the first electronic device to reduce the amount of the battery consumed by the first electronic device . For example the processor may activate the transmission module corresponding to BLE and may inactivate a transmission module corresponding to another network. In addition the processor may inactivate a vibration motor or a display function of a screen.

The memory may store at least one or more data by the processor. In this case the data stored in the memory may include data input and output between components in the first electronic device and may include data input and output between components in the first electronic device and components out of the first electronic device . For example the memory may store various information and the like collected by the information collection module . In addition the memory may store the emergency mode duration and the like set by the emergency mode setting module .

This memory may include a hard disc drive a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a flash memory a memory card and the like which are present in or out of the first electronic device .

It should be well understood to those skilled in the art that the emergency mode activation module the information collection module the reception module the emergency mode setting module the transmission module the transmission control module and the memory may be implemented to be independent of the first electronic device or such that one or more thereof are integrated with each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include an emergency mode activation module configured to activate an emergency mode a transmission control module configured to determine a transmit power level based on a predetermined condition and a transmission module configured to transmit an emergency message including information associated with a request for rescue with the determined transmit power level.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include an information collection module configured to collect state information obtained by the electronic device with respect to the electronic device or a user of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a reception module configured to receive a session generation request from another electronic device which receives the transmitted emergency message.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include an emergency mode setting module configured to determine duration of the emergency mode. The transmission control module may determine a transmit power level based on the duration of the emergency mode.

Referring to the emergency message may be a text message or may have a predetermined message type. When the emergency message is the text message a second electronic may display the text message on its screen. In this case the second electronic device may transmit an acknowledgement message or a session connection request message to the emergency message to a first electronic device of by a user of the second electronic device . Herein hereinafter it is assumed that the emergency message has the predetermined message type in .

Referring to the first electronic device may transmit an emergency message to the second electronic device . The emergency message may include header information and payload information. The payload information of the emergency message may include type information indicating an emergency information about a name a phone number a blood type and a medical history of a user position information of the first electronic device and information about an emergency mode entrance time. In addition the payload information of the emergency message may further include state information such as activity information e.g. information about whether a user is walking running driving and the like and heart rate information of the user.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the emergency message may include a message type for allowing another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device to determine availability of the emergency message according to an RSSI for receiving the emergency message.

The second electronic device may transmit a message including at least a part of information included in the emergency message and the state information to the outside for example an emergency center. The message may further include position information of the second electronic device information about time when the second electronic device receives the emergency message and the like.

Referring to the method for transmitting the emergency message according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include operations processed in time series in a first electronic device and a second electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure shown in . Therefore although there are omitted contents below contents described about the first electronic device and the second electronic device of may be applied to the method for transmitting the emergency message according to the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in .

In operation the first electronic device may activate an emergency mode in various ways. For example the first electronic device may activate the emergency mode according to a user input a message e.g. disaster information and the like for informing an emergency or state information of the first electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may limit at least a part of various functions of the first electronic device according to the activation of the emergency mode. For example the first electronic device may activate only a communication module corresponding to BLE among communication modules.

In operation the first electronic device may transmits an emergency message to the second electronic device . Herein the first electronic device may not designate the second electronic device as a transmission target of the emergency message. For example the first electronic device may broadcast the emergency message without designating a reception device using BLE. In this case it is assumed that an electronic device which receives the emergency message is the second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may receive the emergency message transmitted in operation . For example the second electronic device may receive the emergency message by scanning BLE.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit an acknowledgement message for providing notification that the emergency message is received to the first electronic device . The second electronic device may transmit the acknowledgement message to the first electronic device in a BLE broadcasting or unicasting scheme.

In operation the first electronic device may provide notification that there is success in transmitting the emergency message to the user according to the acknowledgement message transmitted in operation .

In operation the first electronic device may collect state information about the user or the first electronic device through at least one or more sensors.

In operation the first electronic device may transmit the state information collected in operation to the second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit at least some of the emergency message transmitted in operation or the state information transmitted in operation to the outside.

The order of operations to described above with reference to is only an example and is not limited thereto. In other words the order of the above described operations may be changed to each other and some thereof may be simultaneously performed. For example the transmission of some of the information in operation may be performed after operation .

The above described operations may be periodically repeated at predetermined time intervals and may be performed again according to a user input. In addition at least some of the above described operations may be omitted. For example operation may be omitted to reduce the amount of a battery consumed by the first electronic device .

Referring to the communication method between the first electronic device and the second electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include operations processed in time series in the first electronic device and the second electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure shown in . Therefore although there are omitted contents below contents described about the first electronic device and the second electronic device of may be applied to the communication method between the first electronic device and the second electronic device according to the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in .

In operation the first electronic device may activate a broadcasting function. In this case the activated broadcasting function may be using a BLE network.

In operation the first electronic device may transmit an emergency message to the second electronic device using the broadcasting function activated in operation . As described above the first electronic device may transmit the emergency message in a random way around the first electronic device without designating a target to be transmitted.

In operation the second electronic device may receive the emergency message transmitted in operation by scanning broadcasting. The second electronic device may scan the broadcasting using the BLE network in the same manner as that of operation .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit an acknowledgement message to the emergency message transmitted in operation to the first electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device and the second electronic device may set a session therebetween. The set session may be for transmitting and receiving a message or for incoming and outgoing calls.

The order of operations to described above with reference to is only an example and is not limited thereto. In other words the order of the above described operations may be changed to each other and some thereof may be simultaneously performed. In addition the above described operations may be periodically repeated at predetermined time intervals and may be performed again according to a user input.

Referring to a first electronic device communicates with other electronic devices to according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. illustrates the first electronic device and the other electronic devices to . In addition each of concentric circles which encircle the first electronic device refer to corresponding one of communication ranges to according to transmit power levels of the first electronic device .

Referring to when the transmit power level of the first electronic device is a first level the first electronic device may transmit an emergency message within the communication range . Herein since there are no other electronic devices to within the communication range the emergency message may not reach the other electronic devices to .

When the transmit power level of the first electronic device is a second level the first electronic device may transmit an emergency message within the communication range . Referring to since the other electronic device is present within the communication range the emergency message may reach the other electronic device . Herein for the other electronic device to receive the emergency message the other electronic device may should be able to use a network protocol to be shared with the first electronic device .

When the transmit power level of the first electronic device is a third level the first electronic device may transmit an emergency message within the communication range . Referring to since the other electronic devices and are present within the communication range the emergency message may reach the other electronic devices and .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may designate a range in which the emergency message is available to the other electronic devices to . For example although the transmit power level of the first electronic device is the third level the first electronic device may limit a range within the communication range . In this case the emergency message may be valid in the other electronic device but may not be valid in the other electronic device .

Since the other electronic device is not included within the communication range the other electronic device may receive the emergency message when the transmit power level of the first electronic device is higher than the third level.

Each of the communication ranges to of the first electronic device which is shown in is spaced for each transmit power level of the first electronic device . However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication range of the first electronic device may be expanded or reduced in a linear way according to a linear increase and decrease of the transmit power level of the first electronic device .

Referring to the first electronic device may communicate with a first access point AP a second AP and a third AP .

For example the first electronic device may scan APs around the first electronic device . The first electronic device may obtain identification information of each of the corresponding APs to for example a service set identifier 1 SSID1 an SSID2 and an SSID3. In addition the first electronic device may measure RSSI information about each of the scanned APs to and position information of each of the APs to .

The second electronic device may receive the RSSI information about each of the APs to and the position information about each of the APs to for the first electronic device . In this case the second electronic device may detect a position of the first electronic device using the received RSSI information and the received position information for example in a triangulation scheme.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may directly measure its position using a measured RSSI and may transmit the measured position to the second electronic device .

Referring to for example only three APs are shown according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

However referring to APs necessary for measuring the position of the first electronic device may not limited to the three APs. For example the position of the first electronic device may be measured using four or more APs. In addition the APs to shown in may include a GPS satellite.

Referring to the method for determining the transmit power level according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include operations processed in time series in a first electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure shown in . Therefore although there are omitted contents below contents described about the first electronic device of may be applied to the method for determining the transmit power level according to the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in .

In operation the first electronic device may activate its emergency mode according to various conditions.

In operation the first electronic device may set duration of the emergency mode activated in operation . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may receive duration of an emergency mode from a user. In addition the first electronic device may use predetermined duration of an emergency mode as a default setting without change.

In operation the first electronic device may determine a transmit power level of its transmission module. For example the first electronic device may determine the transmit power level of the transmission module according to the duration set in operation .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit an emergency message. The first electronic device may transmit the emergency message within a range corresponding to the transmit power level determined in operation . In this case the emergency message may be transmitted in a broadcasting scheme.

The order of operations to described above with reference to is only an example and is not limited thereto. In other words the order of the above described operations may be changed to each other and some thereof may be simultaneously performed. For example operation may be performed after operations and are performed.

In addition the above described operations may be periodically repeated at predetermined time intervals and may be performed again according to a user input.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a method for determining a transmit power level in an electronic device may include activating an emergency mode determining a transmit power level based on a predetermined condition and transmitting an emergency message including information associated with a request for rescue with the determined transmit power level.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include collecting state information obtained by the electronic device with respect to the electronic device or a user of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the state information may include at least one or more of position information of the electronic device motion information including position change information and acceleration change information of the electronic device a time point when the emergency mode is activated and bio information including a heart rate and SpOof the user.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include receiving a session generation request from another electronic device which receives the transmitted emergency message and generating a session with the other electronic device. For example the method may further include transmitting state information to the other electronic device through the generated session.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information associated with the request for rescue may be a text message or may have a predetermined message type.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the emergency message may further include information of the electronic device or user information of the electronic device. For example the information of the electronic device may include at least one or more of a phone number and identification information. The user information of the electronic device may include at least one or more of previous input information about a name a blood type and a medical history of the user.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some of information included in the transmitted emergency message and the state information may be transmitted to the outside through the other electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the transmitting of the emergency message may be performed in a broadcasting scheme.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include ending the transmission of the emergency message or adjusting the transmit power level according to the reception of the session generation request.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the activating of the emergency mode may be performed according to a user input for activating the emergency mode state information or a message for informing an emergency received from the outside.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of the transmit power level may be performed based on duration of the emergency mode.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include determining the remaining capacity of a battery of the electronic device. The determining of the transmit power level may be performed based on the determined remaining capacity of the battery.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of the transmit power level may be performed based on a transmission period of the emergency message or a transmission range of the emergency message.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of the transmit power level may be performed based on a level of power consumed by a function activated by the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include inactivating at least a part of functions of the electronic device according to the activation of the emergency mode.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the emergency message may include a message type for allowing another electronic device to determine availability of the emergency message according to an RSSI for receiving the emergency message.

Referring to an electronic device which may include for example all or a part of an electronic device shown in may include one or more APs a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may drive an operating system OS or an application program to control a plurality of hardware or software components connected thereto and may process and compute a variety of data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented with for example a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphical processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. a communication interface of may transmit and receive data in communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and another electronic device e.g. the other electronic device or the server of connected with the electronic device through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and an RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call service a video call service a text message service an Internet service and the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM and the like . In addition the cellular module may identify and authenticate the electronic device within a communication network using a SIM e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least a part of functions which may be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . In addition the cellular module may be implemented with for example an SoC. illustrates an example in which components such as the cellular module e.g. the CP the memory or the power management module are independent of the AP . However according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may be implemented to include at least a part e.g. the cellular module of the above described components.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module e.g. the CP may load instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memories or other components which connect thereto into a volatile memory to process the instructions or the data. In addition the AP or the cellular module may store data which are received from at least one of other components or are generated by at least one of the other components in a non volatile memory.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted and received through the corresponding module. illustrates an example in which the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module is independent of each other. However according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or an IC package. For example at least a part e.g. a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be implemented with one SoC.

The RF module may transmit and receive data for example an RF signal. Though not shown the RF module may include for example a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA and the like. In addition the RF module may further include components for example conductors or wires and the like for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves on a free space in wireless communication. illustrates an example in which the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module shares the one RF module with each other. However according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may transmit and receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card which includes a SIM and may be inserted into a slot formed in a specific position of the electronic device . The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. a memory of may include an embedded memory or an external memory . The embedded memory may include at least one of for example a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic RAM DRAM a static RAM SRAM or a synchronous DRAM SDRAM and the like or a non volatile memory e.g. a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the embedded memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a micro SD a mini SD an extreme digital xD a memory stick and the like. The external memory may functionally connect with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or may detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information to an electric signal. The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a red green blue RGB sensor a biosensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or an ultraviolet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may further include for example an e nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input in at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an ultrasonic type. In addition the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of the capacitive type physical contact or proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented using for example the same or similar method as or to a method for receiving a touch input of the user or a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key a keypad and the like. The ultrasonic input unit may be a device which allows the electronic device to detect a sound wave using a microphone e.g. a microphone and to determine data through an input tool which generates an ultrasonic signal. The ultrasonic input unit may perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected with the communication module using the communication module .

The display e.g. a display of may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED and the like. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be integrated into one module. The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in a space using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be positioned for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example an HDMI a USB an optical interface or a D subminiature . The interface may be included in for example a communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface an SD card multimedia card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert a sound and an electric signal in dual directions. At least a part of components of the audio module may be included in for example an input and output interface shown in . The audio module may process sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone and the like.

The camera module may be a device which captures a still picture and a moving picture. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors not shown e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Though not shown the power management module may include a power management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted in an IC or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method may be classified as a wired charging method or a wireless charging method. The charging IC may charge the battery and may prevent overvoltage or overcurrent from flowing in from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charging IC may include a charging IC for at least one of the wired charging method or the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may be for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method an electromagnetic method and the like. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier and the like may be further provided.

The battery gauge may measure for example the remaining capacity of the battery and voltage current or temperature thereof while the battery is charged. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or a part e.g. the AP thereof for example a booting state a message state a charging state and the like. The motor may convert an electric signal into mechanical vibration. Though not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process media data according to the standard of for example digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB media flow and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may adjust a geographical range which may communicate with another electronic device by adjusting the transmit power level of the communication module of the electronic device thus promoting user convenience.

Each of the above mentioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and names of the corresponding elements may be changed according to the type of the electronic device. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be configured to include at least one of the above mentioned elements some elements may be omitted from the electronic device or other additional elements may be further included in the electronic device. In addition some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined with each other to form one entity thus making it possible to perform the functions of the corresponding elements in the same manner as before the combination.

The terminology module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may mean for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or two or more combinations thereof. The terminology module may be interchangeably used with for example terminologies unit logic logical block component circuit and the like. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module may include at least one of an application specific IC ASIC chip field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device which is well known or will be developed in the future for performing certain operations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a part of a device e.g. modules or the functions or a method e.g. operations may be implemented with for example instructions stored in a computer readable storage media which has a program module. When the instructions are executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor of the one or more processors may perform functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory of . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions a process and the like for performing one or more functions.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure can also be embodied as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable recording medium. A non transitory computer readable recording medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the non transitory computer readable recording medium include a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM Compact Disc ROMs CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The non transitory computer readable recording medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. In addition functional programs code and code segments for accomplishing the present disclosure can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.

At this point it should be noted that the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above typically involve the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software in combination with hardware. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a mobile device or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with stored instructions may implement the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more non transitory processor readable mediums. Examples of the processor readable mediums include a ROM a RAM CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The processor readable mediums can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the instructions are stored and executed in a distributed fashion. In addition functional computer programs instructions and instruction segments for accomplishing the present disclosure can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.

Modules or program modules according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one or more of the above mentioned components some of the above mentioned components may be omitted or other additional components may be further included therein. Operations executed by modules program modules or other elements may be executed by a successive method a parallel method a repeated method or a heuristic method. In addition some of the operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted and other operations may be added.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

