---

title: Battery compartment for an HVAC controller
abstract: An HVAC controller may include a first sub-assembly and a second sub-assembly releasably securable to the first sub-assembly. The first sub-assembly may include a housing having the back and a cover, a printed circuit board at least substantially enclosed by the housing, a battery compartment formed in the back of the housing for receiving one or more batteries, and a display exposed for viewing through an aperture in the cover of the housing for viewing the display by a user. The printed circuit board may include one or more battery terminals that extend from the printed circuit board through the back of the housing and into the battery compartment. In some cases, the battery compartment may define a cup-shaped reservoir that may be configured to collect leakage from one or more of the batteries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146041&OS=09146041&RS=09146041
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 09146041
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150327
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 267 672 filed May 1 2014 and entitled Battery Compartment For An HVAC Controller which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 266 552 filed Apr. 30 2014 and entitled Display Sub Assembly For An HVAC Controller which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 817 777 filed Apr. 30 2013 and entitled Thermostat Systems and Methods all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to electronic devices and more particularly to improved use assembly construction and reliability of such electronic devices.

Electronic devices such as Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC control panels security system control panels lighting control panels irrigation control panels as well as other electronic devices are commonly used today. What would be desirable is an electronic device that has improved ease of use ease of assembly better construction and or increased reliability over what is available today.

This disclosure relates to electronic devices such as HVAC controller devices and more particularly to improved use interface assembly construction and reliability of such electronic devices.

In some instances an HVAC controller sub assembly may include a housing having a back and a cover a printed circuit board at least partially enclosed within the housing and a battery compartment formed in the back of the housing for receiving one or more batteries. In some cases the battery compartment may include a cup shaped reservoir configured to collect leakage from one or more batteries in the battery compartment when the HVAC controller sub assembly is in an upright position.

In one example an HVAC controller may include a first sub assembly and a second sub assembly releasably secured to the first sub assembly adjacent to a back of the first sub assembly. The first sub assembly may include a housing having the back and a cover a printed circuit board at least substantially enclosed by the housing a battery compartment formed in the back of the housing for receiving one or more batteries and a display exposed for viewing through an aperture in the cover of the housing for viewing the display by a user. The printed circuit board may include one or more battery terminals that extend from the printed circuit board through the back of the housing and into the battery compartment. In some cases the battery compartment may define a cup shaped reservoir that may be configured to collect leakage from one or more of the batteries.

The preceding summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the present disclosure and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the disclosure can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

While the disclosure is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specifics thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail. It should be understood however that the intention is not to limit aspects of the disclosure to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The following description should be read with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals indicate like elements throughout the several views. The description and drawings show several examples which are meant to be illustrative in nature.

For convenience the present disclosure may be described using relative terms including for example left right top bottom front back upper lower up and down as well as others. It is to be understood that these terms are merely used for illustrative purposes and are not meant to be limiting in any manner.

As shown in in one illustrative embodiment which is not meant to be limiting a thermostat or other electronic assembly may have a first sub assembly e.g. a thermostat body or other sub assembly with a housing e.g. a first housing and a second sub assembly e.g. a wall plate sub assembly or other sub assembly with a housing e.g. a second housing where the first sub assembly and or the second sub assembly may be provided individually or in combination. In the example shown the second sub assembly may be capable of being mounted on a wall with one or more connectors e.g. threaded connectors or other connectors as desired . The first sub assembly may connect or otherwise be adjustably fixed with respect to the second sub assembly .

Illustratively the first sub assembly may have extensions capable of engaging openings of the second sub assembly in a separable manner. The extensions and the openings may engage one another e.g. at a bottom of the thermostat to create a hinge mechanism capable of supporting the first sub assembly in an opened position and optionally without any further connecting features as best shown in . In one example the formed hinge mechanism may have a kinematic backstop and a release button or latch. Alternatively the formed hinge mechanism with a kinematic backstop may omit the button or latch and may be readily separable by lifting up on the first sub assembly as best shown in .

In the example shown an enclosure may house features of only the first sub assembly only features of the second sub assembly or features of the first sub assembly and features of the second sub assembly . The enclosure may include various latches extensions openings hinges button and or other connecting features that may facilitate connecting or snap together various portions of the enclosure without the need for a separate fastener e.g. a threaded member such as screw bolt or other fastener . Alternatively one or more separate fasteners e.g. a threaded fastener may be used to connect one or more portions of the enclosure . In one example first sub assembly may have a button with a latch as best shown in where the latch may engage the second sub assembly and the button may be pressed to release the connection between the latch and the second sub assembly .

In some instances the enclosure may be formed to provide a visually thin or minimalist appearance as best shown in . For example when the thermostat is mounted to a wall or other structure the thermostat may have one or more outer side walls that taper inward and toward the wall or other structure to which the thermostat is mounted. This taper may help create the illusion that the thermostat is thinner than it actually is.

In some instances the enclosure may include an indicator that may be viewable from a first side of the first sub assembly e.g. where the first sub assembly has a first side and a second side as best shown in and . In some instances the indicator may be a warning light an indicator light indicating an alert is ready to be view or any other type of light or indicator. In some examples the indicator may include a semi transparent plastic material covering a light source e.g. one or more lights such as an LED that in some cases may be capable of changing colors. In some instances the light may be electrically and or mechanically connected to a first PCB or PWB that is within the enclosure .

In some cases the enclosure may provide one or more features that may capture and or locate the first PCB or PWB a second PCB or PWB and or other features of the first sub assembly and or the second sub assembly . For example one or more projections may extend from the interior of the enclosure as best shown in and engage the first PCB or PWB and or the second PCB or PWB and or engage openings in either of the first and or second PCB or PWB to facilitate positioning the PCBs or PWBs and securing the PCB or PWBs in place within the enclosure .

The enclosure may be made from any material and by any process as desired. In one example the enclosure material may be injection molded with high impact polystyrene acrylic plexiglass and or any other material.

In some instances the first sub assembly may include a housing e.g. a first housing of the enclosure e.g. a plastic housing having a cover and a back or a housing made from any other material and or with any number of separable parts if any and a display sub assembly e.g. a touch screen display that may be positionable substantially within the housing . Among other features the housing may house a processor or controller a battery compartment a battery power input a wired power port wired control port a wireless interface and or any other suitable components. In some cases the housing may house a first printed circuit board PCB or first printed wiring board PWB where the cover may be positioned adjacent a first side of the first PCB or PWB and the back may be positioned adjacent a second side of the first PCB or PWB . The second sub assembly may be configured to be releasably secured to the first sub assembly adjacent to the back of the housing of the first sub assembly .

A wired power port may be capable of receiving power from an optional external wired power source to power the thermostat . A battery power input may be capable of receiving power from an optional battery in a battery compartment to power the thermostat . In some cases the battery power input will optionally or automatically cease drawing power from the optional battery when the wired control port senses power from a wired power source. Alternatively or in addition the battery power input may be capable of optionally or automatically receiving power from the optional battery inserted into the battery compartment when it is sensed that the wired power port is not receiving power from a wired power source. In some instances the processor or controller may be capable of determining from which power source power is drawn and or may be utilized to set optional customizable or automatic power draw settings. Illustratively the processor or controller may be configured to operate under one or more power configurations. For example the processor or controller may be capable of operating by receiving power form only the battery power input receiving power from only the wired power port or receiving power from the battery power input and the wired power port.

The processor or controller may be capable of generating one or more control signals configured to be sent to one or more HVAC components in communication with the thermostat via a wired or wireless interface. In some cases a wireless interface may be capable of optionally wirelessly connecting the thermostat directly or indirectly to the one or more HVAC components and may be capable of providing the control signals generated by the processor or controller to the one or more HVAC components via the wireless interface. A wired control port may be capable of optionally connecting the thermostat directly or indirectly to one or more HVAC components via one or more wires and may be capable of providing the control signals generated by the controller to the one or more HVAC components via the one or more wires.

The processor or controller may be configured to operate under one or more control configuration. For example the processor or controller may be capable of controlling one or more HVAC component using only the wired control port using only the wireless interface or using the wired control port and the wireless interface. In some illustrative instances the wireless interface and or the wired control port may be optionally simultaneously or alternatively selected for communicating control signals to HVAC components in communication with the thermostat .

The first PCB or PWB may have any shape or size as desired. In some instances the first PCB or PWB may have a portion that is configured to receive a memory card connector as best shown in . The portion of the first PCB or PWB that is configured to receive a memory card connector may have a perimeter that extends e.g. juts out from a main portion of the PCB or PWB . In one instance such extension of the PCB or PWB may facilitate ESD protection of the board and electronic components mounted on the board while allowing for the thermostat to receive an external memory card .

In some instances the second sub assembly may be a wall plate and may include a second PCB or PWB with electronic components e.g. terminal blocks relays latching relays etc. of which only a few are illustratively labeled in the Figures and or other features or components. In some cases one or more wires from a building conditioning system e.g. a heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system may connect to a terminal block or other component of the second PCB or PWB of the second sub assembly .

The wall plate may facilitate securing the second PCB or PWB therein in a floating manner. For example a lateral space or gap may be formed between an edge of the second PCB or PWB and the wall plate . In some instances the floating connection between the wall plate and the second PCB or PWB may facilitate inter board connection e.g. with the first PCB or PWB during an installation procedure such as when connecting the first sub assembly and the second sub assembly e.g. through an electrical connection and or mechanical connection .

The first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB may structurally complement one another. For example electronic components may extend from the first PCB or PWB and or from the second PCB or PWB by varying distances toward the other PCB or PWB. Also the electronic components may arranged on each of the PCB or PWB such that the electronic components that extend a relatively far distance from one of the PCB or PWB are aligned with either no electronic component of the other PCB or PWB or are aligned with an electronic components that extends a relatively short distance from the other PCB or PWB .

As shown in the first side of the first PCB or PWB may face the second PCB or PWB and the second side may face away from the second PCB or PWB . Also the second PCB or PWB may include a first side that faces the first PCB or PWB and a second side that faces away from the first PCB or PWB such that the first side of the first PCB or PWB is spaced from the first side of the second PCB or PWB by a spacing when the first PCB or PWB is releasably engaged relative to the second PCB or PWB via the first sub assembly and the second sub assembly . In some instances one or more component e.g. an electrical or electronic component or any other type of component including but not limited to an inter board connector A B may be complementarily mounted to each of the first side of the first PCB or PWB and the first side of the second PCB or PWB . In one example of complementary spacing of components a component mounted on the first side of the first PCB or PWB may extend a first distance from the first PCB or PWB toward the second PCB or PWB and a component mounted on the first side of the second PCB or PWB may extend a second distance from the second PCB or PWB toward the first PCB or PWB when the first sub assembly is releasably engaged with the second sub assembly . In some instances the sum of the first distance and the second distance may be greater than a distance of the spacing between the first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB . In some instances the one or more components mounted to the first PCB or PWB and the one or more components mounted to the second PCB or PWB may be laterally offset relative to one another. In other instances taller components on the first PCB or PWB may align with or overlap shorter components on the second PCB or PWB to help provide a more compact and thinner overall profile.

One or more of the components mounted on the PCBs or PWBs may include an inter board connector A B. As shown in the Figures the inter board connector A may be mounted on the second PCB or PWB however additionally or alternatively the inter board connector B may be mounted on the first PCB or PWB . To facilitate electrical communication between the first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB via the inter board connector s A B the back of the housing may include one or more apertures for accommodating the inter board connectors A B. The inter board connectors A B may carry one or more signals between the first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB . In some instances the inter board connectors A B may be aligned and connected during connection of the first sub assembly with the second sub assembly where such positioning may be facilitated by the hinge mechanism and or one or more other alignment features as desired.

In some cases the inter board connector s A B may be movable or adjustable e.g. laterally movable or adjustable up to a predetermined distance with respect to the first and or second housing. Such an adjustable inter board connector A B may accommodate an amount of misalignment of the first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB during connection of the first sub assembly with the second sub assembly . In one example the PCB or PWB to which the inter board connector AB is mounted may be movable with respect to the housing of the sub assembly in which it is secured. In some instances such adjustability up to a predetermined distance of the inter board connector A B and the PCB or PWB may be built into tolerances of the connection of the PCB or PWB with the respective housing such as shown illustratively by gap in . When so provided the PCB or PWB and thus the inter board connector A B may be movable so as to better accommodate misalignment of the first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB during connection of the first sub assembly with the second sub assembly while still being able to connect the inter board connector A B.

The second PCB or PWB when provided may be any shape or size capable of receiving the electronic components as desired. For example the second PCB or PWB may have a rectangular shape and a size e.g. a surface area or other size that is smaller than the first PCB or PWB . In some instances the second PCB or PWB may be sized smaller than the first PCB or PWB where for example the first PCB or PWB may extend laterally beyond one or more peripheral edges of the second PCB or PWB in at least one direction to result in a non overlapping region which may provide space to accommodate a battery assembly of the first sub assembly .

In one example the non overlapping region of the first PCB or PWB may include one or more battery contacts e.g. battery terminals to connect to one or more batteries and or an antenna. When batteries are positioned within the battery contacts the batteries may extend away from the first side of the first PCB or PWB toward the second housing of the wall plate by a distance that may be greater than the spacing between the first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB .

In some instances the non overlapping region of the first PCB or PWB may include a first portion and a second portion see . The first portion of the non overlapping region may include or carry one or more batteries within the battery contacts as described above. The second portion may include or carry a connector e.g. a memory card connector capable of receiving a memory card and or any other connector .

As best shown in and the battery assembly may include a battery compartment that may be at least partially formed in the back of the housing and may be configured to receive one or more batteries. The battery compartment may include the one or more battery contacts extending therein from the first PCB or PWB and may form a cup shaped battery reservoir that is capable of collecting leakage e.g. leaked electrolytes from one or more batteries that are inserted into the battery compartment . When the first sub assembly including the battery assembly is connected to or secured to the second sub assembly the second sub assembly may cover at least a portion e.g. less than half more than half substantially all of the battery assembly e.g. the battery compartment the battery contacts and or the battery reservoir . The wall plate may include one or more recesses that are configured to accommodate at least part of the one or more batteries received in the battery assembly. The battery reservoir may be configured to collect leakage if any from one or more batteries that are received in the battery assembly and allow it to pool therein without leaking outside the battery compartment such as onto one or more electrical components of the first sub assembly and or the second sub assembly .

In some instances the battery contacts may extend from the first PCB or PWB through the back of the housing and into the battery compartment . In one illustrative example the battery compartment may be positioned within the thermostat such that it may be located on or adjacent a first side of the first PCB or PWB with a display of the thermostat positioned at or adjacent a second opposite side of the first PCB or PWB .

The battery reservoir may be defined by the battery compartment and may be positioned below or at least partially below the battery contacts when the first sub assembly is in an upright position. The battery reservoir may have one or more parts or members and in some cases may be formed unitarily with the enclosure or may be added and or connected to the enclosure to collect leakage from the one or more batteries. In some instances the battery reservoir may be formed at least partially by a releasably securable insert see that may be securable to the back of the housing via an interference connection or any other type of connection. As best shown in clips formed in the back of the housing may engage corresponding engagement members of the insert to releasable secure the insert to the back of the housing via an interference connection. Alternatively or in addition the battery reservoir may be entirely or at least partially unitary formed with the back of the housing or other portion of the enclosure as desired.

The battery reservoir and or the components thereof may take on any shape configured to facilitate reception and maintenance of batteries therein. In some illustrative instances the battery reservoir may be cup shaped or other shape that is configured to collect leakage from one or more batteries inserted into the battery compartment .

The battery reservoir may provide space for the collection of battery leakage while preventing the leakage from affect sensitive parts and or areas where such leakage could cause failure of the thermostat . In one example when the first sub assembly is in an upright position the battery reservoir may have a crescent cup or other shape that extends the length of the batteries and in some cases may be shaped much like a hollowed out canoe.

In addition to or as an alternative to the battery assembly discussed above the first sub assembly may have a battery receptor for receiving a battery e.g. a lithium ion battery or other battery . In some instances the battery receptor may be separable from the first sub assembly as shown in to facilitate receiving and or removing the battery from the first sub assembly. Illustratively the battery receptor may be inserted into and or at least partially removed from a side of the first sub assembly . When the battery receptor is inserted into the first sub assembly the battery may electrically contact and or mechanically engage battery contacts such as battery contact which may be electrically and mechanically connected to the first PCB or PWB . Such electrical contact between the battery the battery contacts and the first PCB or PWB may facilitate powering one or more features of the thermostat .

The first sub assembly may be powered with one or more received or connected batteries or other power sources e.g. a first power source . In some cases the second sub assembly may be powered with a wired connection to the power of a building e.g. a second power source . In some instances the first sub assembly may be powered by the same power source powering the second sub assembly through electronic connection s between the first sub assembly and the second sub assembly e.g. the first power source and the second power source may be the same power source .

The first sub assembly and the second sub assembly may include electronic components which in some cases may be sensitive to electrostatic discharges ESDs . The first PCB or PWB of the first sub assembly may be protected from ESDs by the enclosure and or through conductors in or about the display and or touch screen as discussed further below. The second PCB or PWB of the second sub assembly may be protected from ESDs in a similar manner to the first PCB or PWB and or configured such that it is substantially insensitive to ESDs due to its remote positioning or location within the enclosure with respect to portions of the thermostat with which users typically interact. In some cases the second PCB or PWB includes electrical components that are not susceptible or far less susceptible to damage caused by ESD such as terminal blocks relays etc.

Illustratively the first PCB or PWB may be positioned adjacent the back side of a display sub assembly e.g. adjacent a reflective layer e.g. reflective foil or other reflective layer . The display sub assembly e.g. a touch screen display of the first sub assembly may have a front side e.g. a viewing side and a back side e.g. a non viewing side as shown in and conductive trace s further discussed below on the front side of the display sub assembly may be in electrical connection with one or more tails e.g. a flexible electrical connector or any other type of connector that may mechanically and or electrically connect to the first PCB or PWB and or the second PCB or PWB to provide an electrical path from the conductive trace s to a ground plane or other grounding feature of the PCB or PWB . In some instances the conductive trace s may be configured to collect ESD entering between the front side of the display sub assembly and the housing and to deliver the collected ESD to the grounding plane or other grounding feature of the PCB or PWB via the tail or other electrical connector.

With reference to the display sub assembly may include among other features a backlight system e.g. including a backlight guide plate for providing a backlight to the display and a reflective layer a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display or other display a touch screen e.g. an indium tin oxide ITO touch screen or other type of touch screen and or a frame having connectors for aligning and or connecting features of the display sub assembly and or mechanically connecting releasably connecting and or removably fixing the display sub assembly to the first PCB or PWB . Additionally or alternatively the frame may include one or more protrusions capable of mating with concave features of the backlight guide plate .

In instances where the display sub assembly may include a touch screen a display a frame a backlight guide plate and a reflective layer the front side may be formed at least partially by the touch screen and the back side may be formed at least partially by the reflective layer . Alternatively or in addition one or more of the features of the display sub assembly discussed herein or other features added to the display sub assembly may form the front side and or the back side thereof as desired.

Illustratively the frame may be a plastic frame or other type of frame. With reference to the frame may include a front side a back side and side walls e.g. top side wall bottom side wall and lateral side walls that may extend from the front side to the back side of the frame and form a space therewithin as best shown in . When positioned in the first sub assembly the front side of the frame may face away from the first PCB or PWB and the back side of the frame may face toward the first PCB or PWB .

One or more of the side walls of the frame may include one or more reflective features where the reflective features may be shaped to reflect and or distribute incident light across at least part of the of the backlight guide plate the display and or the touch screen . As best shown in the top side wall of the frame may include a plurality of reflective features . In some cases the reflective features to the extent there are two or more reflective features on the frame may be substantially equally equally or irregularly spaced across one or more sides of the display and or touch screen when the display and or the touch screen are positioned within the frame to substantially equally spread light across the display and or focus light on one or more particular locations as desired.

The reflective features may have any shape and or may take on any configuration with respect to the frame . For example the reflective features may be formed integrally with the frame or may be separate features connected to the frame . The reflective features may have a shape that directs reflected light in a particular manner. In one example the reflective features may be at least partially cone shaped and or may be convex from a back side perspective to spread reflected light about one or more of the touch screen the display and or the backlight guide plate .

The backlight guide plate may have a front side and a back side as shown in . In some cases back side of the backlight guide plate may be affixed to the reflective layer with adhesive and or through other mechanisms.

One or more recesses of the backlight guide plate may correspond or be in registration with one of the one or more reflective features of the frame . In some cases the one or more recesses may have a shape that is configured to mate with a corresponding reflective feature of the frame such that light passing through the one or more recesses may be reflected and spread out by the reflective features of the frame .

In some instances the backlight guide plate may allow light from one or more light sources e.g. light emitting diodes LEDs or other light sources connected to the first PCB or PWB or other light features to pass through one or more holes or openings in the reflective layer where the holes or openings may be in registration with the one or more recesses of the backlight guide plate so as to allow light from the one or more light sources to reach the one or more recesses or concave features of the backlight guide plate . Such light from light sources may be in registration with corresponding one or more protrusions on the back side of the backlight guide plate and or one or more recesses e.g. at least partially concave features on the front side of the backlight guide plate to focus light on optimized portions of reflective surfaces of the frame backlight guide plate and or reflective layer . Illustratively the configuration of the backlight guide plate in communication with light from the light sources may provide light to reflective features of the frame and or incident light to one or more recesses of the backlight guide plate from the corresponding reflective features in order to distribute the incident light across the backlight guide plate the display and or the touch screen . In some cases the light is distributed across the display such that the display appears to have an even brightness across the display.

Illustratively the display the backlight guide plate and or the touch screen may be positioned at least partially within the frame . In one example the display the backlight guide plate and or the touch screen may be at least partially positioned within the space defined by the frame . In some cases one or more connectors as best shown in of the frame e.g. back stop features adjacent the back side of the frame or front stop features adjacent the front side of the frame may stop the display the backlight guide plate and or the touch screen from sliding out of the back side and or the front side of the frame .

In some cases when the display sub assembly is positioned within the first sub assembly the backlight guide plate may be positioned at least partially between the display and the first PCB or PWB . In one illustrative example of when the display sub assembly may be positioned within the first sub assembly some of the features thereof may be positioned in the following order e.g. from front to back the touch screen e.g. a touch screen module the display e.g. a display module the backlight guide plate and the reflective layer all secured relative to the frame . The frame may then secure the display sub assembly to the first PCB or PWB . In some cases one or more connectors of the frame e.g. one or more first interference tabs as best shown in and on the front side and or the back side of the frame may engage the first PCB or PWB to releasably secure the display sub assembly to the first PCB or PWB . The one or more connectors may releasably engage the first PCB or PWB through any type of connection including an interference connection where the connectors extend through an opening or hole in the first PCB or PWB to make a releasable connection and or through any other type of suitable connection.

In some instances the first sub assembly may be assembled according to an illustrative method. In one example method a display a touch screen and or a backlight guide plate may be connected to the frame with an interference connection or any other type of connection using one or more connectors e.g. interfering tabs or other connectors on the back side of the frame . In some cases an interference connection may be a snap connection. When in the frame the backlight guide plate may be positioned behind e.g. toward the back side of the frame the display . Illustratively the method may further include connecting the frame to the first PCB or PWB using an interference connection with one or more connectors e.g. interfering tabs or any other connectors such that the backlight guide plate is adjacent to the first PCB or PWB and such that one or more of the reflective features of the frame may align with a corresponding light source on the first PCB or PWB .

The touch screen and or the display of the display sub assembly may be secured within the enclosure e.g. within housing as shown for example in such that an ESD may have a path to a ground pad or grounding feature of the first PCB or PWB such that the ESD does not negatively affect e.g. damage the display or other components. In some cases a conductive trace along adjacent or parallel to a perimeter of a touch screen of the display sub assembly may provide a path for the ESD from the touch screen or other feature to a grounding feature. Illustratively the conductive trace may extend adjacent or along and spaced from a perimeter of the aperture in the housing that exposes at least part of the front side of the display sub assembly for viewing by a user. In one example the conductive trace may be positioned on the first side of the display sub assembly between the first side and the housing e.g. the cover of the housing .

In some cases the touch screen may include a conductive trace at around adjacent to spaced from and or parallel to a perimeter of the touch screen as best shown in . The conductive trace may form a complete loop e.g. a closed loop or may include one or more gaps therein so as to not form a closed loop. In an illustrative example the conductive trace may form a closed loop or non closed loop and may be disposed on or adjacent the front side of the display sub assembly where the conductive trace may be disposed at around adjacent to inward from and or parallel to the perimeter of the touch screen forming the first side of the display sub assembly .

In some instances no adhesive or glue is used between the conductive trace s and an edge of the touch screen to facilitate creating an electrical path that ESD will follow. In the conductive trace is added on top of the touch screen where new wires or traces on a tail connect the conductive trace to a ground plane or ground feature on the first PCB or PWB . Alternatively or in addition the conductive trace may be added to the display sub assembly in any other manner. As shown in the conductive trace is connected to one of the existing wires on the tail . In some illustrative cases the conductive trace s may be spaced inward from an outer edge of the touch screen of the display sub assembly as shown.

The conductive trace s may be implemented in one or more of several different manners to effectively provide a path for the ESD to a grounding feature of or on the PCB or PWB . For example to provide a path for an ESD to a grounding feature of or on the PCB or PWB the conductive trace s may extend to an edge of the display see strips of a conductive material may be applied to the touch screen that are or are electrically connected to the conductive traces and extend to an edge of the touch screen e.g. thin strips that may be spaced approximately 0.2 inches apart and have a width of 0.02 inches or other strips configured in any manner as desired e.g. see openings or holes may be placed in the conductive trace e.g. holes spaced approximately 0.1 inches 0.2 inches 0.3 inches or any other distance apart and having a diameter of approximate 0.01 inches 0.02 inches 0.03 inches 0.04 inches 0.05 inches or any other diameter e.g. see one or more portions represented by the hashed lines in of a foil layer of the touch screen may be removed from the edge of the touch screen to an outer edge of the conductive trace s e.g. the foil layer may be cut and removed from the touch screen see and or any other configuration may be utilized to use the conductive traces and the tail s connected thereto to provide an electrical path to a ground feature of one or more of the first PCB or PWB and the second PCB or PWB .

As shown in the example of the conductive trace may have a first portion and a second portion where the first portion may extend substantially or entirely around the front side of the display sub assembly e.g. at or spaced from the outer edge or perimeter of the display sub assembly . The second portion of the conductive trace may include a plurality of strips spaced from one another and extending from the first portion of the conductive trace toward and or to the outer edge or perimeter of the display sub assembly e.g. the outer edge or perimeter of the touch screen or other feature of the display sub assembly .

In an illustrative method of forming an electrical ESD path between the display sub assembly and the first PCB or PWB a conductive trace may be provided on a front side of the display sub assembly e.g. the touch screen adjacent a perimeter of the display sub assembly . The first PCB or PWB may be positioned adjacent the back side of the display sub assembly and the conductive trace may be electrically connected to a grounding feature of the first PCB or PWB via an electrical connector e.g. at tail .

In one illustrative instance the method may include mechanically connecting and or removably fixing the display sub assembly to the first PCB or PWB . In one example the touch screen the display the reflective layer and the backlight guide plate may be removably fixed within the frame via connectors and or other connectors. The display sub assembly and the frame may then be removably fixed to the first PCB or PWB via connectors tail and or other connectors to form a connection and an electrical ESD path between the display sub assembly and the first PCB or PWB .

The thermostat may be configured to be used with virtually all heating and cooling systems for both residential and commercial applications. Additionally or alternatively the thermostat may be capable of working with one or more accessories e.g. RedLINK accessories or any other accessory which may allow contractors to reduce inventory costs and or realize other business advantages. In some instances the thermostat may be wired directly to wired indirectly to and or wirelessly connected to the accessories and or power sources.

It is contemplated that the thermostat may be powered at least in part by using one or more batteries e.g. lithium ion batteries AA batteries AAA batteries etc. alternating current AC and or direct current DC . Although the thermostat may be battery powered it may additionally or alternatively be wired for power as referred to above. In one example the thermostat may have a direct or indirect wired or wireless connection to HVAC equipment in a non zoned HVAC system and can be powered with two 2 wires e.g. a power or hot wire and a common wire or by battery only. In another example the thermostat may have a direct or indirect wired or wireless connection to HVAC equipment in a zoned HVAC system and can be powered with two 2 wires e.g. a power or hot wire and a common wire or by battery only. In a further example the thermostat may work with an equipment interface module EMI where one or more pieces of HVAC equipment and or accessories may have a wired and or wireless connection to the EIM while the thermostat is powered with two wires e.g. a power or hot wire and a common wire or by battery only e.g. for a completely wireless thermostat or for other reasons . In a further example the thermostat may work with a TrueZONE wireless adapter or other wireless adaptor where one or more pieces of HVAC equipment and or accessories may have a wired or wireless connection to a TrueZONE panel or other zone panel such that the thermostat may control a zone panel via a wireless adapter while the thermostat may be powered with two 2 wires e.g. a power or hot wire and a common wire or by battery only e.g. for a completely wireless thermostat or for other reasons . In some instances the processor or controller of the thermostat may be programmable to send control signals for HVAC components through the EIM the wireless adapter the zone panel and or directly or otherwise indirectly to one or more of the HVAC components.

It is contemplated that latching relays may be used to provide control signals from the thermostat and to an HVAC system or the like. Due to their relatively low power consumption latching relays may be particularly useful when the thermostat is battery powered. Latching relays however remain in their last state latched state until power is applied to switch the state. Thus without proper control the latching relays will tend to stay in their previous latched state when battery or other power is disconnected and or when becoming disconnected from a controlling microcontroller. This can cause an HVAC system to remain in a non desirable state if either of these conditions occurs.

As detailed above the second sub assembly may include a second PCB or PWB with electronic components e.g. terminal blocks relays latching relays etc. of which only a few are illustratively labeled in the Figures and or other features or components. In some cases one or more wires from a building conditioning system e.g. a heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system may connect to the terminal block or other component of the second PCB or PWB of the second sub assembly . A microcontroller of the first PCB or PWB may generate control signals to control the state of one or more latching relays on the second PCB or PWB . The one or more latching relays may then provide a corresponding control signal to the HVAC system via wires connected to the terminal blocks . If power is disconnected and or if the first sub assembly is separated from the second sub assembly the latching relays will remain in their previous latched state. This can be undesirable. For example if the previous latched state corresponds to a furnace on state the furnace will remain on until power is restored and or until the first sub assembly is reconnected to the second sub assembly regardless of the temperature in the building. This can waste energy create uncomfortable conditions and in some cases can cause damage.

As seen in latching relays may be connected to a microprocessor or microcontroller of a thermostat such that a position e.g. an opened position or a closed position or other position of the latching relays may be controlled by the microprocessor or microcontroller . At times e.g. when dismounting a portion of the thermostat it may be desirable to separate the microprocessor portion first portion of the thermostat from the other portion e.g. second portion that includes the latching relays. As noted above this can cause the latching relays to be left in an undesirable or improper position.

In some instances the microcontroller and or other processors of the first portion of the thermostat which may or may not include ESD sensitive components may be located on the first PWB or PCB having a first set of circuitry thereon to which the microcontroller may be connected. The second portion of the thermostat may include the second PWB or PCB secured relative to a second housing of the second sub assembly where the second portion of the thermostat may be releasably securable to the first portion of the thermostat . The second PWB or PCB may include a second set of circuitry e.g. circuitry that may or may not include ESD sensitive components but does include at least one or more relays one or more capacitors and or one or more terminal blocks capable of being powered by a power source V e.g. wired power batteries etc. and configured to receive one or more control signals from the first PWB or PCB when the second portion is releasably engaged with the first portion . The second PWB or PCB may also provide one or more corresponding control signals to the one or more output terminals of the second portion for control of one or more HVAC component in communication with the thermostat . In some cases the circuitry of the second PWB or PCB may be configured to set one or more output terminals of the second portion to a predetermined state when the first portion is released and or at least partially disengaged from the second portion e.g. disengage electrical communication from the first PWB or PCB to the second PWB or PCB . In one illustrative example the circuitry of the second PWB or PCB will automatically set the output terminals of the second portion to a predetermined state when the first sub assembly ceases electrical communication with e.g. is released and or at least partially disengaged from the second sub assembly .

It is contemplated that latching relays which may be located on the second PCB or PWB of the second sub assembly may be properly configured e.g. configured to set the output terminals to the predetermined state when separated from a microprocessor or microcontroller or the like e.g. when the first sub assembly is separated from the second sub assembly . For example when the first portion and the second portion are engaged e.g. in electrical communication the configuration of the latching relays may be controlled by the microcontroller and when the first portion and the second portion become disengaged the configuration of the latching relays may be set by circuitry on the second portion .

In one example of utilizing the second set of circuitry on the second portion to control the position of the latching relays when the first sub assembly e.g. first portion becomes disengaged from the second sub assembly e.g. second portion e.g. when the first sub assembly may be electrically disengaged from the second sub assembly pre set logic levels on a control bus or on appropriate terminals may position the one or more latching relays into a configuration that provides one or more corresponding control signals to the one or more output terminals of the second portion . In some instances this may be accomplished through the use of one or more pull down resistors and or one or more pull up resistors of the second set of circuitry on the second PWB or PCB . In an illustrative example the approach used to properly position the latching relays when the first portion is disengaged from the second portion e.g. position the latching relays so as to turn off connected external devices or position the latching relays in any other predetermined manner may be preordained for single coil relays driven by an coil . In some examples the system may include two pull down resistors and one pull up resistor or other configurations of resistors and or electrical components capable of positioning the latching relays in a predetermined position so as to turn off connected external devices when the first portion is at least partially electrically disconnected from the second portion .

When the first portion of the thermostat which includes the microcontroller and or other control circuit is separated e.g. at least partially electrically separated from the second portion of the thermostat that includes the latching relays the logic levels on a control bus or other terminals may no longer be set by the microcontroller as they would be when the first portion of the thermostat is in electrical communication with the second portion of the thermostat . With the use of appropriate pull down and or pull up resistors e.g. one or more pull down resistors and one or more pull up resistors the logic levels may be automatically controlled by the pull down resistor s and or the pull up resistor s in the absence of the control signals from the microcontroller . As a result once separated the current through the relay coils of the latching relays may automatically flow according to predetermined logic levels in an appropriate direction to set the state of the latching relays such that all of the external devices e.g. external device are switched off. The particular state off on for any particularly relay may be programmed by choosing an appropriate pull up or pull down resistor configuration. In some instances the configuration utilizing pull down resistors and pull up resistor s may allow for the elimination of an auxiliary driving circuit such as a microcontroller a logic array etc.

Inputs to a first part e.g. a first terminal and or a second part e.g. a second terminal of the coils may be operatively coupled to corresponding one or more control signals from the first set of circuitry of the first portion of the thermostat e.g. from the microcontroller of the first portion when the first portion and the second portion are engaged e.g. are electrically communicating . Inputs to the first terminal of the coils may be pulled up by the pull down resistors through an operative coupling e.g. inverter therewith to VDD when the first portion of the thermostat is electrically disengaged from the second portion of the thermostat . Inputs to the second terminal of the coils may be pulled down by a pull up resistor and a power supply Vthrough an operative coupling e.g. inverter therewith when the first portion of the thermostat is electrically disengaged from the second portion of the thermostat . Thus when the first portion of the thermostat which includes a microcontroller or other controller is electrically separated from second portion of the thermostat e.g. electrically separated the logic levels at the control bus of the second portion of the thermostat may be automatically defined by the pull down resistors and the pull up resistor through the operative couplings e.g. inverters . As a result current may flow in the same direction through all of the rely coils forcing all latching relays into the same e.g. closed state. When the first portion of the thermostat having the microcontroller is reconnected to the second portion of the thermostat the microcontroller or other circuit provides a common signal for all of the latching relays to common pin to over drive the pull up resistor and the control bus may over drive the pull down resistors to pull the relay control terminals to their desired controlled state.

In some cases a capacitor or other power storage device may be used to provide power to the second portion of the thermostat for a relatively short duration e.g. less than 1 hour less than 10 minutes less than 1 minute less than 1 second etc . During this relatively short duration the latching relays may be set to a state that turns off all external devices . Once the latching relays are latched into an appropriate state power from the power storage device may no longer be needed. The power storage device may be a capacitor battery or any other power storage device as desired.

As can be seen this circuit arrangement on second portion of the thermostat may allow for a simple reliable and low cost solution to controlling the state of the relays when the first portion of the thermostat having a microcontroller or other controller is separated from the second portion of the thermostat that includes latching relays.

In some cases the second side of the second PCB or PWB may include one or more test pads. In one illustrative example the test pads of the second side of the second PCB or PWB may be connected and are suitable for performing functional tests of the microcontroller and or other circuitry of the first PCB or PWB and or circuitry of the second PCB or PWB when the first sub assembly is releasably engaged with the second sub assembly .

The display sub assembly may create an interface display on the display which a user may interact with in any manner including but not limited to interacting with the interface display through touching a screen buttons adjacent to or on the interface display a remote device and or though some other interaction mechanisms. In some instances the interface display may be provided by a display that has a 2 dimensional array of pixels that covers the full display area of the display . In some instances the interface display may be provided by a display that is a segmented display which includes a plurality of predefined segments that can be switched on and off to give the appearance of desired characters icons or other graphical features. In a segmented display the predefined segments are not arranged in a full 2 dimensional array of pixels that covers the full display area of the display . Rather at least some of the predefined segments are elongated define a symbol or icon or otherwise do not fall into a simple 2 dimensional array of pixels. It is contemplated that the display may be any suitable display panel using any suitable display panel technology including for example Eidophor Electroluminescent display ELD Electronic paper E Ink Gyricon Light emitting diode display LED Cathode ray tube CRT Monoscope Liquid crystal display LCD TFT LED Blue Phase IPS Plasma display panel PDP ALiS Digital Light Processing DLP Liquid crystal on silicon LCoS Organic light emitting diode OLED AMOLED Organic light emitting transistor OLET Surface conduction electron emitter display SED Field emission display FED Laser TV Quantum dot Liquid crystal MEMS display IMoD TMOS DMS Quantum dot display QD LED Ferro liquid display FLD Thick film dielectric electroluminescent technology TDEL Telescopic pixel display TPD Laser Phosphor Display LPD .

In some instances the display may be a segmented display that has predefined segments that 1 define a 2 dimensional array of pixels in a first region or area of the display and 2 define segments of segmented characters symbols or icons or otherwise do not fall into a simple 2 dimensional array of pixels in a second region or area of the display . For simplicity the first region or area may sometimes be referred to as a dot matrix display area and the second region or area may be referred to as a fixed segment display area even though in some cases the first region or area may be formed from an array of fixed segments that are configured as a 2 dimensional array of fixed segment pixels. The first region or area may function as a message center that can be used to display text based messages animations and or other information. In some cases the first region or area may be configured to only display two 2 lines of text but this is just one example. In some cases the second region or area may encompass the remainder of the display that is not part of the first region or area . In some cases the display may be an LCD display panel where each of the plurality of predefined segments in both the first region or area and the second region or area are each layed out on a substrate and independently controllable by the processor or controller of the first sub assembly . Such an LCD panel may consume relatively low power e.g. suitable for battery powered devices and may be selectively backlit by the backlight system of the display sub assembly .

The one or more areas e.g. the second area the first area and or other areas may be controllable with software firmware and or other computer executable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium of the thermostat or other device that is capable of communicating with the thermostat . In some instances the thermostat may include memory and or a processor that is configured to save record and or operate the software firmware or other computer executable instructions.

For purposes of this disclosure where the interface display is described as having first second and so on portions the numerical indicators e.g. first second third etc. are meant for explanatory purposes only and are not meant to be limiting unless otherwise indicated. The numerical indicators may are used for clarity purposes to distinguish between one feature relative to another and the numerical indicators may be switched.

In some cases the message center e.g. the first area with a two 2 line dot matrix area may be capable of displaying up to three full lines of text e.g. three full lines of text or graphics two full separate lines of text or graphics and up to two half or partial lines of text or graphics two partial lines of text or graphics with one or more full lines of texts or graphics etc. . The full and or partial lines of text or graphics may be full or partial lines in the vertical and or horizontal directions. In one example the first area may simultaneously display in a vertical direction an integer number of options e.g. on a full line of text or graphics plus a fraction of an option e.g. on a partial line of text or graphics on about a half line of text or graphics etc. . In a further example the first area of the interface display may simultaneously display in a vertical direction two options on separate full lines of text plus a fraction of a third option on a partial line of text. The options discussed herein may include but are not limited to lists of options selectable options installer setup options sensor control options program scheduling options programmable options menu list items or options questions or queries informative messages directions alerts warnings logs other options capable of being displayed on a message center and or any combinations thereof. Such displayable options may be used together or separate and or may viewed or obtained by selection of another option.

In some cases programmable options may be used to set settings of the thermostat that may be used for controlling subsequent operation and or functionality of the HVAC controller. As such selection of the options in the first area of the interface display may allow a user to set or change a programmable option that may modify a subsequent operation and or functionality of the thermostat . Illustratively subsequent operation and or functionality of the HVAC controller may include among other features where temperature and or humidity is sensed how temperature and or humidity is sensed a schedule for the HVAC components of the HVAC controller etc. In some cases menu options may be used to navigate to a menu that may allow a user to change an option that modifies subsequent operation and or functionality of the thermostat .

In some instances the controller or processor of the thermostat may be programmed such that first area of the user interface display displays one or more captions in a first line of text and a check box or other toggle box or other feature in a second row above or below the row with the one or more captions. An option displayed in the first area with a caption may be selected by touching or pressing a button of the thermostat and or by touching an active touch area in the first area of the user interface display . The button may be an defined button in the second area a hard button that is situated adjacent to the screen or any other suitable button. The active touch area in the first area may be an active touch area associated with the displayed option and may take up the entire first area or a portion of the first area that is less than the entire first area . Once an option displayed in the first area is selected a check box or toggle box may depict a selection has been made for example by displaying a check in a box an X in a box by filling in a box and or otherwise marking a box or about a box to indicate the displayed option has been selected. Additionally or alternatively a previously selected box may be deselected by touching or pressing a button of the thermostat and or by touching an active touch area of the first area that is associated with the displayed option. Such a display of options with a check box or toggle box may be utilized for selection of days of the week holidays and or vacation days for setting a schedule for setting which air sensors to use for sensing environmental conditions and or for any other option which may be selected and or deselected. This is just one example of how an option may be selected.

In some instances the controller or processor of the thermostat may be programmed such that the message center e.g. first area may provide an instruction a query and or a question or a sequence of instructions queries and or questions e.g. one or more queries or questions two or more queries or questions etc. to a user viewing and or using the message center. Additionally or alternatively the message center may be capable of accepting responses to queries and or questions which may be processed by the processor or controller of the thermostat . Illustratively responses may include a selection of a displayed option entering text and or other responses in the first area and or the second area of the interface display and or via one or more hard buttons of the thermostat .

In response to the acceptances of responses or answers the thermostat may configure the processor or controller to operate under one of the three control configurations discussed above one or more of the two power configurations and or may configure the processor or controller of the thermostat in one or more other manners. Illustratively the questions or queries and or the accepting of responses or answers may be part of one or more setup processes or other processes to identify one or more HVAC components to be controlled by the thermostat to identify one or more thermostat settings to identify one or more configuration settings to identify one or more power configurations etc.

Instructions queries and or questions may be utilized for any purpose for example for setting up a schedule of operation for the thermostat. In such instances example instructions queries and or questions may include but are not limited to SELECT DAYS WITH SAME SCHEDULE. PRESS NEXT AFTER SELECTING DAY. e.g. after selecting a day this new instruction may be displayed in the first area IS SOMEONE HOME ALL DAY NO OR YES e.g. where NO and YES may have separate associated active touch areas and or may be selectable by selecting a button in communication with a processor or controller of the thermostat WHEN DOES THE FIRST PERSON WAKE UP WHEN DOES THE LAST PERSON LEAVE WHEN DOES THE FIRST PERSON RETURN WHEN DOES THE LAST PERSON GO TO SLEEP SET YOUR WAKE TEMPERATURE. SET YOUR LEAVE TEMPERATURE. SCHEDULE YOUR FAN TOO WAKE FAN SETTING. LEAVE FAN SETTING RETURN FAN SETTING SLEEP FAN SETTING SCHEDULE MORE DAYS REPEAT STEPS IF YOU WANT TO SCHEDULE MORE DAYS. REVIEW SCHEDULE SAVING CHANGES. and or any other instructions queries and or questions as desired.

In some instances the controller or processor of the thermostat may be programmed or otherwise configured to display one or more options of the thermostat in the first area of the interface display for selection by a user e.g. selectable options as referred to above. The processor or controller of the thermostat may allow a user to select one or more options e.g. select a single displayed option or select between two or more options etc. where the options may be displayed in the first area of the thermostat .

In one instance the controller or processor of the thermostat may be configured to display less than all of the two or more options e.g. display one line of an option and less than a full line of another option in the first region of the display at any given time. Any of the options or items displayed in the first area may be available for selection by a user by one or more of touching the option and interacting with one or more buttons.

In some cases the controller or processor of the thermostat may be programmed or otherwise configured to animate one or more options or items displayed in the first area . For example animated options or items may include displayed options or items in the first area that a user may scroll through. In one example as a user scrolls through the displayed options or items the options or items may appear to move in a vertical horizontal or vertical and horizontal direction and or any combination thereof including diagonal directions. Although the options or items may be animated in any manner in some cases the animation of the one or more options or items may include incrementally moving the one or more options or items so that the one or more of the options or items appear to move in the first area of the interface display.

In some instances the first area of the interface display may display an option on a full line of text e.g. an integer option therein and one or more options on one or more partial lines of text above and or below the full line of text. Illustratively the presence of options listed on one or more partial lines of text above and or below the full line of text may indicate to the user that there are additional available options by scrolling up and or down respectively. In instances when an option is displayed on a partial line of text below the full line of text and no option is displayed above the full line of text a top of the list may be indicated and further options may be displayed by scrolling down though the options. In instances when an option is displayed on a partial line of text above the full line of text and no option is displayed below the full line of text a bottom of the list may be indicated and further options may be displayed by scrolling up though the options.

The options or items displayed in the first area may be scrolled through e.g. in a direction of a partial line of text and or selected by interacting with a button of the thermostat and or touching the interface display and interacting with the touch screen . In some cases interacting with and or activation of a button of the thermostat may cause the controller or processor of the thermostat to selectively animate one or more of the options or items displayed in the first area . The button s of the thermostat may correspond to a physical button that may be offset from the interface display and or the button s of the thermostat may correspond to a button region defined on the interface display in one or more of the first area and the second area . In one example the second area may include one or more predefined touch regions where each touch region of the second area may correspond to a different button of the thermostat . Illustratively selection of a button e.g. an arrow or other button in the second area of the user interface display may cause the processor or controller to highlight a different selectable option in the first region of the user interface display and touching the button multiple times may cause the processor or controller to highlight another selectable option in the first area of the user interface display .

In some cases the options or items displayed on the first area of the interface display may be scrolled through and or adjusted by touching the touch screen . In one example to scroll through and or navigate between two or more selectable options the processor or controller may be configured to recognize when a user touches the interface display and moves along the touch screen e.g. moves along the touch screen in a swiping manner such as a dragging or pushing motion . In response to recognizing the movement along the touch screen the two or more options may be animated and or scrolled through in a vertical and or horizontal manner. Additionally or alternatively the processor or controller of the thermostat may recognize swiping motions on the touch screen within the first area of the interface display and may display one or more next screens in a sequence of screens e.g. when setting a schedule when setting up the thermostat and or when using other sequences of screens .

In some cases the processor or controller may be configured to accept a selection of a displayed option by detecting a user touch of the displayed selectable option via the touch screen . In some cases the processor or controller of the thermostat may define an active touch area for each selectable option e.g. touch selectable option displayed on the display of the thermostat e.g. a touch selectable option displayed on the first area and or the second area of the interface display . The active touch area for each selectable option may or may not be viewable in normal use of the thermostat . In one example when two or more selectable options are displayed simultaneously on the first area of the interface display the processor or controller may define an active touch area for each of the two or more selectable options such that if a user touches the interface display within a defined active touch area the associated selectable option will be selected.

In some instances the processor or controller may highlight a selected selectable option in response to receiving a user touch within an active touch area and or in response to receiving any other selection signal for a particular selectable option or set of options. The highlighted portion may represent the entirety of the active touch area associated with the selectable option as best shown in . Alternatively the highlighted portion may not represent the entirety of the active touch area associated with the selectable option. In one example of highlighting a selectable option the processor or controller may be configured to highlight a selectable option response to receiving a first user touch at a position of the interface display associated with a selectable option e.g. within an active touch area and then selecting the selectable option upon a second touch by a user or by a touch and hold by a user where selecting the selectable option may include the thermostat e.g. the controller or processor thereof performing an action associated with the selected selectable option.

In an illustrative method a first selectable option may be displayed in the first area of the interface display of the thermostat . A user may provide an input and the thermostat may accept they input where the input may correspond to interacting with the first selectable option. In response to accepting the input from the user the controller may animate the first selectable option e.g. move horizontally or vertically off the screen and animate a second selectable option e.g. move horizontally or vertically onto the screen in the first area of the interface display of the thermostat . Further a user may provide an input that relates to the second selectable option and the controller or processor of the thermostat may accept the input from the user and select the second selectable option. In some instances the second selectable option may be highlighted and or a new display may be displayed in response to the selection of the second selectable option.

As shown for example in and similarly shown in an illustrative home screen may be displayed on the interface display . In the second area several active touch and or interactive features may be displayed. For example a time a following schedule indicator a current temperature a current humidity a scheduled temperature temperature setting arrows a home button a fan button a system button a menu button and or other active and or interactive features may be displayed in the first area of the interface display . In the home screen see the first area may be capable of displaying the active system e.g. Heat as shown for example in Cool Auto Off and or other system currently being controlled by the thermostat .

In some instances and on some screens the interface display may include any number of fixed controls in the second area to facilitate creating and or modify text characters. For example the interface display may include 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 etc. fixed controls in the second area as desired. In one example the interface display may include six 6 fixed controls in the second area as shown in e.g. with respect to a dealer name screen but such fixed controls may be used with respect to other screens . The six 6 fixed controls in the second area of may include but are not limited to a left arrow and a right arrow below the first area to move within the text an up arrow and a down arrow on the side of the first area or other area to scroll through characters and an up arrow to switch from lower case letters to upper case letters as shown for example in and a down arrow to switch from upper case letters to lower case letters as shown for example in . Alternatively arrows and may facilitate switching between other types of character sets. In some cases one or more e.g. two 2 buttons e.g. a delete button and a space button may be positioned within the second area which may be pressed or selected to create empty spaces before after and or between characters and or to delete characters.

Returning to the second area of the interface display may include one or more active touch areas. For example these active touch areas may include but are not limited to the time area which may be selected to go directly to a set time set date screen the current humidity level area e.g. a current indoor humidity level or a current outdoor humidity level to go to a humidification screen a dehumidification screen or a menu listing HUMIDIFICATION and DEHUMIDIFICATION the following schedule text area which may be selected to go directly to a menu screen see with the EDIT SCHEDULE item highlighted a READING AT REMOTE not shown text area which may be select to display the question CANCEL READING AT REMOTE in the first area of the interface display a program time area see in the view schedule mode which may be selected to revert the interface display to the edit schedule mode see in which the beginning time for time period of an HVAC system schedule may be set the program temperature areas see in the view schedule mode which may be selected to revert the interface display to the edit schedule mode see in which a temperature for a time period of an HVAC system schedule may be set and or other active touch areas utilized for other purposes as desired.

In one example when the thermostat is setup for humidification and not dehumidification and a user presses or selects the current humidity level area the interface display of the thermostat may go directly to a humidification setting screen not shown from which a user may be able to adjust all humidification settings. In an example where the thermostat is setup for dehumidification and not humidification and a user presses or selects the current humidity level area the interface display of the thermostat may go directly to a dehumidification setting screen from which a user may be able to adjust all dehumidification settings. In a further example where the thermostat is setup for humidification and dehumidification and a user presses or selects the current humidity level area the interface display of the thermostat may go directly to the menu screen with a humidification item highlighted in the first area of the interface display . A user may then press or select the select button to go to the humidification setting screen or scroll until the dehumidification item is highlighted and then press or selected the select button to go to the dehumidification settings screen.

In some instances as discussed the first area may be an active touch sensitive area of the interface display . Allowing the first area to be an active touch sensitive area may allow for buttons text and or other features in the second area of the interface display to be larger and or easier for users to interact with. The active touch sensitive area of the interface display may be utilized for the following operations among others 1 select a system mode 2 select a fan mode 3 pressing on a highlighted item in a menu list in the first area to go to a screen for the highlighted item 4 pressing PRESS HERE TO START OCCUPANCY in the first area to go to an occupied period when the thermostat is setup for Initiate Occupancy 5 pressing an hour a minute a month a day a year numbers to make the pressed item the active item that can be changed by pressing or selecting the up button and or down button when in a set time date screen 6 pressing the day month year numbers to make the pressed item the active item that can be changed by pressing or selecting the up button and or the down button when in vacation mode to change the selected item when in vacation mode setup screens 7 pressing a message of PRESS HERE TO RESET TIMER in the first area to reset a reminder when reminders are selected from a preferences mode screen 8 pressing a message of 1 ALERT ACTIVE. PRESS HERE FOR INFORMATION in the first area when an alert is active to go to more detailed information about the active alert 9 pressing on a check box in the first area for selecting a holiday when the thermostat is setup for commercial use 10 pressing a message of PERIOD CANCELED PRESS TO RESTORE in the first area to restore a program period after it has been canceled when in the change schedule screen 11 pressing a message of PRESS HERE TO EDIT in the first area to enter custom reminder setup and or dealer information setup during installer setup and 12 pressing on the word DELETE or SPACE in the first area to delete a letter or add a space respectively while in the custom reminder and or dealer information setup screens.

In some instances the first area may be navigated with swiping movements and or direct interaction with features therein. In one example in addition to or as an alternative to using an up arrow a down arrow a left arrow a right arrow a back button a next button and or other feature adjacent the first area a user may be able to swipe their finger s a stylus or other tool across and or within the first area to move to a next screen and or scroll through a list. The list may move in an animated manner if desired to help give the visual effect of scrolling through the list the swiped direction. Alternatively or in addition a user may be able to highlight and or select one or more options listed in the first area by touching the one or more desired options within the first area with a finger s a stylus and or other tool.

The thermostat may use one or more of several menus to access user settings and or installer settings. From the home screen see and or other screens these menus may be accessed by selecting the menu button . Once the menu button has been selected a list of menus may be displayed in the first area of the interface display which may be scrolled through with the up arrow and or the down arrow as shown in for example . The list of menus may include but is not limited to EDIT SCHEDULE VIEW SCHEDULE VACATION MODE HOLIDAY SCHEDULE HOLIDAY MODE EQUIPMENT STATUS DATE TIME PREFERENCES CLEAN SCREEN SECURITY SETTINGS DEALER INFORMATION INSTALLER OPTIONS MAIN MENU INSTALLER SETUP WIRELESS MANAGER and or other menus.

When a desired menu item is highlighted e.g. EDIT SCHEDULE as shown in a select button positioned in the second area or other area of the interface display may be pressed or selected to go to a screen for the highlighted menu item. Alternatively or in addition a user may tap the first area to select the highlighted menu item. Once a menu item has been selected further sub menu items or options may be provided that are classified under the selected menu item and or the interface display may allow for a respective adjustment to thermostat in response to the selection.

The menus of thermostat depicted in the first area of the interface display may have vertical animation that may allow for scrolling through the lists of menus and or options. Although the first area may only display two 2 lines of text the first area may display virtually any number of items in a menu list. In some instances the first area may display the list such that a first item on the list is entirely viewable and a second item on the list is only partially viewable see . The partially viewable item on the list may indicate to the user that there are further items in the list. The partially viewable item may be below or above the fully viewable item.

The vertical animation may allow the list of menu items to be scrolled through by pressing or selecting the down arrow and or the up arrow while allowing a user to visually see that they are moving up or down through the menu list. Pushing the down arrow may make the menu list move up which in turn may make a user think they are heading to the bottom of the menu list. Pushing the up arrow button may make the menu list move down which in turn may make a user think they are heading to the top of the menu list.

In some instances the vertical animation may facilitate a user in distinguishing between two similar menu items or menu items that may have the same name. Because the menu item may appear to physically move when the up arrow and or the down arrow are pressed the user may be able to see that they have moved onto the next menu item in the list. In one example when a user is in a WIRELESS MANAGER menu and is viewing connected devices including multiple indoor sensors with the same or similar name if the first area did not have vertical animation the user may not be able to tell how many remote indoor sensors are connected to the thermostat because the screen would not change at all when the up arrow and or the down arrow are pressed or selected in a static screen. Rather than scrolling through the menu items using one or more buttons in the second area it is contemplated that a user may scroll through the items by making a swiping gesture in the first area as further described herein.

Similar to the vertical animation of first area of the interface display the first area may have and or utilize horizontal animation. The horizontal animation of the first area may be utilized to visually indicate when a user is moving forward or moving backward in a setup process or other process. In one example when a next button is pressed or selected the text in the first area may slide to the left and when the back button is pressed or selected the text in the display may slide to the right. The horizontal animation may be used in among other places installer setup program scheduling e.g. when using a scheduling assistant setting a vacation hold etc.

Upon initial set up when the thermostat is first powered on and or at other times the interface display may take a user e.g. a contractor or other user through an enrollment scheme . As shown for example in the enrollment scheme may include a connection setting portion an accessory enrollment portion e.g. a RedLINK enrollment portion that may include identification of the thermostat s and or accessories and a thermostat setup portion .

The connection setting portion may include one or more of several screens depicted on the interface display where each step or screen may have a Setup area . As shown for example in one screen may allow a user to select the application in which the thermostat will be primarily used e.g. residential commercial or other use of the thermostat in setup . The application may be selected by scrolling through a list of applications e.g. residential commercial etc. and when the application is highlighted in the first area a next button e.g. a button may be a mechanical button or as shown in the Figures may be a button on the touch sensitive interface display may be pressed or selected to go to a next screen.

Once an application has been selected the connection setting portion may ask a user to select a device name for thermostat in Setup as shown for example in . One or more device names may be in a list through which a user may scroll with the up arrow and or down arrow . The list may include the following device names among others THERMOSTAT 1 THERMOSTAT 2 THERMOSTAT 3 THERMOSTAT 4 THERMOSTAT 5 THERMOSTAT 6 THERMOSTAT 7 THERMOSTAT 8 UPPER LEVEL UTILITY ROOM WINE CELLAR WORKSHOP ZONE 1 ZONE 2 ZONE 3 ZONE 4 ZONE 5 ZONE 6 ZONE 7 ZONE 8 AHU 1 AHU 2 AHU3 AHU 4 AHU 5 AHU 6 AHU 7 AHU 8 BAR BASEMENT BATHROOM BATHROOM 1 BATHROOM 2 BATHROOM 3 BOAT HOUSE BOILER 1 BOILER 2 CHAPEL COMMON ROOM COMPUTER ROOM CONFERENCE RM CRAWL SPACE DINING ROOM DINING ROOM 1 DINING ROOM 2 DRESSING ROOM ENTRANCE EXERCISE ROOM FOYER GAME ROOM GARAGE GYM HALLWAY KITCHEN KITCHEN 1 KITCHEN 2 LAUNDRY ROOM LIBRARY LOBBY LOWER LEVEL MACHINE ROOM MAIN LEVEL MAIN OFFICE MEDIA ROOM MEETING ROOM MUSIC ROOM NURSERY OFFICE OFFICE 1 OFFICE 2 OFFICE 3 OFFICE 4 OFFICE 5 OFFICE 6 OFFICE 7 OFFICE 8 OPEN AREA 1 OPEN AREA 2 PLAY ROOM POOL ROOM REC ROOM SERVER 1 SERVER 2 SPA STOCK ROOM STORAGE ROOM STUDIO SUN ROOM THEATER etc. The device name may be selected by scrolling through the list of device names and when the desired device name is highlighted in the first area a next button may be pressed or selected to go to a next screen. Alternatively if it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed in selecting a device name a help button may be selected whereupon additional help information may be displayed to the user in the first area .

Once a device name has been selected the connection setting portion may ask a user to select whether the HVAC system is zoned in Setup as shown for example in . A user may scroll between YES and NO with the up arrow and or down arrow . The YES or NO option may be selected when the desired option is highlighted in the first area and a next button is pressed or selected to go to a next screen. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

If the HVAC system is not zoned the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to select whether the thermostat controls an equipment module in Setup as shown for example in . A user may scroll between YES and NO with the up arrow and or down arrow . The YES or NO option may be selected when the desired option is highlighted in the first area and a next button is pressed or selected to go to a next screen. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

If an equipment module system is not used the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to select whether to connect accessories to the thermostat as shown for example in . A user may select a YES button or a NO button in the second area .

If no accessories will be connected to the thermostat the thermostat setup portion may ask a user to press or select a NEXT button to begin installer setup as shown for example in . In some instances the interface display may display a message in the first area or any other area indicating PRESS NEXT TO BEGIN THE INSTALLER SETUP OR INSERT A MICROSD CARD NOW TO SETUP THE THERMOSTAT. Alternatively one or more other messages may be displayed. If a memory card is to be used for thermostat setup a user may insert a memory card e.g. a microSD card to setup the thermostat .

If accessories are to be connected to the thermostat the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to TURN ON 24 VAC POWER NOW THEN PRESS NEXT. 24 VAC IS REQUIRED TO CONNECT REDLINK ACCESSORIES as shown for example in . In some instances only two 2 lines of the message may be displayed in the first area as shown for example in and the down arrow and or the up arrow may be selected or pressed to scroll through the rest of the message. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected.

Once the power has been turned on and the next button has been selected or pressed an enroll mode may be entered and a screen may be displayed indicating the system is preparing to add a device as shown for example in . If it is decided that a device will not be added at this time a cancel button may be pressed or selected and the system will go to the thermostat setup portion . If it is desired to add a device once the systems has been prepared to add a device the interface display will be displayed asking a user to press connect a new accessories as shown for example in . Once connect and the new accessories has been pressed and the system has recognized a connection e.g. as evidenced by a connection signal on the accessory and or the thermostat or other device the done button may be pressed or selected to go to a wireless device manager. Once a user has interacted with the wireless device manager as desired to set up the accessory the interface display may advance to a thermostat setup portion .

If the connection between the thermostat and the accessory has failed a screen may be displayed on the interface display indicating the thermostat is UNABLE TO ADD DEVICES. ANOTHER PRODUCT IS IN THE PROCESS OF ADDING DEVICE. PLEASE TRY AGAIN LATER as shown for example in . Alternatively or in addition one or more other messages may be displayed indicating a connection has failed. In some instances only two 2 lines of the message may be displayed in the first area and the down arrow and or the up arrow may be selected or pressed to scroll through the rest of the message or the message may scroll automatically as could any other message that does not entirely fit within the two lines of the first area . Once the message has been displayed the interface display may return to the screen asking if accessories are to be connected as shown for example in . If it is desired to go back a screen the back button may be selected or pressed. Alternatively pressing or selecting the back button may bring a user to the screen asking if accessories are to be connected as shown for example in .

If an equipment module system is to be used the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to press or select a next button to begin connecting the thermostat to the equipment module as shown for example in . In some instances the interface display may display a message in the first area or any other area indicating PRESS CONNECT AT EQUIPMENT MODULE THEN PRESS NEXT. Alternatively one or more other messages may be displayed. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected. Once the next button has been selected to begin connecting the thermostat to the equipment module a screen may show that the thermostat is being connected to the equipment module as shown for example in .

If connecting the thermostat to the equipment module is unsuccessful a screen may display a message indicating that the connection failed as shown for example in . If the connection failed due to a weak signal the screen may show a message indicating CONNECTION FAILED. VERIFY THE CONNECT LED ON THE EQUIPMENT INTERFACE MODULE IS FLASHING AND YOU ARE AT LEAST 2 FEET AWAY. TRY CONNECTING AGAIN. If the connection failed due to an incompatible host the screen may show a message indicating CONNECTION FAILED. THE DEVICE YOU ARE ATTEMPTING CONNECT IS NOT COMPATIBLE WITH THIS DEVICE. PLEASE SEE INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPATIBLE DEVICES. If the connection failed due to an invalid instance the screen may show a message indicating CONNECTION FAILED. THE THERMOSTAT IS CURRENTLY SETUP TO AN EQUIPMENT INTERFACE MODULE BUT YOU ATTEMPTED TO CONNECT TO A TRUEZONE WIRELESS ADAPTER. PRESS AND RELEASE THE CONNECT BUTTON AT THE TRUEZONE WIRELESS ADAPTER TO TAKE IT OUT OF THE WIRELESS SETUP MODE. NEXT PRESS AND RELEASE THE CONNECT BUTTON AT THE EQUIPMENT INTERFACE MODULE AND VERIFY THE CONNECTED led FLASHES GREEN. THEN TRY CONNECTING THE THERMOSTAT AGAIN. If the connection failed due to a non virgin host the screen may show a message indicating CONNECTION FAILED. ALL DEVICES MUST BE REMOVED FROM THE EQUIPMENT INTERFACE BEFORE YOU TRY CONNECTING THE THERMOSTAT. TO REMOVE ALL DEVICE PRESS AND HOLD THE CONNECT BUTTON ON THE EQUIPMENT INTERFACE MODULE UNTIL THE STAT LIGHT GLOWS AMBER HOLD FOR ABOUT 10 SECONDS . AFTER ALL DEVICES ARE REMOVED THEN TRY CONNECTING THE THERMOSTAT TO THE EQUIPMENT INTERFACE MODULE. Alternatively or in addition one or more other messages may be displayed indicating a connection has failed. In some instances only two 2 lines of the message may be displayed in the first area and the down arrow and or the up arrow may be selected or pressed to scroll through the rest of the message. Once the message has been displayed the interface display may ask a user to press or select a next button to restart connecting the thermostat to the equipment module as shown for example in . If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected.

If the connection of the thermostat and the equipment module was successful a screen may show that the thermostat is connected to the equipment module as shown for example in . A user may then be prompted to press or select the next button to go to a screen asking a user to select whether accessories are to be connected to the thermostat as shown for example in . A user may select whether to connect accessories by selecting a YES button or a NO button . If the NO button is selected the thermostat setup portion may be entered. If the YES button is selected the user may be brought to an accessory connection screen as shown for example in .

If the HVAC system is a zoned system the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to select whether the thermostat controls an equipment module in Setup as shown for example in . A user may scroll between YES and NO with the up arrow and or down arrow . The YES or NO option may be selected when the desired option is highlighted in the first area and a next button is pressed or selected to go to a next screen. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

Once it has been indicated that the system is zoned and that the thermostat controls an equipment module system by selecting YES in the screen of the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to press or select a next button to begin connecting the thermostat to the equipment module as shown for example in and discussed with respect to .

In instances where the equipment interface module and a humidity sensor accessory or other accessory are to be used substantially all or all of the relays and inputs on the interface module may be used. In one example the thermostat standing alone e.g. as a host may only work with a three 3 heat two 2 cool heat pump system or a two 2 heat two 2 cool conventional system but when the thermostat is used with the equipment interface module e.g. a client the thermostat may control a four 4 heat two 2 cool heat pump or a three 3 heat two 2 cool conventional system. As such in some cases the functionality and or capability of the thermostat may increase once it is linked with an equipment interface module.

In another example if the thermostat is used as a standalone thermostat there may only be one 1 input terminal for an indoor sensor an outdoor sensor and or a discharge sensor. When the thermostat is connected with the equipment interface module the thermostat may service for four 4 input terminals which may be used with an indoor sensor an outdoor sensor a discharge sensor a return sensor a dry contact device for remote setback a dry contact device to display alerts and or one or more other accessories.

In another example if the thermostat is used as a standalone thermostat it may be able to control one of the humidification dehumidification or ventilation. When the thermostat is connected with the equipment interface module however the thermostat may be setup to control humidification dehumidification and or ventilation.

Once it has been indicated that the system is zoned and that the thermostat does not control an equipment interface module system by selecting NO in the screen of or after the accessory and or equipment interface module setups are complete the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to select whether the thermostat is wirelessly connected to a zone panel in Setup as shown in . A user may scroll between YES and NO with the up arrow and or down arrow . The YES or NO option may be selected when the desired option is highlighted in the first area and a next button is pressed or selected to go to a next screen. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

Once it is indicated that the thermostat is wirelessly connected to a zone panel the accessory enrollment portion may ask for a zone number to setup in Setup as shown for example in . In some instances the interface display may display a message in the first area or any other area indicating ZONE NUMBER followed by a list of numbers. In some cases the list of zone numbers may include 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 and or any other number of zones as desired. Alternatively one or more other messages may be displayed. Once the desired zone number is highlighted the next button may be selected or pressed to connect the thermostat as the selected zone to the wireless zone panel. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

Once the zone number for the thermostat has been selected interface display may show a message indicating PRESS CONNECT AT ZONE PANEL THEN PRESS NEXT as shown for example in . Alternatively or in addition any other message may be displayed. In some instances only two 2 lines of the message may be displayed in the first area and the down arrow and or the up arrow may be selected or pressed to scroll through the rest of the message. The next button may be selected to begin connecting the thermostat to the wireless zone panel. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

Once the next button has been select to connect the thermostat to the wireless zone panel the interface display may display a screen indicating that the thermostat is being connected to the wireless zone panel by displaying a message indicating CONNECTING THERMOSTAT in the first area or other area.

If the connection of the thermostat to the wireless zone panel is unsuccessful a screen may display a message indicating that the connection failed as shown for example in FIG. AA. If the connection failed due to no response or a weak signal the screen may show a message indicating CONNECTION FAILED. VERIFY THE CONNECT LED ON THE WIRELESS ZONE PANEL IS FLASHING AND YOU ARE AT LEAST 2 FEET AWAY. TRY CONNECTING AGAIN. If the connection failed due to an incompatible instance the screen may show a message indicating CONNECTION FAILED. THIS ZONE IS CURRENTLY SET TO WIRED AT THE ZONE PANEL. PLEASE SET THIS ZONE TO RF AND TRY AGAIN. If the connection failed due to an invalid instance the screen may show a message indicating CONNECTION FAILED FOR ONE OF TWO REASONS. THE ZONE NUMBER SET ON THE THERMOSTAT DOES NOT MATCH THE ZONE NUMBER ON THE TRUEZONE PANEL. PLEASE SET THE CORRECT ZONE NUMBER ON THE THERMOSTAT. THE OTHER REASON WHY THE THERMOSTAT MAY NOT HAVE CONNECTED IS BECAUSE THE THERMOSTAT IS CURRENTLY SETUP TO CONNECT TO A TRUEZONE WIRELESS ADAPTER BUT YOU ATTEMPTED TO CONNECT TO AN EQUIPMENT INTERFACE MODULE. PRESS AND RELEASE THE CONNECT BUTTON AT THE EQUIPMENT INTERFACE MODULE TO TAKE IT OUT OF THE WIRELESS SETUP MODE. NEXT PRESS AND RELEASE THE CONNECT BUTTON AT THE TRUEZONE WIRELESS ADAPTER AND VERIFY THE CONNECTED LED FLASHES GREEN. THEN TRY CONNECTING THE THERMOSTAT AGAIN. Alternatively or in addition one or more other messages may be displayed indicating a connection has failed. In some instances only two 2 lines of the message may be displayed in the first area and the down arrow and or the up arrow may be selected or pressed to scroll through the rest of the message. Once the message has been displayed the interface display may ask a user to select a zone number and press or select a next button to restart connecting the thermostat to the wireless zone panel as shown for example in . If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected or pressed. Alternatively pressing or selecting the back button may bring the interface display to the zone number selection screen depicted in .

If the connection of the thermostat to the wireless zone panel was successful a screen may show that the thermostat is connected to the wireless zone panel as shown for example in . A user may then be prompted to press or select the next button to go the thermostat set up portion having an initial screen as shown for example in . A user may select whether to connect accessories by selecting a YES button or a NO button . If the NO button is selected the thermostat setup portion may be entered. If the YES button is selected the user may be brought to an accessory connection screen as shown for example in .

If it is indicated that the system is zoned and that the thermostat does not control an equipment module system by selecting NO in the screen of or after the accessory and or equipment interface module setup is complete and that the thermostat is not to be connected to a wireless zone panel by selecting NO in the screen of the accessory enrollment portion may ask a user to select whether the thermostat is wired to a zone panel in Setup as shown in . A user may scroll between YES and NO with the up arrow and or down arrow . The YES or NO option may be selected when the desired option is highlighted in the first area and a next button is pressed or selected to go to a next screen. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

If the thermostat is wired to a zone panel the accessory enrollment portion may ask whether accessories are to be connected to the thermostat as shown for example in and described with respect to . If the thermostat is not to be wired to a zone panel the system may return to the screen shown for example in asking whether the system is zoned.

Installer setup may be accessed upon initial setup as discussed above and or installer setup may be access through the menu screen as depicted in which may be advanced to by selecting or pressing the menu button in the home screen as shown for example in . The menu list in the menu screen may be scrolled through by pressing or selecting the up arrow and or the down arrow until an INSTALLER OPTIONS item is highlighted among other menu list items including but not limited to EDIT SCHEDULE VIEW SCHEDULE VACATION MODE HOLIDAY SCHEDULE HOLIDAY MODE EQUIPMENT STATUS DATE TIME PREFERENCES CLEAN SCREEN SECURITY SETTINGS DEALER INFORMATION INSTALLER OPTIONS. Once INSTALLER OPTIONS is highlighted the select button may be pressed or selected and or the first area may be pressed to go to installer options.

Once INSTALLER OPTIONS has been selected the interface display may prompt a user to enter a password or passcode in a password screen as shown for example in . In one example a four digit number may be used where each digit may be any number from 0 9. Each digit may be scrolled between by pressing or selecting the left arrow and or the right arrow . Each number may be chosen by scrolling through the numbers 0 9 with the up arrow and or the down arrow . Once the password or passcode is entered the done button may be pressed or selected to move onto the next screen. If it is desired to exit from installer options a cancel button may be selected.

After correctly entering a password or passcode the interface display may display a list of installer set up items in the first area in an installer menu screen as shown for example in . The installer setup items list may include but are not limited to INSTALLER SETUP INSTALLER TEST DATA LOSS WIRELESS MANAGER RESET TO DEFAULTS DEVICE INFO etc. The list of installer setup items may be scrolled through with the up arrow and or the down arrow and a highlighted item may be selected by pressing the select button or tapping the first area . If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected or pressed. If help is needed the help button may be selected or pressed.

In some instances one or more e.g. two or more three or more each of the installer setup items may be displayed in the first area with a name that describes the feature being set and or value of an effective setting of the particular item. Once an INSTALLER SETUP item is selected each item or step of the installer setup may have a setup number displayed in a set up number area in the second area of the interface display as shown for example in which may provide a unique identifier of each installer setup item or step.

In some cases an installer setup item name and value may be display in the first area of the interface display . For example the installer setup item name may be displayed on a first line of text in the first area and the installer setup item value may be displayed on a second line of text in the first area .

The processor or controller of the thermostat may be configured to animate the installer setup item name and or value when these features are optionally simultaneously displayed in the first area of the interface display in a vertical horizontal and or any other direction. In one example of displaying installer setup items when the installer setup item name is switched between a displayed first installer setup item and a second installer setup item which may or may not be simultaneously displayed with the first installer setup item the processor or controller may be configured to animate the installer setup items in a horizontal direction or a vertical direction to display the second installer setup item name. In another example when switching between a displayed first predefined installer setup item value and a second predefined installer setup item value which may or may not be simultaneously displayed with the first predefined installer setup item value the processor or controller may be configured to animate the predefined installer setup item values in a vertical and or horizontal direction to display the second predefined installer setup item value. Illustratively switching installer setup item names and or values e.g. predefined installer setup item values in an animated manner may be effected through touching and or swiping an active touch area associated with the installer setup items in the first area of the interface display touching a button offset from the interface display e.g. a hard button and or touching an active touch area of one or more buttons e.g. predefined buttons such as arrows or other buttons in the second area of the interface display .

The animation of the installer setup items may be utilized to dynamically adjust which installer setup items from a plurality of predefined installer setup items are displayed e.g. displayed in a sequential manner . Illustratively dynamic adjustment of installer setup item names and or values may include adjusting the displayed installer setup item names and or values for an installer setup item based on one or more installer setup item values selected for a previous setup item.

In an illustrative method of setting up an HVAC controller two or more installer setup items may be sequentially displayed on the interface display e.g. in the first area of the interface display . In some cases each of the sequentially displayed installer setup items may include an installer setup item name and value that may be displayed in the first area of the interface display . Further the method may include accepting a selection of a predefined fixed segment icon of a first button in the second area of the interface display . Selection of the predefined fixed segment icon in the second area may include touching the first button therein which may cause the processor or controller of the thermostat to display a predefined installer setup item name and or value that was not previously displayed in the first region of the interface display . Illustratively with each selection of a button in the second area of the interface display and the display of the installer setup item name and or value in the first area a setup item number that is associated with the displayed installer setup item name and or value may be displayed in the second area of the interface display . Additionally or alternatively the method may include dynamically adjusting which installer setup items from a plurality of predefined installer setup items are sequentially display where the dynamically adjusting of the displayed predefined installer setup items may be in response to and may depend upon a previously selected installer setup item or other selection of any other option.

As discussed herein the installer setup may be dynamically adjusted to fit the system capabilities in view of previous settings and may allow for a reduced number of setup items shown to a user because only those settings that are relevant are displayed based on previous selections. For example if a previous selection indicates that no humidification system is present settings related to a humidification are not displayed. As discussed throughout this disclosure the up arrow and or the down arrow in the second area to the side of the first area may be used to adjust values and navigating between setup items may be facilitated by using the back button and or the next button .

Once the installer setup of the thermostat setup portion has been entered and a screen as shown for example in is depicted on the interface display displaying the message PRESS NEXT TO BEGIN THE INSTALLER SETUP OR INSERT A MICROSD CARD NOW TO SETUP THE THERMOSTAT. Alternatively or in addition one or more other messages may be displayed. If a memory card is to be used for thermostat setup a user may insert a memory card e.g. a microSD card to setup the thermostat wherein the thermostat setting may be downloaded from the memory card rather than entered selected manually by the user.

Once installer set up has begun the thermostat setup portion may ask a user to select the thermostat type for thermostat in Setup as shown in . One or more thermostat types may be in a list through which a user may scroll with the up arrow and or down arrow . The list may include among other options PROGRAMMABLE and NON PROGRAMMABLE. The thermostat type may be selected by scrolling through the list of thermostat types and when the desired thermostat type is highlighted in the first area a next button may be pressed or selected to go to a next screen. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

Once a thermostat type has been selected the thermostat setup portion may ask a user to select the temperature scale for thermostat in Setup as shown in . One or more temperature scales may be in a list through which a user may scroll with the up arrow and or down arrow . The list may include among other options FAHRENHEIT CELSIUS etc. The temperature scale type may be selected by scrolling through the list of temperature scales and when the desired thermostat type is highlighted in the first area a next button may be pressed or selected to go to a next screen. If it is desired to go to a previous screen the back button may be selected. If help is needed a help button may be selected.

Installer setup and the interface display may be used to set up one or more sensors internal to the thermostat and or one or more remote indoor temperature sensors for temperature control as shown for example in depicting Setup . In some instances the first area of the interface display may display YES NO questions that may allow a user to setup the thermostat to sense a temperature only at the thermostat for temperature control sense at one of one or more remote indoor sensors e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 etc. for temperature control where any connected indoor temperature sensor may be selected or average any or all of the temperature sensors e.g. the temperature sensor s internal to the thermostat and or the remote indoor temperature sensors for temperature control. When multiple remote indoor sensors are connected to the thermostat the first area of the interface display may display the name provided to each of the remote indoor sensors.

As shown for example in when setting up the temperature sensor for temperature control the first area of the interface display may display USE T STAT SENSOR TEMP CONTROL and allow a user to select YES or NO. If NO is selected the first area of the interface display may display USE INDOOR SENSOR or other sensor name FOR TEMP CTRL and allow a user to select YES or NO as shown for example in . The thermostat may continue to display messages in the first area of the interface display inquiring which temperature sensor s to use for temperature control. Once a temperature sensor has been selected for temperature control the first area of the interface display may display USE INDOOR SENSOR or other sensor name IN TEMP AVG and allow a user to select YES or NO as shown for example in . If yes is selected the temperature sensor may be used by the thermostat in averaging temperatures from one or more temperatures sensors for temperature control. If NO is selected the measurements from the temperature sensor will not be used in the temperature average utilized by the thermostat for temperature control. If NO is selected for all of the temperature sensors the thermostat may remove the next button and or the done button from the second area of the interface display at the last question which may force a user to go back and select a temperature sensor for temperature control by the thermostat . Alternatively the thermostat may automatically select a temperature sensor to use for temperature control if one is not chosen e.g. the temperature sensor internal to the thermostat . Similar selection of temperature sensors connected to the thermostat may be utilized by thermostat for humidification control dehumidification control and or controlling of other features. Allowing for the optional selection of temperature sensors connected to the thermostat for controlling different system may allow a user to determine which sensor will be used to control which systems or features of an HVAC system.

When it is desired to exit the installer setup of the thermostat setup portion the done button depicted in some or all of the screens of the installer setup may be selected or pressed. After selecting the done button a screen may display a message asking DO YOU WANT TO EXIST INSTALLER SETUP as shown for example in . In response to this question a YES button or a NO button may be selected. If the NO button is selected the last presented screen of the installer setup may be displayed on the interface display .

If the YES button is selected in the first area an animated screen displaying a SAVING CHANGES message with an animation e.g. a bar or other feature s sliding from left to right right to left and or any other animation indicating the thermostat is actively saving the changes as shown for example in . Alternatively or in addition a different message may be displayed in the first area if at all and or a different animation may be utilized if at all. Once the changes to the installer setup of thermostat have been saved a home screen as depicted in may be displayed on the interface display . In some instances the saving changes functionality of the thermostat may apply to features of thermostat that involve making changes to the thermostat other than features related to the installer setup.

In some cases the thermostat may include an edit schedule mode that may be entered to allow a user to set edit and or modify an HVAC system schedule. The edit schedule mode may be accessed from the menu screen as shown for example in . Once the EDIT SCHEDULE item is highlight in the menu list on the menu screen the select button is pressed to enter the edit schedule mode. As shown for example in the first area of the interface display may display a message asking USE SCHEDULING ASSISTANT or display any other message. If the scheduling assistant will not be used a user may select the NO button and enter an HVAC system schedule without the scheduling assistant.

If the YES button is pressed or selected the user will use the scheduling assistant to set the HVAC system schedule. As shown for example in the first area of the interface display may display a message of SELECT DAYS WITH SAME SCHEDULE. A user may then select which days will have the same schedule by pressing or selecting day buttons . Once one or more days have been selected the first area of the interface display displays a message of PRESS NEXT AFTER SELECTING DAYS as shown for example in . Once the days having the same schedule have been selected the next button may pressed or selected to go to the next screen. After selecting the next button the first area of the interface display may display a message asking IS SOMEONE HOME ALL DAY as shown for example in . If someone is expected to home all day the YES button is selected and the scheduling assistant will skip the LEAVE and RETURN time periods. If someone will not be home all day the user will select the NO button .

After indicating if someone will be home all day the scheduling assistant will ask the user to set a beginning time for each time period of the HVAC system schedule. In the first area of the interface display a message asking WHEN DOES THE FIRST PERSON WAKE UP may be displayed as shown for example in . After a time is set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message asking WHEN DOES THE LAST PERSON LEAVE may be displayed as shown for example in . After a time is set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message asking WHEN DOES THE FIRST PERSON RETURN may be displayed as shown for example in . After a time is set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message asking WHEN DOES THE LAST PERSON GO TO SLEEP may be displayed as shown for example in . After a time is set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message indicating SET YOUR WAKE TEMPERATURE may be displayed as shown for example in . After a heat temperature and or a cool temperature have been set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message indicating SET YOUR LEAVE TEMPERATURE may be displayed as shown for example in . After a heat temperature and or a cool temperature have been set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message indicating SET YOUR RETURN TEMPERATURE may be displayed as shown for example in . After a heat temperature and or a cool temperature have been set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message indicating SET YOUR SLEEP TEMPERATURE may be displayed as shown for example in . After a heat temperature and or a cool temperature have been set the next button may be pressed or selected to go onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message asking SCHEDULE YOUR FAN TOO may be displayed as shown for example in . If fan schedule will not be set at this time the user selects the NO button to go to a screen asking SCHEDULE MORE DAYS in the first area of the interface display as shown for example in . If more days are to be scheduled the user selects the YES button and the above steps will be repeated for the other days. If no more days are to be scheduled the user selects the NO button to go to the next screen. The next screen asks REVIEW SCHEDULE in the first area of the interface display as shown for example in . If the schedule is not to be reviewed the user selects the NO button and the thermostat will display saving changes as shown in . If the schedule is to be reviewed the user selects the YES button to review the schedule and go to a review schedule screen on the interface display as shown in .

If the fan schedule will be set at this time the user selects the YES button to go to the next screen. In the first area of the interface display a message indicating WAKE FAN SETTING with a list of fan settings may be displayed as shown for example in . The list of fan settings may include AUTO ON CIRC and or other fan settings. A fan setting may be selected by highlighting a desired setting in the list of fan settings and then selecting the next button to move onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message indicating LEAVE FAN SETTING with a list of fan settings may be displayed as shown in for example in . The list of fan settings may include AUTO ON CIRC and or other fan settings. A fan setting may be selected by highlighting a desired setting in the list of fan settings and then selecting the next button to move onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message indicating RETURN FAN SETTING with a list of fan settings may be displayed as shown in for example in . The list of fan settings may include AUTO ON CIRC and or other fan settings. A fan setting may be selected by highlighting a desired setting in the list of fan settings and then selecting the next button to move onto the next screen.

In the first area of the interface display a message indicating SLEEP FAN SETTING with a list of fan settings may be displayed as shown in for example in . The list of fan settings may include AUTO ON CIRC and or other fan settings. A fan setting may be selected by highlighting a desired setting in the list of fan settings and then selecting the next button to move onto the next screen.

Once the next button has been selected or pressed after the fan setting has been selected for the last time period e.g. the RETURN time period a screen asking SCHEDULE MORE DAYS in the first area of the interface display may be displayed as shown for example in . If more days are to be scheduled the user selects the YES button and the above steps will be repeated for the other days. If no more days are to be scheduled the user selects the NO button to go to the next screen. The next screen may ask REVIEW SCHEDULE in the first area of the interface display as shown for example in . If the schedule is not to be reviewed the user selects the NO button and the thermostat will display saving changes as shown in . If the schedule is to be reviewed the user selects the YES button to review the schedule and go to a review schedule screen on the interface display as shown in . Any time the edit schedule mode is exited changes to the HVAC system schedule will be implemented.

As noted above the thermostat may include a view schedule mode that may be entered to allow a user to view and or verify their HVAC system schedule. The view schedule mode may be accessed from the menu screen as shown for example in or viewed after a schedule is setup. The view schedule mode may be offered regardless of whether the HVAC schedule is setup with use of a scheduling assistant setup manually by a user or downloaded from a memory card. From the home screen the view schedule mode may be selected by selecting the menu button and entering the menu screen . A view schedule mode may be selected by scrolling through the menu list displayed in the first area of the interface display of the menu screen until VIEW SCHEDULE is highlighted and then pressing or selecting the select button or tapping within the first area .

A view schedule screen as shown for example in may display several buttons in the second area of the interface display and may display several pieces of information in the second area and the first area of the interface display . For example the view schedule screen may include one or more of a wake button a leave button return button a sleep button and or a done button in the second area adjacent the first area of the interface display. The wake button the leave button the return button and the sleep button when pressed may allow a user to view the HVAC system schedule for the time period of the schedule associated with the button e.g. the wake time period the leave time period the return time period and or the sleep time period . In some cases while in the view schedule mode the first area may display the time period of the schedule the fan setting for the time period and or other information and the second area may display the time a time period begins a heat setting a cool setting and or other information.

When the thermostat is in a view schedule mode the interface display of the thermostat may automatically group the days that have the same schedule by showing a check mark or other marking in or about the day buttons e.g. Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun displayed in the second area of the interface display as shown for example in . In one example if Monday Tuesday and Wednesday have the same HVAC system schedule Thursday and Friday have the same HVAC system schedule and Saturday and Sunday have the same HVAC schedule the interface display will show check marks or other markings in the day buttons for Monday Mon Tuesday Tue and Wednesday Wed indicating these days have the same HVAC system schedule as shown for example in . If a user presses on either of the day buttons for Thursday Thu or Friday Fri the second area of the interface display will show check marks or other markings in the day buttons for both Thursday Thu and Friday Fri indicating these days have the same HVAC system schedule as shown for example in . If a user presses on either of the day buttons for Saturday Sat or Sunday Sun the second area of the interface display will show check marks or other markings in the day buttons for both Saturday Sat and Sunday Sun indicating these days have the same HVAC system schedule as shown for example in .

While verifying a schedule if a user would like to make a change the user may interact with the first area of the interface display a heat temperature a cool temperature or other feature displayed on the interface display to view and or interact with a change schedule screen as shown in for example . From the change schedule screen the day buttons may be selected to add and or delete a day from a schedule e.g. see change temperature settings for heating and or cooling by selecting or pressing the temperature setting arrows change a time associated with a Wake setting by selecting or pressing time setting arrows change a time associated with a Leave setting by selecting or pressing time setting arrows change a time associated with a Return setting by selecting or pressing time setting arrows change a time associated with a Sleep setting by selecting or pressing time setting arrows modify a fan setting by selecting or pressing a fan setting button and or cancel time period for the schedule by selecting or pressing the cancel period button . In some instances the first area of the interface display may indicate which setting is being modified. For example the first area of the interface display in the change schedule screen may display which time period settings are being changed e.g. SET WAKE TIME TEMPERATURE as shown for example in . When the HVAC system settings have been modified selecting the done button may save the modifications and return the thermostat to a view schedule mode and interface display may display the view schedule mode screen . Alternatively the thermostat may display a different screen on the interface display after selecting the done button such as the home screen or other screen.

The weather mode of the thermostat may display weather related information about today s forecast todays actual weather readings e.g. temperature humidity dew point wind chill wind direction wind speed weather warnings weather watches etc. today s forecast description forecasts for future time periods and or forecast descriptions for future time periods. Illustratively forecast descriptions may include but are not limited to SUNNY MOSTLY SUNNY PARTLY SUNNY PARTLY CLOUDY HAZY SUNSHINE MOSTLY CLOUDY CLOUDY DREARY FOGGY SHOWERS THUNDERSTORMS THUNDER SHOWERS RAIN FLURRIES SNOW ICE SLEET FREEZING RAIN RAIN AND SNOW HOT COLD AND OR WINDY.

As shown in screen depicts a home screen as described herein. From the home screen a menu button may be selected to move to screen . In screen a list of menu options may be displayed in the first area . The list of menu options may be scrolled through by swiping within the first area and or by selecting the up arrow and or the down arrow . A user may scroll until the menu option WEATHER is highlighted. By touching either the highlighted menu option or by touching the select button today s weather and or weather forecast may be displayed in the first area of the interface display in screen as shown in . To view further forecast and or weather information for today a user may select the up arrow and or down arrow and view the complete forecast in the first area as shown in screens and which depict current weather readings. In some instances a weather icon may be displayed in the second area which when touched may cause the weather information to be displayed in the first area .

In some instances weather forecasts and forecast descriptions for future days or time periods may be shown. The number of future days or time period for which forecasts may be viewed may be any number for example the thermostat may be able to display weather forecasts for up to one day two days three days four days five days six days seven days and so on. To view weather forecasts for future days the next button may be selected in any one of screens and or . If a user selects the next button from one or more of screens and a user is brought to screen depicting the weather forecast for tomorrow as shown in . When a user gets to a screen depicting the last day for which a weather forecast is available such as in screens the next button may be removed from the interface display and or may not be an active touch area. To view a previous day s forecast a user may touch the back button . When a user is finished viewing the weather and weather forecast information in the weather mode the user may select the done button to return to the menu in screen or return to the home screen in screen .

Screens buttons and or other features of the interface display that are not particularly described but appear to be similar to screens buttons and or other features of the interface display that are particularly described are to be interpreted in the same manner as the similarly appearing screens buttons and or other features particularly described with respect to the interface display . Additionally if a feature is shown in one screen but not another screen such omitting of the feature does not mean it cannot or is not included in another screen. The highlighted e.g. grayed buttons depicted in the illustrative screens are pressed or selected to move onto a next screen e.g. a next screen may moving forward in the flow moving backward in the flow or jumping out of order in the flow . If more than one button is highlighted in a single screen of the interface display the flow diagram is depicting which screen of the interface display is next for each button selection.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present disclosure may be manifested in a variety of forms other than the examples described herein. Accordingly departure in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure and as described in the appended claims.

