---

title: Signal strength management
abstract: Methods and systems for signal strength management are provided. A first (mobile) communication device may provide a server with information relating to the signal strength, and such information may be used to determine future signal strength (e.g., at a different location). The first user may see the signal strength of a second communication device with which it may be communicating. The communication device may also communicate with a system that maintains a real-time database of signal strengths throughout an area, such as a state. A user's handheld device may receive a indications, warnings, and recommended courses of action that the user may take to maintain communications when a signal strength of a wireless communication network is predicted to change. Users of the present invention may take actions to insure that the quality of their call is maintained.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420477&OS=09420477&RS=09420477
owner: GRANDIOS TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
number: 09420477
owner_city: Charleston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150213
---
The present application claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 62 007 761 filed Jun. 4 2014 and entitled Single Strength Management the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of wireless communication regarding cellular signal strength of handheld devices.

It is well known that wireless communication devices e.g. handheld devices or mobile devices rely on wireless signals of a minimum strength in order to effectively communicate with the cellular network. Signal strength received at a handheld device may be variable and impact phone conversations when it dips below a minimum threshold resulting in either dropped calls or inaudibility of the call. However while the user of a handheld device knows the signal strength of their own phone the user may not know the signal strength of their conversation partner. Signal strength is not currently integrated with iOS and solutions for fixing weak signal strength do not currently exist. This means that if a caller loses signal he must accept that he has to end the call regardless of his desire or the call s importance. Moreover signal strength management systems are not currently available. Presently callers can see their own signal strength and they may access historical maps of carrier coverage to obtain a rough idea of where there is good signal and where there are dead spots. In addition boosters can also be used to increase signal strength in certain areas. Another option for low signal strength areas is to call using voice over IP on a Wi Fi connection.

In addition cell strength can change by time of day and by weather and also can change due to telecommunications assets in repair. The user constantly experiences the cellular reception strength in real time but that is not communicated to anyone else for use. This is rich data that can be useful by many systems and entities not the least the telecommunications systems itself.

There is therefore a need in the art for improved systems and methods for signal strength management.

Embodiments of the present invention include a method and system for measuring cellular signal strength data and using it to alert handheld device users when they may lose adequate signal strength during operation. The method and system may also provide users with various options or selections to prevent interrupting an operation such as dropping their phone call.

Methods of signal strength management may include receiving a measure of signal strength from a first of electronic communication device wherein the measure of signal strength is the current measured signal strength received by the first electronic communication device. Methods may further include determining the current location of the first electronic communication device determining a velocity of the first electronic communication device determining a path of travel along which the first electronic communication device is traveling when the velocity of the electronic communication device is greater than zero accessing a database wherein the database stores the signal strength at a plurality of different locations forecasting that the signal strength received by the first electronic communication device will likely reduce in the future wherein the reduced signal strength is forecasted using the current location the velocity the path of travel and the database and transmitting the reduced signal strength forecast to the first electronic communication device.

Exemplary suggestions that may be provided to a user of a handheld device may include yet are not limited to recommending that the user complete the call before a measure of time corresponding to the time of the forecasted future reduction of signal strength a change in the path of travel that is predicted to maintain a signal strength that is greater than the forecasted signal strength switching a call from a cellular network to a Wi Fi network. Users of a handheld device may select any particular action corresponding to the aforementioned suggestions or to other suggestions that may be provided to the user.

In certain circumstances a handheld device consistent with the invention may perform a method using the following steps Initiating a call on a first electronic communication device wherein the call is to a second electronic communication device and transmitting an indication of signal strength to the second electronic communication device wherein the indication of signal strength transmitted corresponds to a currently measured signal strength received by the first electronic communication device.

Apparatuses and non transitory computer readable storage media for signal strength management may also be included in embodiments of the present invention. Such apparatuses and computer readable storage media may involve implementing methods for signal strength management as described herein.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for methods and systems of signal strength management. A measure of signal strength may be received from a first of electronic communication device indicating the current measured signal strength received by the first electronic communication device. The current location velocity and path of travel of the first electronic communication device may be determined. A database may be accessed to determine what signal strength may be associated with a plurality of different locations. A forecast may be made that the signal strength received by the first electronic communication device will likely reduce in the future based on the determined location velocity path of travel and the database. The forecast may be transmitted to the first electronic communication device.

Road e.g. driving paths train subway tracks walkways may be any type of travel path along which users may travel. Typically individuals have access to and are capable of using a cellular device while within the boundaries of the road. An example of such a road is Interstate 89 I 89 in the state of Vermont U.S.A.

Signal regions A C may be any area through which vehicles and cellular users pass or reside. This area may encompasses a portion of road and territory substantially adjacent to the road the size and limitations of which may be defined and determined according to methods known in the art. Signal region A may include a set of discrete users that access cellular services through wireless signals of a certain average strength. Signal region A may also contain other devices able to access the internet via wireless Wi Fi signals wired connections and wireless access to adjacent signal regions. As illustrated signal region A may be a segment of I 89 and adjacent territory between White River Junction and Royalton Vt. signal region B may be another segment of I 89 adjacent territory between Royalton and Brookfield Vt. and signal region C may be yet another segment of I 89 and adjacent territory between Brookfield and Montpelier Vt. Further segments and adjacent territory may be further defined e.g. signal region .

Signal strength A n as respectively determined in signal regions A n may be a measurement of the strength of cellular service which may be represented as a number of bars from 1 to 5 on a communication device. Stronger signal strength allows for better reception faster cellular data transfer and increased phone call clarity e.g. 4 bars vis vis 1 bar .

Cellular users A n in respective signal regions A n may be cellular users resident or otherwise located within signal region A who report signal strength A to a central database e.g. at cellular signal strength system . either directly or by directing their mobile devices to automatically report the signal strength A.

Signal strength user may be a cellular user who is travelling along road through state and is travelling through multiple signal regions during use of a communication device. As the user is travelling signal strength may change and as such it may be useful to learn how such signal strength will change as well as recommendations for maintaining a minimum signal strength during the call.

Cellular signal strength system may include a database that holds signal strength information and associated data collected from multiple communication devices A n throughout the signal regions A n. Such a database may be an array of disk drives other electronic memory devices a set of devices or other memory devices commonly known in the art.

Cloud communication network may be any global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard internet protocol suite TCP IP to serve several billion users worldwide. It may be a network of networks that consists of millions of private public academic business and government networks from local to global scope that are linked by a broad array of electronic wireless and optical networking technologies and may be for example the Internet.

Cellular data links may be any open channel used to transmit data to cloud communication network . Their purpose is to transmit signal strength data A from cellular users A to cloud communication network and may be for example wireless Wi Fi signals wired connections and other data links such as are commonly known in the art. Cloud data link may be one or more data links between cloud communication network and cellular strength database through which data is transmitted. Such cloud data links may include a data trunk a fiber optic line or any data link that is commonly known in the art.

3rd party users may include any individual or entity that may be allowed access to the data in cellular strength system . Such 3rd party may be a telecommunications system company an application developer device manufacturers etc. that may find information regarding signal strength useful.

Data link may include one or more data links between cloud communication network and 3rd party users through which data is transmitted. Such data links may include a data trunk a fiber optic line or any type of data link known in the art.

As illustrated regions A n may be located contiguously along road upon which user is travelling. In each region the mobile devices within may detect the signal strength of their respective regions e.g. signal strengths A and transmit that information to cloud communication network via cellular data links . Cloud communication network in turn transmits the signal strength data to cellular signal strength system via cloud data link . Cellular signal strength system may then after analysis transmit data via cloud data link through cloud communication network and cellular data link to user . As such the user may be apprised of the signal strength of a region into which they are about to enter. In some instances 3rd party users may be allowed access to the data in cellular strength system through the data link to the cloud communication network . In this way 3rd party users can use data from cellular strength system to improve various hardware software and other related products and services.

The device in shows the current signal strength in a bars signal indicator . Bars indicator indicates that the current measured signal strength level is 3 bars out of 5. Wi Fi service indicator shown in handheld device is an indicator icon on handheld device . This indicator shows that the strength of a Wi Fi currently received is four out of four arcs. Typically the Wi Fi service indicator will show zero arcs when the Wi Fi on handheld device is turned off or when there is no Wi Fi signal in the vicinity of the handheld device .

User interface further displays a plurality of software applications . Software applications may come pre installed on the handheld device or may be purchased and installed thereon. Software applications may include applications relating to text messaging camera applications clock applications games and geo location applications.

Settings is an icon that allows a user to access and change the configuration of various functions or setting in the device . When a user selects this button another user interface appears. In certain instances some settings may be at least partially incorporated into the operating system of device . In other instances some settings may further relate to software applications that may be installed on device .

When a plurality of 3rd party users e.g. 3rd party in have signal strength settings installed on their devices those users can manage the quality of their communications in ways that help them to avoid interruptions in their communications.

User interface enables the user to toggle data options on and off including iOS settings cellular settings cellular data signal strength sharing auto signal strength use and use cellular data with 252 options regarding such software applications as FaceTime and Siri .

For iPhones iOS settings in may include settings that control basic functionality of the iOs operating system environment. Typically iOS settings allow a user to modify settings that relate to the display sound and connectivity of the device . iOS settings may also allow the user to manage the software applications that are installed on handheld device .

When a user selects cellular settings a submenu not depicted will typically be displayed on the handheld device . In certain instances cellular settings include iPhone settings cellular data settings data connectivity settings or other settings that relate to controlling cellular data commonly known in the art.

Cellular data signal strength sharing auto signal strength use and use cellular data with 252 are various features that may be enabled or disabled by a user of the handheld device using toggle switches . When cellular data is enabled the phone will receive internet connectivity through the cellular data network when disabled the phone will only be able to access the internet over a Wi Fi connection. This is a way that a user can turn off cellular data while using email or while web browsing.

Signal strength sharing may be enabled within cellular settings thereby allowing users to share their current signal strength with each other. Each handheld device supporting this function may display their current measured signal strength as well as the signal strength of another handheld device with which they are communicating.

Auto signal strength may be enabled within cellular settings thereby allowing signal strength measures to be used by other systems or applications within the device . This setting will automatically share the current signal strength with applications that wish to have access to that data. Auto signal strength may allow applications as mapping applications and or the operating system itself to use the data collected about the current signal strength of the device .

Cellular data selector may be enabled within cellular settings thereby allowing users to select which applications that are allowed to use cellular data. Users also may typically be able to select which software applications they wish to allow or exclude from using cellular data. In certain embodiments cellular data selector may include a list of applications that may be selected with a check box or switch in the user interface .

User may be the operator of handheld device in communication with another user who may either be the caller or the recipient of the call . The soft selectable call options buttons allow the user to mute the phone open a keypad change speaker volume add a call open FaceTime or open a list of contacts. In certain instances soft selectable call options buttons may be displayed on a touch screen of a smartphone. Call timer is a timer that records the current length of the phone call and the duration at the end of the call. The device of the other user may send its current signal strength to device which displays such information as Theirs indicator.

Signal strength notification may be any type of notification or message regarding signal strength. Typically receiver user signal analysis may include indications that the other user s signal strength is poor fair or good e.g. based on the number of signal strength bars associated with the other user s phone . As illustrated signal strength notification indicates a poor signal .

Typically suggest button in system may be a soft selection button that user may select when he sees a signal notification message . After selection a list of options or suggestions may be displayed. Suggestions or recommendations displayed in a user interface menu may include ending the current call e.g. Stop taking an alternate route e.g. Travel telling the other user to call back later e.g. Recall or switching the call from cellular data to voice over IP using Wi Fi e.g. Switch .

Stop call function is a soft selection button that user may select to end a current call before it is dropped. When this function is selected an automatic signal may be sent to the receiver user s phone indicating that user will hang up in less than 1 minute. Conversely when the current signal strength is poor but predicted to improve this function may provide for an automatic signal to one or more other users on the call to hold as signal strength should improve shortly e.g. within 1 minute or so .

Reroute function is a user interface menu soft selection button that user may press to instruct his phone to map out an alternate route for him. Typically the alternate route may be forecasted to maintain good signal quality. This option may use a GPS application and or an assisted GPS application that has the ability to provide geo location information e.g. directions . When this function is selected the user may be presented with a route change when one is available. For example there may be a number of routes toward a destination each of which may be associated with a signal strength. One of those routes e.g. having a good signal strength may be suggested as an alternative route that may provide better signal strength than is currently detected along the present route.

Recall function is a soft selection button that user may select. In certain instances this will send a message to his conversation partner telling them to call back in a designated amount of time when the signal strength is forecasted to improve. This may be determined by using the velocity of the handheld device and by reviewing the signal strength in upcoming signal regions. This function may be enabled when the user enables the enable auto signal strength use e.g. settings of . In certain instances the system will alert the user and the other user when the call is available for a redial.

Switch function is a soft selection button that user may press to switch their phone call from cellular data to voice over IP using a Wi Fi network when a Wi Fi network of sufficient signal strength and bandwidth are available. This option will typically require a Wi Fi signal and a third party application enabled to make the voice over IP call. In certain instances the call may be forwarded from a cell network to Skype over the Wi Fi network. In other instances the system may automatically engage an application like FaceTime when forwarding the call.

Real time users database is a database that stores data of each user. Such data may include each user s real time location signal strength and Wi Fi strength. The module may also perform calculations regarding velocity and other calculations related to location time and signal strength. Real time users database may also store user identifications and settings that may relate to a handheld device s operating system settings as shown in of .

Algorithm represents one or more algorithms for calculating velocity speed based upon multiple location points and the time it took for the user s handheld device to travel between each location point to the next. Such information and results of such calculations may be sent to the real time users database for storage. Furthermore algorithm may take data from the real time users database and update the world map most recent data . This allows the cellular signal strength system module to obtain snapshots regarding signal strength at different time periods at different locations. The algorithm may also calculate average signal strength at various particular locations using a subset of users at an instance of time. In this way a world map of signal strength at a particular time may be assembled and stored in the real time user database . Furthermore world map of most recent data may store the data from algorithms at various points in time.

Users API may be any application programming interface for communicating data between user devices and the cellular signal strength system module e.g. provide updated data to real time users database . In some instances the users API may further allow for the backup and or up downloading of cellular settings e.g. cellular settings of .

3rd party GUI or API may be any type of graphic user interface or application programming interface that allows data to be communication between 3rd party user devices and cellular signal strength system module . The 3rd party GUI or API may also allow the backup and up downloading of users settings e.g. cellular settings of . This would allow the cellular signal strength system module to collect data related to 3rd party users for research and or to support 3rd party applications.

Connections A C represent links between the cellular signal strength system module e.g. via cloud communication network of and handheld users as well as 3rd party users . Such connections may be a data trunk fiber optic line or any data link known in the art.

In operation cellular signal strength system module communicates with handheld users as well as with 3rd party users to collect signal strength data at different times and in different locations. In certain instances the cellular signal strength system module may periodically poll a user s handheld device for data relating to signal strength and location. Algorithm may be used to calculate velocity travel path and other metrics for each user device which may also be recorded to real time user database . Algorithm may also calculate aggregated parameters such as average signal strength for devices at one or more locations. Data in the real time database may be reviewed by a 3rd party GUI or API to 3rd party through link C.

Users may be alternatively be identified by their name or another identifier instead of their phone numbers for each respective user in the user ID column. Longitude location and latitude location identify various unique locations where particular users are at the associated time in the time column . The data set may also include the speed velocity in the speed column that was calculated for the user.

In certain instances the direction of travel of each user s handheld device may also be determined and recorded. A data set may also be used to identify the road and direction on that road that the user s handheld device is moving. Datasets will typically be stored in the real time data base . Furthermore speeds or other parameters may be calculated using algorithm and the data contained in the dataset.

The various other columns in the table may relate to various cellular settings of user s handheld device. Cell data enable signal strength and enable auto signal strength entries may identify which settings are enabled or disabled on the user s handheld device. Applications Apps in the second data set may identify particular software applications used for a particular user ID . Other in the data set may include any other settings set on a user s handheld device.

In certain instances signal strength ranges between 100 80 may be listed as good signal strengths between 80 60 may be listed as fair signal strengths between 60 40 may be listed as weak and signal strengths less than 40 may be listed as poor. Alternatively an actual signal strength measurement e.g. number of bars at that particular time may also be stored.

Alternatively the location of a handheld device may be determined by the signal strength system using information received by each handheld device from cell towers. This information may be used to calculate the location of in the handheld device. The velocity of a handheld device may be determined by the signal strength system by calculating a change in location of the handheld device over time. Since a change in location corresponds to a distance the system can determine the distance that a smartphone has traveled in an amount of time thereby determining the velocity by dividing the distance by the amount of time.

Mobile station assisted GPS is an example of a system for determining the location of a handheld device. This form of assisted GPS uses snapshots of GPS data received by the handheld device that is transmitted to and received by a system. Such a system may use high quality GPS signals received by the system itself compare the fragments of GPS data from the handheld device and calculate a location. Similar location detection systems are common in the art. Frequently these systems may use information from cell towers when determining the location of a handheld device. Alternatively the location of a Wi Fi hotspot received by a handheld device may be used to determine an approximate location.

In step setting options and settings may be provided in the signal strength system according to the user s preference. In this step the signal strength system provides options and settings to the user for designating preferences. Options and settings provided may include types of suggestions that the user prefers to receive from the system. For example a user may wish to receive a recommendation relating to when it may be advisable to hang up because the signal strength received by the users handheld device is forecasted to reduce to a certain level. Other suggestions that the user may desire to receive include alternate route suggestions or recommendation regarding when to switch the call to a Wi Fi network.

In step users may be provided with iOS functionality on their handheld device for managing the signal strength system. As such users may be provided with specific levels of functionality that take advantage of features available on the operating system of the device e.g. different operating systems other than iOS may be used for phones other than iPhones . This step could also include providing users of other types of handheld devices with options and settings that are supported by their specific type or version of their handheld device.

In step 3rd party users may be provided with signal strength information. The signal strength system may provide information relating to signal strength to users of the system. This step may include the system sending alerts to 3rd party users relating to changes in signal strength that may affect such users. This information may also include information relating to the current signal strength of particular handheld devices. Thus this information enables a user to determine whether it may be better to call a contact using a cellular network Wi Fi network or another network. This functionality also enables the user to decide whether to call a contact now or to wait to call the contact until their signal strength improves.

In step the user may be allowed to set up the cellular system functions on their mobile device. As such the user may select options and settings relating to the signal strength system. The settings and options set up in this step may be the options and settings relating to any of steps or .

In step a call may be initiated between at least two users of communications devices. While the call may be initiated in accordance with methods known in the art the cellular signal strength management system module provides each user with information regarding the other s signal strength in real time during a call. In certain instances the system may further provide suggestions or recommendations on how to maintain signal strength or avoid interruptions in the call.

In step one or more 3rd party users may be provided access to the database of signal strength information. Information in the database may include recent signal strength information reported to the system by various users in various locations at various times. Such information may be used to derive or calculate various metrics including velocity path direction average signal strength for one or more locations over a period of time or an entire mapping of signal strength over a given path. Thus embodiments of the invention allow a user to plan a route that provides the best signal strength before they embark on a journey.

In step a user may set options and settings relating to signal strength sharing. Thus a user may enable disable or set signal strength settings to their personal preference.

In step the user may choose to enable automatic signal strength sharing which allows the handheld device to share signal strength information by default. When automatic signal strength sharing is enabled the user s handheld device can automatically transmit and receive signal strength information with compatible handheld devices. Automatic signal strength sharing may also cause the user s handheld device to automatically transmit signal strength information to the signal strength system with it is enabled.

In step a call may be connected between a first handheld device an a second handheld device. This is where a first user may speak with a second use.

In step a measure of signal strength may be transmitted from the first handheld device to the second hand held device and a corresponding indication of signal strength from the second handheld device may be received at the first handheld device. As such the first handheld device and the second handheld device share their respective signal strengths with each other. Thus the users of the respective devices may be made aware of the other s current signal strength.

In step a forecast relating to a future signal strength may be sent from a cellular signal strength system module and received at one or both of the handheld devices. For example the first handheld device may be traveling along a certain path known to have certain variations in signal strength. At a certain point prior to signal strength dropping to a certain threshold a notification and or forecast may be generated by the signal strength module and sent to the device as it nears the region of low signal strength. In some embodiments the forecast may further include a suggestion or recommendation on how to manage or maintain signal strength. The user may maintain or terminate the call as well as pause or change paths. The forecast may further indicate the predicted or expected signal strength at a location towards which the user may be advancing. Such information may allow or assist the user with the decision on how to address the predicted reduction of signal strength.

In step the user of the first electronic device may be allowed to select a manu of suggested or recommended actions. In certain instances user may typically select from a list of suggestions that may include hanging up pausing along the current path taking alternate path telling the other user s to call back or to expect low quality sound or switching to Wi Fi. In some embodiments the other users with whom the first user may be speaking may also be presented with suggested or recommended actions in response to the predicted reduction in signal quality. Such actions may be the same or different from the set presented to the first user.

Processors as illustrated in are meant to be inclusive of data processors image processors central processing unit or any variety of multi core processing devices. Any variety of sensors external devices and external subsystems can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate any number of functionalities within the architecture of the exemplar mobile device. For example motion sensor light sensor and proximity sensor can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate orientation lighting and proximity functions of the mobile device. For example light sensor could be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of touch surface . Motion sensor which could be exemplified in the context of an accelerometer or gyroscope could be utilized to detect movement and orientation of the mobile device. Display objects or media could then be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape .

Other sensors could be coupled to peripherals interface such as a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate corresponding functionalities. Location processor e.g. a global positioning transceiver can be coupled to peripherals interface to allow for generation of geo location data thereby facilitating geo positioning. An electronic magnetometer such as an integrated circuit chip could in turn be connected to peripherals interface to provide data related to the direction of true magnetic North whereby the mobile device could enjoy compass or directional functionality. Camera subsystem and an optical sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functionality can be facilitated through one or more communication subsystems which may include one or more wireless communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems can include 802.5 or Bluetooth transceivers as well as optical transceivers such as infrared. Wired communication system can include a port device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB port or some other wired port connection that can be used to establish a wired coupling to other computing devices such as network access devices personal computers printers displays or other processing devices capable of receiving or transmitting data. The specific design and implementation of communication subsystem may depend on the communication network or medium over which the device is intended to operate. For example a device may include wireless communication subsystem designed to operate over a global system for mobile communications GSM network a GPRS network an enhanced data GSM environment EDGE network 802.5 communication networks code division multiple access CDMA networks or Bluetooth networks. Communication subsystem may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices. Communication subsystems can also allow the device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as TCP IP HTTP or UDP.

Audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and one or more microphones to facilitate voice enabled functions. These functions might include voice recognition voice replication or digital recording. Audio subsystem in conjunction may also encompass traditional telephony functions.

I O subsystem may include touch controller and or other input controller s . Touch controller can be coupled to a touch surface . Touch surface and touch controller may detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a number of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared or surface acoustic wave technologies. Other proximity sensor arrays or elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch surface may likewise be utilized. In one implementation touch surface can display virtual or soft buttons and a virtual keyboard which can be used as an input output device by the user.

Other input controllers can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheels infrared ports USB ports and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of speaker and or microphone . In some implementations device can include the functionality of an audio and or video playback or recording device and may include a pin connector for tethering to other devices.

Memory interface can be coupled to memory . Memory can include high speed random access memory or non volatile memory such as magnetic disk storage devices optical storage devices or flash memory. Memory can store operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X ANDROID WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VXWorks. Operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations operating system can include a kernel.

Memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with other mobile computing devices or servers. Communication instructions can also be used to select an operational mode or communication medium for use by the device based on a geographic location which could be obtained by the GPS Navigation instructions . Memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing such as the generation of an interface sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and instructions for any other application that may be operating on or in conjunction with the mobile computing device. Memory may also store other software instructions for facilitating other processes features and applications such as applications related to navigation social networking location based services or map displays.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. Memory can include additional or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Certain features may be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of the foregoing. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Some examples of communication networks include LAN WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet. The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

One or more features or steps of the disclosed embodiments may be implemented using an API that can define on or more parameters that are passed between a calling application and other software code such as an operating system library routine function that provides a service that provides data or that performs an operation or a computation. The API can be implemented as one or more calls in program code that send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure based on a call convention defined in an API specification document. A parameter can be a constant a key a data structure an object an object class a variable a data type a pointer an array a list or another call. API calls and parameters can be implemented in any programming language. The programming language can define the vocabulary and calling convention that a programmer may employ to access functions supporting the API. In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities of a device running the application such as input capability output capability processing capability power capability and communications capability.

Users may use any number of different electronic user devices such as general purpose computers mobile phones smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs portable computing devices e.g. laptop netbook tablets desktop computing devices handheld computing device or any other type of computing device capable of communicating over communication network. User devices may also be configured to access data from other storage media such as memory cards or disk drives as may be appropriate in the case of downloaded services. User device may include standard hardware computing components such as network and media interfaces non transitory computer readable storage memory and processors for executing instructions that may be stored in memory.

The figures included with this disclosure are for the purpose of illustrating the invention. The figures show aspects of one or more embodiments of the invention and are examples the figures are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. So it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown in the figures.

Communication networks or links allow for communication between the user device cloud social media system and third party developers via various communication paths or channels. Such paths or channels may include any type of data communication link known in the art including TCP IP connections and Internet connections via cellular Wi Fi Bluetooth UMTS etc. In that regard communications network may be a local area network LAN which may be communicatively coupled to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The Internet is a broad network of interconnected computers and servers allowing for the transmission and exchange of Internet Protocol IP data between users connected through a network service provider. Examples of network service providers are the public switched telephone network a cable service provider a provider of digital subscriber line DSL services or a satellite service provider. Communications network allows for communication between any of the various components of network environment.

The cellular signal strength system module may include any type of server or other computing device as is known in the art including standard hardware computing components such as network and media interfaces non transitory computer readable storage memory and processors for executing instructions or accessing information that may be stored in memory. The functionalities of multiple servers may be integrated into a single server. Alternatively different functionalities may be allocated among multiple servers which may be located remotely from each other and communicate over the cloud. Any of the aforementioned servers or an integrated server may take on certain client side cache or proxy server characteristics. These characteristics may depend on the particular network placement of the server or certain configurations of the server.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. The descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments. It should be understood that the above description is illustrative and not restrictive. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

