---

title: Providing user input to a computing device with an eye closure
abstract: Various embodiments enable additional content or features to be displayed to a user in response to detecting one eye of the user being closed either as a wink or for a duration of time. In one example, the additional content is graphical overlay, such as a menu containing selectable graphical elements to perform functions related to an application, game, or content, of global navigational features of the computing device in general, or to alternate views, features, or supplemental content for an application or game currently being displayed on a computing device. In one example, the overlay may be displayed only as long as the user keeps one eye closed or, alternatively, the user could wink to display the overlay and provide some other input to remove the overlay.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483113&OS=09483113&RS=09483113
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09483113
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150518
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 791 265 filed on Mar. 8 2013 entitled PROVIDING USER INPUT TO A COMPUTING DEVICE WITH AN EYE CLOSURE which is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

People are increasingly using portable computing devices in a wider variety of ways and increasingly relying upon the same to access various types of content. For example many users rely upon computing devices to store contact information user schedules task lists and other such information. Unfortunately the data is often not organized or presented in a way that is intuitive for many users. Further for portable computing devices such as smart phones or tablet computers the screen size can be limited such that it can be difficult for a user to locate information due to the size of the various icons or elements with respect to the size of a user s finger. Thus as technology advances and as people are increasingly using portable computing devices in a wider variety of ways it can be advantageous to adapt the ways in which people access content through the same.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may overcome one or more of the aforementioned and other deficiencies experienced in conventional approaches to providing input to a computing device. In particular various approaches enable a user to provide input to a computing device with an eye closure input such as a wink or closing one eye for a predetermined period of time as captured by at least one sensor. For example a computing device can detect whether or not a user is winking i.e. closing one eye for at least a determined period of time and in response display an overlay or alternate view of content being displayed.

In at least one embodiment content is displayed on a display of a computing device while image information of a user is being captured. The image information can include information associated with tracking each of two eyes of the user over a period of time that the user is engaging the computing device. In response to detecting one eye of the user being closed a graphical overlay can in one example be displayed over content displayed on the display element. In one example once the computing device detects both eyes being open again the overlay can be removed from the display element.

As discussed herein an overlay can include a menu containing selectable graphical elements to perform functions related to an application game or content to global navigational features of the computing device in general or to alternate views features or supplemental content for an application game or content currently being displayed on the display element. In one example the overlay may be displayed only as long as the user keeps one eye closed or alternatively the user could wink i.e. closing and opening one eye to display the overlay and provide some other input i.e. a second wink touch selection input or voice command to remove the overlay.

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

In at least one embodiment the user can provide input to the computing device to display a graphical overlay by closing one eye or winking. In this example the user is playing a sniper game as displayed on a display screen of the computing device . In this example the computing device is capturing image information of the user with an imaging element or sensor which can track each eye. As used herein a sensor can refer to any imaging element such as a camera an infrared sensor an ultraviolet sensor and the like. In accordance with various embodiments shows one example view of the sniper game such as if the user is walking or moving from one part of a level to another where both eyes of the user are in an open state except for the occasional natural blinking . Then in the user has closed one eye in a closed state and in response the computing device has displayed a magnified version of the view from along with a crosshair to simulate a scope or aiming mode of the sniper game. In this example the scope mode of the sniper game may last only as long as the eye of the user remains in the closed state to simulate the experience of actually aiming at a target. Alternatively the user could wink once to cause the scope mode overlay to be displayed then play the game in the scope mode until desired at which point the user could wink again or provide a touch selection input or voice command to remove the scope mode overlay and go back into the regular mode as shown in .

As discussed herein an overlay can include a menu containing selectable graphical elements to perform functions related to an application game or content to global navigational features of the computing device in general or to alternate views features or supplemental content for an application game or content currently being displayed on the display element. A wink i.e. closing and opening one eye can be associated with one command or input and closing one eye and holding it closed for a given period of time could be associated with another command or input. Further different eyes can be associated with different inputs or commands. For example closing or winking the right eye can reveal an overlay menu and winking or closing the left eye could launch and open an email application. In another example holding the right eye closed for a period of time could launch a map application holding the left eye closed could reveal a traffic overlay on a default view of the map providing a wink with the right eye could zoom in on an area of the map and providing a wink with the left eye could zoom out from the area. Additionally a wink could be used to initiate spell check within a word processing application or a wink could bring up a user s contacts within a phone email or messaging application. Various other approaches and combinations can be used as well with various applications and uses as discussed or suggested elsewhere herein.

In another example a user could observe a true three dimensional 3D experience from a standard two dimensional 2D display screen by showing a correct image to the each eye of the user. When the user s left eye is closed the correct image for the right eye can be displayed. Likewise when the right eye is closed the correct image for the left eye can be displayed. Accordingly if the user alternates closing their left and right eyes they will experience a 3D effect.

In various embodiments the image information can be captured by an infrared IR sensor that detects infrared radiation reflected from the back of the user s eyes retinal reflection to determine if one eye is closed. In other embodiments template matching could be used to match features of a user to training or template images to determine whether one eye of the user is closed in one or more frames captured by an imagining element such as by detecting the presence of light or dark spots in the location where the user s eyes normally are located. Accordingly detecting a state of each eye could utilize either an analog or Boolean detection method. Various other methods and applications can be used to detect whether a user has winked or closed one eye in accordance with various embodiments.

Another example technique that can be used in determining a gaze direction of a user us described with respect to . In this example various approaches attempt to locate one or more desired features of a user s face to determine various useful aspects for determining the relative orientation of a user. For example an image can be analyzed to determine the approximate location and size of a user s head or face. illustrates an example wherein the approximate position and area of a user s head or face is determined and a virtual box is placed around the face as an indication of position using one of a plurality of image analysis algorithms for making such a determination. Using one algorithm a virtual box is placed around a user s face and the position and or size of this box is continually updated and monitored in order to monitor relative user position. Similar algorithms can also be used to determine an approximate location and area of each of the user s eyes or in some cases the eyes in tandem . By determining the location of the user s eyes as well advantages can be obtained as it can be more likely that the image determined to be the user s head actually includes the user s head and it can be determined whether the user is gazing at the computing device. Further the relative movement of the user s eyes can be easier to detect than the overall movement of the user s head when performing motions such as nodding or shaking the head back and forth.

Various other algorithms can be used to determine the location of features on a user s face. For example illustrates an example method where various features on a user s face are identified and assigned a point location in the image. The system thus can detect various aspects of a user s features. Such an approach provides advantages over the general approach of in certain situations as various points along a feature can be determined such as the end points and at least one center point of a user s mouth.

Once the positions of facial features of a user are identified relative motion between the user and the device can be detected. For example illustrates an example where the user s head is moving up and down with respect to the viewable area of the imaging element. As discussed this could be the result of the user shaking his or her head or the user moving the device up and down etc. illustrates a similar example wherein the user is moving right to left relative to the device through movement of the user the device or both. As can be seen each movement can be tracked as a vertical or horizontal movement respectively and each can be treated differently. As should be understood such a process also can detect diagonal or other such movements. further illustrates an example wherein the user tilts the device and or the user s head and the relative change in eye position is detected as a rotation. In some systems a line that corresponds to the relative position of the eyes can be monitored and a shift in angle of this line can be compared to an angle threshold to determine when the rotation should be interpreted.

In this example the computing device has a display screen e.g. an LCD element operable to display information or image content to one or more users or viewers of the device. The display screen of some embodiments displays information to the viewers facing the display screen e.g. on the same side of the computing device as the display screen . The computing device in this example can include one or more imaging elements in this example including two image capture elements on the front of the device and at least one image capture element on the back of the device. It should be understood however that image capture elements could also or alternatively be placed on the sides or corners of the device and that there can be any appropriate number of capture elements of similar or different types. Each image capture element and may be for example a camera a charge coupled device CCD a motion detection sensor or an infrared sensor or other image capturing technology.

As discussed the device can use the images e.g. still or video captured from the imaging elements and to generate a three dimensional simulation of the surrounding environment e.g. a virtual reality of the surrounding environment for display on the display element of the device . Further the device can utilize outputs from at least one of the image capture elements and to assist in determining the location and or orientation of a user and in recognizing nearby persons objects or locations. For example if the user is holding the device the captured image information can be analyzed e.g. using mapping information about a particular area to determine the approximate location and or orientation of the user. The captured image information may also be analyzed to recognize nearby persons objects or locations e.g. by matching parameters or elements from the mapping information .

The computing device can also include at least one microphone or other audio capture elements capable of capturing audio data such as words spoken by a user of the device music being hummed by a person near the device or audio being generated by a nearby speaker or other such component although audio elements are not required in at least some devices. In this example there are three microphones one microphone on the front side one microphone on the back and one microphone on or near a top or side of the device. In some devices there may be only one microphone while in other devices there might be at least one microphone on each side and or corner of the device or in other appropriate locations.

The device in this example also includes one or more orientation or position determining elements operable to provide information such as a position direction motion or orientation of the device. These elements can include for example accelerometers inertial sensors electronic gyroscopes and electronic compasses.

The example device also includes at least one communication mechanism such as may include at least one wired or wireless component operable to communicate with one or more electronic devices. The device also includes a power system such as may include a battery operable to be recharged through conventional plug in approaches or through other approaches such as capacitive charging through proximity with a power mat or other such device. Various other elements and or combinations are possible as well within the scope of various embodiments.

The device typically will include some type of display element such as a touch screen electronic ink e ink organic light emitting diode OLED or liquid crystal display LCD although devices such as portable media players might convey information via other means such as through audio speakers.

As discussed the device in many embodiments will include at least one imaging element such as one or more cameras that are able to capture images of the surrounding environment and that are able to image a user people or objects in the vicinity of the device. The image capture element can include any appropriate technology such as a CCD image capture element having a sufficient resolution focal range and viewable area to capture an image of the user when the user is operating the device. Methods for capturing images using a camera element with a computing device are well known in the art and will not be discussed herein in detail. It should be understood that image capture can be performed using a single image multiple images periodic imaging continuous image capturing image streaming etc. Further a device can include the ability to start and or stop image capture such as when receiving a command from a user application or other device.

The example computing device also includes at least one orientation determining element able to determine and or detect orientation and or movement of the device. Such an element can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect movement e.g. rotational movement angular displacement tilt position orientation motion along a non linear path etc. of the device . An orientation determining element can also include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect .

As discussed the device in many embodiments will include at least a positioning element for determining a location of the device or the user of the device . A positioning element can include or comprise a GPS or similar location determining elements operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the device. As mentioned above positioning elements may include wireless access points base stations etc. that may either broadcast location information or enable triangulation of signals to determine the location of the device. Other positioning elements may include QR codes barcodes RFID tags NFC tags etc. that enable the device to detect and receive location information or identifiers that enable the device to obtain the location information e.g. by mapping the identifiers to a corresponding location . Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination.

As mentioned above some embodiments use the element s to track the location of a device. Upon determining an initial position of a device e.g. using GPS the device of some embodiments may keep track of the location of the device by using the element s or in some instances by using the orientation determining element s as mentioned above or a combination thereof. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining a position and or orientation can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device.

The example device also includes one or more wireless components operable to communicate with one or more electronic devices within a communication range of the particular wireless channel. The wireless channel can be any appropriate channel used to enable devices to communicate wirelessly such as Bluetooth cellular NFC or Wi Fi channels. It should be understood that the device can have one or more conventional wired communications connections as known in the art.

The device also includes a power system such as a battery operable to be recharged through conventional plug in approaches or through other approaches such as capacitive charging through proximity with a power mat or other such device. Various other elements and or combinations are possible as well within the scope of various embodiments.

In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. These I O devices could even be connected by a wireless infrared or Bluetooth or other link as well in some embodiments. Some devices also can include a microphone or other audio capture element that accepts voice or other audio commands. For example a device might not include any buttons at all but might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

In some embodiments a device can include the ability to activate and or deactivate detection and or command modes such as when receiving a command from a user or an application or retrying to determine an audio input or video input etc. In some embodiments a device can include an infrared detector or motion sensor for example which can be used to activate one or more detection modes. For example a device might not attempt to detect or communicate with devices when there is not a user in the room. If an infrared detector i.e. a detector with one pixel resolution that detects changes in state detects a user entering the room for example the device can activate a detection or control mode such that the device can be ready when needed by the user but conserve power and resources when a user is not nearby.

A computing device in accordance with various embodiments may include a light detecting element that is able to determine whether the device is exposed to ambient light or is in relative or complete darkness. Such an element can be beneficial in a number of ways. In certain conventional devices a light detecting element is used to determine when a user is holding a cell phone up to the user s face causing the light detecting element to be substantially shielded from the ambient light which can trigger an action such as the display element of the phone to temporarily shut off since the user cannot see the display element while holding the device to the user s ear . The light detecting element could be used in conjunction with information from other elements to adjust the functionality of the device. For example if the device is unable to detect a user s view location and a user is not holding the device but the device is exposed to ambient light the device might determine that it has likely been set down by the user and might turn off the display element and disable certain functionality. If the device is unable to detect a user s view location a user is not holding the device and the device is further not exposed to ambient light the device might determine that the device has been placed in a bag or other compartment that is likely inaccessible to the user and thus might turn off or disable additional features that might otherwise have been available. In some embodiments a user must either be looking at the device holding the device or have the device out in the light in order to activate certain functionality of the device. In other embodiments the device may include a display element that can operate in different modes such as reflective for bright situations and emissive for dark situations . Based on the detected light the device may change modes.

Using the microphone the device can disable other features for reasons substantially unrelated to power savings. For example the device can use voice recognition to determine people near the device such as children and can disable or enable features such as Internet access or parental controls based thereon. Further the device can analyze recorded noise to attempt to determine an environment such as whether the device is in a car or on a plane and that determination can help to decide which features to enable disable or which actions are taken based upon other inputs. If voice recognition is used words can be used as input either directly spoken to the device or indirectly as picked up through conversation. For example if the device determines that it is in a car facing the user and detects a word such as hungry or eat then the device might turn on the display element and display information for nearby restaurants etc. A user can have the option of turning off voice recording and conversation monitoring for privacy and other such purposes.

In some of the above examples the actions taken by the device relate to deactivating certain functionality for purposes of reducing power consumption. It should be understood however that actions can correspond to other functions that can adjust similar and other potential issues with use of the device. For example certain functions such as requesting Web page content searching for content on a hard drive and opening various applications can take a certain amount of time to complete. For devices with limited resources or that have heavy usage a number of such operations occurring at the same time can cause the device to slow down or even lock up which can lead to inefficiencies degrade the user experience and potentially use more power.

In order to address at least some of these and other such issues approaches in accordance with various embodiments can also utilize information such as user gaze direction to activate resources that are likely to be used in order to spread out the need for processing capacity memory space and other such resources.

In some embodiments the device can have sufficient processing capability and the imaging element and associated analytical algorithm s may be sensitive enough to distinguish between the motion of the device motion of a user s head motion of the user s eyes and other such motions based on the captured images alone. In other embodiments such as where it may be desirable for the process to utilize a fairly simple imaging element and analysis approach it can be desirable to include at least one orientation determining element that is able to determine a current orientation of the device. In one example the at least one orientation determining element is at least one single or multi axis accelerometer that is able to detect factors such as three dimensional position of the device and the magnitude and direction of movement of the device as well as vibration shock etc. Methods for using elements such as accelerometers to determine orientation or movement of a device are also known in the art and will not be discussed herein in detail. Other elements for detecting orientation and or movement can be used as well within the scope of various embodiments for use as the orientation determining element. When the input from an accelerometer or similar element is used along with the input from the camera the relative movement can be more accurately interpreted allowing for a more precise input and or a less complex image analysis algorithm.

When using an imaging element of the computing device to detect motion of the device and or user for example the computing device can use the background in the images to determine movement. For example if a user holds the device at a fixed orientation e.g. distance angle etc. to the user and the user changes orientation to the surrounding environment analyzing an image of the user alone will not result in detecting a change in an orientation of the device. Rather in some embodiments the computing device can still detect movement of the device by recognizing the changes in the background imagery behind the user. So for example if an object e.g. a window picture tree bush building car etc. moves to the left or right in the image the device can determine that the device has changed orientation even though the orientation of the device with respect to the user has not changed. In other embodiments the device may detect that the user has moved with respect to the device and adjust accordingly. For example if the user tilts their head to the left or right with respect to the device the content rendered on the display element may likewise tilt to keep the content in orientation with the user.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. The network could be a push network a pull network or a combination thereof. In a push network one or more of the servers push out data to the client device. In a pull network one or more of the servers send data to the client device upon request for the data by the client device. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing content e.g. production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store is also shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments can be further implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers or computing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system can also include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices can also include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s may also be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch sensitive display element or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices can also include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

