---

title: Method and apparatus for operating an electronic device
abstract: An electronic device comprising: a communication interface; a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and the communication interface, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: detect a change of state of the electronic device; transmit to a secondary electronic device a first information item associated with the change of state of the electronic device; receive a second information item from the secondary electronic device in response to the first information item; and perform an operation based on the secondary information item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578156&OS=09578156&RS=09578156
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09578156
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150930
---
This application claims the priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2014 0131103 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Sep. 30 2014 and Korean Application Serial No. 10 2015 0137472 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Sep. 30 2015 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to electronic devices in general and more particularly to a method and apparatus for operating an electronic device.

Electronic devices such as smart phones or tablet PCs may be excellent educational electronic devices in that they can execute games or various mobile applications for educational purposes as well as animations for children or educational video content. Such electronic devices may mostly provide specialized functions e.g. videos games or educational applications for children or widget forms of functions that children like.

Existing electronic devices control themselves by configuring a specific mode e.g. a kids mode therein in order to simply control the time spent by specific subjects e.g. users or children using the electronic devices and to restrict applications or programs or content to be used. Furthermore the existing specific mode simply provides specialized applications and UXs for children and the control functions that control the electronic devices are limited.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a first electronic device and a second electronic device interwork with each other and the first electronic device can manage and restrict the use of the second electronic device for a specific subject e.g. a child .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first and second electronic devices interwork with each other and various different functions e.g. a notification function a remote control function a push to talk PTT function etc. can be provided to subjects e.g. a parent and a child who use the first and second electronic devices.

According to various embodiments a specific mode configured for the second electronic device e.g. a smart phone or a tablet PC can be executed and managed by the first electronic device e.g. a wearable device or a smart phone and when a specific subject e.g. a child uses the second electronic device the second electronic device can provide various types of information on the use thereof to the first electronic device and the first electronic device can restrict the operations of the second electronic device by providing various types of information of the second electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device can be controlled through at least one other electronic device process execution configuration or release of a specific mode in response to a control of the other electronic device and can provide various feedback for the processing result to the other electronic device.

According to aspects of the disclosure an electronic device is provided comprising a communication interface a memory and at least one processor coupled to the memory and the communication interface wherein the at least one processor is configured to detect a change of state of the electronic device transmit to a secondary electronic device a first information item associated with the change of state of the electronic device receive a second information item from the secondary electronic device in response to the first information item and perform an operation based on the secondary information item.

According to aspects of the disclosure a method comprising establishing a wireless connection between a first device and a second device detecting a change of state of the first device transmitting from the first device to the second device a first information item associated with the change of state of the first device receiving by the first device a second information item that is transmitted by the second device in response to the first information item and performing by the first device an operation based on the second information item.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The present disclosure may have various embodiments and modifications and changes may be made therein. Therefore the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to particular embodiments shown in the accompanying drawings. However it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to the particular embodiments but includes all modifications equivalents and or alternatives within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. In the description of the drawings similar reference numerals may be used to designate similar elements.

As used in various embodiments of the present disclosure the expressions include may include and other conjugates refer to the existence of a corresponding disclosed function operation or constituent element and do not limit one or more additional functions operations or constituent elements. Further as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure the terms include have and their conjugates are intended merely to denote a certain feature numeral step operation element component or a combination thereof and should not be construed to initially exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other features numerals steps operations elements components or combinations thereof.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the expression or or at least one of A or and B includes any or all of combinations of words listed together. For example the expression A or B or at least A or and B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

In the present disclosure expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second etc. may modify various elements. However such elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing an element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element may be termed a second element and likewise a second element may also be termed a first element without departing from the scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure.

When an element is referred to as being coupled or connected to any other element it should be understood that not only the element may be coupled or connected directly to the other element but also a third element may be interposed therebetween. Contrarily when an element is referred to as being directly coupled or directly connected to any other element it should be understood that no element is interposed therebetween.

The terms as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used merely to describe a certain embodiment and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein singular forms may include plural forms as well unless the context explicitly indicates otherwise. Furthermore all terms used herein including technical and scientific terms have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in various embodiments of the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a Smartphone a Tablet Personal Computer PC a Mobile Phone a Video Phone an Electronic Book e book reader a Desktop PC a Laptop PC a Netbook Computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a Mobile Medical Appliance a Camera and a Wearable Device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory electronic tattoos or a smartwatch .

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. For example the smart home appliance may include at least one of a television a digital video disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic photo frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various medical appliances e.g. magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography CT and ultrasonic machines navigation equipment a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR automotive infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an automatic teller machine ATM of a banking system and a point of sales POS of a shop.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter and a radio wave meter .

The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Further the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Further it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may indicate a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device may include at least one of a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus may be a circuit that interconnects the aforementioned elements and transmits communication signals e.g. control messages between the aforementioned elements.

The processor may include any suitable type of processing circuitry such as one or more general purpose processors e.g. ARM based processors a Digital Signal Processor DSP a Programmable Logic Device PLD an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA etc. In operation the processor may for example receive instructions from the other aforementioned elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface via the bus decode the received instructions and perform calculations or data processing according to the decoded instructions.

At least one processor may be included in the electronic device to perform a specified function of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the processor may include one or more application processors APs and one or more microcontroller units MCUs . According to another embodiment the processor may include one or more microcontroller units as applications or may be functionally connected to one or more microcontroller units. In the APs and the MCUs may be included in one IC package or may be separately configured to be included in different IC packages respectively. According to an embodiment the MCUs may also be included in an IC package of the APs so as to be configured as one IC package together with the APs. Although the processor is illustrated as including the APs or the MCUs it is nothing more than an embodiment for clear understanding and it is apparent that the processor may also perform the operations of the APs and or the MCUs.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may control operations relating to the interworking between electronic devices. In the various embodiments in instances in which the electronic device operates as a parent terminal for controlling a counterpart electronic device connected thereto the processor may process the performance of various operations relating to the controlling of the counterpart electronic device. In the various embodiments in instances in which the electronic device operates as a child terminal that operates under the control of a counterpart electronic device connected thereto the processor may sense the control of the counterpart electronic device the state of the electronic device and the state of a user and may process the performance of various operations corresponding to them. In the various embodiments the processor may include an interworking program which will be described below and may process the function of the interworking program . In the various embodiments the processor may include a specific program or at least one element of a specific module to perform at least one of the operations that the specific program or module performs e.g. to perform at least one operation on behalf of the specific program or module . In the various embodiments of the present disclosure various processing operations that the processor performs according to operating agents will be described below with reference to drawings e.g. .

For example according to the various embodiments the processor may sense a specific situation and may transmit a notification message for the situation through the communication interface to the other electronic device and may control a mode on the basis of the control message received from the other electronic device. The processor may process a situation in which a specified user who is using the electronic device is identified or a specific situation in which the electronic device is activated. The processor may process a determined message to perform a preset specific mode in correspondence to the specified user. The processor may change to a mode for restricting the execution of at least one program. In instances in which the received control message does not include a user input the processor may refrain from changing the mode. In instances in which the user s detected biometric information is beyond a specified range the processor may detect it. The processor may back up at least a part of a user interface data and setting information at the time of a mode change and may perform a restoring function on the basis of the backup at the time of the termination of the changed mode. The processor may identify the quality of communication with the other electronic device and may change to at least one of a real time call connection and a limited call connection on the basis of the communication quality.

The APs may control a plurality of hardware or software elements connected thereto and may perform processing and operations on various types of data including multimedia data by driving an operating system or application programs or applications . The APs may be embodied as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not illustrated .

The MCUs may be processors configured to perform specified operations. According to an embodiment the MCUs may acquire sensing information through one or more specified motion sensors e.g. a gyro sensor an acceleration sensor and a geomagnetic sensor compare the acquired sensing information and determine the respective operating states of the specified sensors with reference to a database of the electronic device .

According to an embodiment the APs or the MCUs may load instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memories or other elements connected thereto in volatile memories and may process the loaded instructions or data. Furthermore the APs or the MCUs may store data received from or generated by at least one of the other elements in the non volatile memories.

The memory may include any suitable type of volatile or non volatile memory such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Network Accessible Storage NAS cloud storage a Solid State Drive SSD etc. In operation the memory may store instructions or data received from or generated by the processor or the other elements e.g. the input output interface the display and the communication interface . The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel middleware an application programming interface API applications or the like. Each of the above described programming modules may be configured with software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like used to execute operations or functions implemented in the remaining programming modules for example the middleware the API and the applications . Also the kernel may provide an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application to access control or manage individual elements of the electronic device .

The middleware may function as an intermediary that allows the API or the applications to communicate with the kernel in order to exchange data. Furthermore in connection with task requests received from the applications the middleware may perform a control e.g. scheduling or load balancing on the task requests by using for example a method of assigning a priority to use system resources of the electronic device e.g. the bus the processor the memory or the like to at least one of the applications .

The API which is an interface for allowing the applications to control functions provided by the kernel or the middleware may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for a file control a window control image processing a text control or the like.

The applications may include a short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring physical activity or blood glucose and an environmental information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information . The applications or processors may include an application associated with the exchange of information between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or . The application associated with the exchange of information may include for example a notification relay application for transferring specific information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device. The notification relay application may for example include a function of transferring to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device notification information generated by other applications e.g. an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environmental information application of the electronic device .

Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application may for example manage e.g. install delete or update functions for at least a part of an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device communicating with the electronic device e.g. turning on off the external electronic device itself or some elements thereof or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display applications operating in the external electronic device or services e.g. a telephone call service or a message service provided by the external electronic device. According to various embodiments the applications may include an application specified according to the attribute e.g. type of an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or . For example in instances in which an external electronic device is an MP3 player the applications may include an application relating to the reproduction of music. Similarly in instances in which an external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications may include an application relating to health care. According to an embodiment the applications may include at least one of applications specified to the electronic device and applications received from an external electronic device e.g. a server or the electronic device .

In the various embodiments of the present disclosure the interworking program included in the applications may be provided or the interworking program may be stored as a separate program in the memory .

The interworking program may sense a specific situation and transmit a notification message for the situation through the communication interface to the other electronic device and may control a mode on the basis of the control message received from the other electronic device. The interworking program may process a situation in which a specified user using the electronic device is identified or a specific situation where the electronic device is activated. The interworking program may process a determined message to perform a preset specific mode in correspondence to the specified user. The interworking program may change to a mode for restricting the execution of at least one program. In instances in which the received control message does not include a user input the interworking program refrain from changing the mode. In instances in which the user s detected biometric information is beyond a specified range the interworking program may detect it. The interworking program may back up at least a part of a user interface data and setting information at the time that the mode is changed and may perform a restoring function on the basis of the backup at the time that the changed mode is terminated. The interworking program may identify the quality of communication with the other electronic device and change to at least one of a real time call connection and a limited call connection on the basis of the communication quality.

The input output interface may forward instructions or data input from a user through an input output device e.g. various sensors such as an acceleration sensor or a gyro sensor and or a device such as a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory or the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide the processor with data on a user touch entered on a touch screen. Furthermore the input output interface may output instructions or data received from for example the processor the memory or the communication interface via the bus through an output unit e.g. a speaker or the display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed by the processor to a user through a speaker.

The display may display various types of information e.g. multimedia data or text data to a user. In addition the display may include an input unit and may also be configured with a touch screen to which an instruction is input by a touch or by a proximity touch of the input unit on the display .

The communication interface e.g. a communication module may establish a communication connection between the electronic device and an external device e.g. the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with an external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC a global positioning system GPS and cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a universal serial bus USB a high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 and a plain old telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a telecommunication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment at least one of the applications the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface may support a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device.

According to an embodiment the server may support the driving of the electronic device by performing at least one of the operations or functions implemented in the electronic device . For example the server may include a server module e.g. a server controller or a server process not illustrated that may support the processor which controls the electronic device to perform various embodiments of the present disclosure to be described below or a specific module specified to perform the various embodiments. For example the server module may include at least one element of the processor or the specific module to perform at least one of the operations performed by the processor or the specific module e.g. perform the operations on behalf of the processor or the specific module . According to various embodiments the server module may be represented as an interworking processing server module of . Various embodiments may be provided through to be described below.

The electronic device may constitute for example the entirety or a part of the electronic device illustrated in or may expand all or some elements of the electronic device . Referring to the electronic device may include at least one processor a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator or a motor .

At least one processor may be included in the electronic device to perform a specified function of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the processor may include one or more application processors APs and one or more microcontroller units MCUs . According to another embodiment the processor may include one or more microcontroller units as applications or may be functionally connected to one or more microcontroller units. In the APs and the MCUs may be included in one IC package or may be separately configured to be included in different IC packages respectively. According to an embodiment the MCUs may be included in an IC package of the APs to be configured as one IC package together with the APs. Although the processor is illustrated as including the APs or the MCUs as elements thereof it is nothing more than an embodiment for clear understanding and it is apparent that the processor may also perform the operations of the APs and or the MCUs.

The APs may control a plurality of hardware or software elements connected thereto and perform processing and operations on various types of data including multimedia data by driving an operating system or application programs or applications . The APs may be embodied as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not illustrated .

The MCUs may be processors configured to perform specified operations. According to an embodiment the MCUs may acquire sensing information through one or more specified motion sensors e.g. a gyro sensor B an acceleration sensor E or a geomagnetic sensor not illustrated compare the acquired sensing information and determine the respective operating states of the specified sensors e.g. a geomagnetic sensor with reference to a database of the electronic device . In addition although the MCUs and the elements of the sensor module are illustrated as separate elements in the MCUs may be implemented to include at least some elements of the aforementioned sensor module e.g. at least one of the gyro sensor B the acceleration sensor E and the geomagnetic sensor according to an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the APs or the MCUs may load instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memories or other elements connected thereto in volatile memories and may process the loaded instructions or data. Furthermore the APs or the MCUs may store data received from or generated by at least one of the other elements in non volatile memories.

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may perform data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or or the server connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call service a video call service a text message service or an Internet service through a communication network e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile communication GSM . Furthermore the cellular module may for example distinguish between and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network using a subscriber identification module e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least some of the functions that the AP may provide. For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . Furthermore the cellular module may be embodied as for example an SoC. Although the elements such as the cellular module e.g. a communication processor the memory and the power management module are illustrated to be separate from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some of the aforementioned elements e.g. the cellular module according to an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module e.g. the communication processor may load instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memories or other elements connected thereto in volatile memories and may process the loaded instructions or data. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of the other elements in a non volatile memory.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. In the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as separate blocks. However according to an embodiment at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or one IC package. For example at least some of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example RF signals. Although not illustrated the RF module may for example include a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA or the like. In addition the RF module may further include an element for transmitting receiving electronic waves over free air space in wireless communication such as a conductor a conducting wire or the like. In the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module . However according to an embodiment at least one of them may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card that includes a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a specific location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of for example a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM or the like or a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory or the like .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a micro secure digital Micro SD a mini secure digital Mini SD an extreme digital xD a Memory Stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard disc drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or sense the operating state of the electronic device and convert the measured or sensed information into an electric signal. The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a red green and blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an electromyography EMG sensor not illustrated an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not illustrated an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not illustrated an infrared IR sensor not illustrated an iris sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor not illustrated and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may detect a touch input using at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. Furthermore the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive type touch panel physical contact or proximity detection is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using the same or a similar method to receiving a user s touch input or using a separate sheet for detection. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device may identify data by sensing acoustic waves with the microphone e.g. a microphone of the electronic device through an input unit used for generating ultrasonic signals and may perform a wireless detection. According to an embodiment the electronic device may also receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or server connected thereto using the communication module .

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED or the like. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may also be formed as a single module together with the touch panel . The hologram device may show a three dimensional image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may display an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen may be located for example in the interior of or on the exterior of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure digital SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and an electric signal. At least some elements of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may process voice information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones or the microphone .

The camera module which is a device for capturing both still and moving images may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not illustrated an image signal processor ISP not illustrated or a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp not illustrated according to an embodiment.

The power management module may manage the power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge. According to various embodiments the PMIC may be mounted in an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an overvoltage or excess current from being introduced from a charger.

According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. Examples of the wireless charging may include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging and electromagnetic charging and an additional circuit for wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier or the like may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage a current or a temperature while charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate a specific state of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP for example a boot up state a message state or a state of charge SOC . A motor may convert an electric signal into a mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing device e.g. a GPU for mobile TV support. The processing unit for mobile TV support may process for example media data pursuant to a certain standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include one or more components and the name of a corresponding element may vary according to the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements and may exclude some of the elements or further include other additional elements. Further some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be coupled to form a single entity while performing the same functions as those of the corresponding elements before the coupling.

According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include a communication interface configured to establish wireless communication with the other electronic device a memory and a processor electrically connected with the memory and the communication interface wherein the processor is configured to execute sensing a change of state of the electronic device transmitting first information associated with the change of state to the other electronic device using the communication interface receiving second information associated with the control of the electronic device from the other electronic device by using the communication interface and performing a process of the electronic device using the second information. According to the various embodiments the change of state may include an event received from the outside a use event of the electronic device or a user s state change in the electronic device.

According to the various embodiments the processor may be configured to execute identifying users of the electronic device and the other electronic device when sensing the change of state of the electronic device and providing an event generated by the electronic device to the other electronic device when the users of the electronic devices differ from each other. According to the various embodiments when the users of the electronic devices differ from each other the processor may be configured to omit the output of an event corresponding to a call a message or an application notification that is received from the outside and transfer the corresponding event to the other electronic device.

According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to determine that the users of the electronic devices differ from each other when a specific mode is configured to restrict the use of the electronic device. According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to determine whether the users of the electronic devices are the same as each other on the basis of the distance between the electronic device and the other electronic device. According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to notify the other electronic device of information relating to an event in which the electronic device is used when the users of the electronic devices differ from each other.

According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to acquire the wearing information of the other electronic device from the other electronic device through the communication interface and determine the wearing state of the other electronic device on the basis of the acquired wearing information.

According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to execute a push to talk PTT function in response to a request from the other electronic device or a user input and process data transmission or reception according to the execution of the PTT function through the communication interface. According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to process the data in real time or in a predetermined time unit e.g. on a configured time basis to correspond to a connection state between the electronic device and the other electronic device when executing the PTT function. According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to execute the PTT function on the basis of a signal configured between the electronic device and the other electronic device to correspond to the connection state.

According to various embodiments the processor is configured to execute backing up at least a part of a user interface data and setting information of the electronic device when sensing the use event of the electronic device and recovering the electronic device on the basis of the backup in response to the control of the other electronic device or release of the use event of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the processor is configured to execute sensing the user s change of state from at least one electrically connected sensor determining whether the change of state is included in a preset reference and transmitting information corresponding to the change of state to the other electronic device when the change of state is included in the preset reference.

In the following descriptions of various embodiments electronic devices may be distinguished into a first electronic device e.g. the electronic device and a second electronic device e.g. the electronic device or and operations thereof will be described individually. The distinction is only for a clear explanation of the embodiments and the first electronic device and the second electronic device may be the same device or different devices. In the following various embodiments a smart phone or a tablet PC may be described as a representative example of the first electronic device and a wearable device e.g. a smart watch that may be worn on a user s body part may be described as a representative example of the second electronic device . However it is only for a clear explanation of the various embodiments of the present disclosure and the first electronic device may also be a wearable device and the second electronic device may also be a smart phone. Furthermore the first and second electronic devices may also be smart phones or wearable devices. In addition the first electronic device and or the second electronic device is not limited to the smart phones or the wearable devices and various types of devices capable of transmitting receiving data through a network communication connection between two devices may be employed for the first and second electronic devices.

As illustrated in it will be exemplified that the first electronic device is a smart phone and the second electronic device is a wearable device however the present disclosure is not limited thereto. According to an embodiment of the second electronic device may be worn by a manager e.g. a parent and the first electronic device may be operated by a specific user e.g. a child . According to another embodiment of the second electronic device may be worn by a specific user e.g. a child and the first electronic device may be operated by a manager e.g. a parent .

Referring to in operation the first electronic device and the second electronic device may interwork with each other. The first and second electronic devices may be connected to each other through a preset communication method within a predetermined coverage area corresponding to the communication method. For example the first and second electronic devices may be connected via a short range connection such as a Bluetooth connection having a range of about 10 m. According to various embodiments the first and second electronic devices may be connected to each other based on various communication methods such as Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy BLE Wi Fi infrared data association IrDA 3G LTE ultra wideband UWB near field communication NFC etc. In various embodiments in instances in which the first and second electronic devices are interconnected and exist in the predetermined coverage area according to the corresponding communication method the first electronic device may be controlled through the second electronic device . However in instances in which the first electronic device is beyond the predetermined coverage area the first electronic device may not be under the control of the second electronic device and vice versa.

According to various embodiments while the first and second electronic device interwork with each other various functions e.g. a notification function a remote control function and a push to talk PTT function may be performed differently in a specific mode e.g. a kids mode according to whether the first electronic device is used by a manager e.g. a parent or a specific user e.g. a child .

Hereinafter an example in which a manager e.g. a parent uses the second electronic device and a specific counterpart e.g. a child uses the first electronic device will be described with reference to .

In operation the first electronic device may notify the second electronic device of various pieces of information relating to the first electronic device . In some instances a specific mode e.g. a kids mode may be configured for the first electronic device according to the manipulation of the second or first electronic device or .

For example the first electronic device while being connected to the second electronic device may detect the use or stop of the first electronic device or a preset input that is received at the first electronic device e.g. a face image a touch input a change in the posture or movement of the second electronic device etc. or may monitor the state of the first electronic device and may transmit to the second electronic device information corresponding to that. For example the first electronic device may transmit to the second electronic device forwarding information for forwarding manipulation notification information according to the initiation or termination of use of the first electronic device state information according to monitoring and an event received from the outside e.g. a call a message an application notification etc. . In various embodiments the notification operation will be described in detail further below.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit the first electronic device a control signal for acquiring remote control over the first electronic device .

According to an embodiment the second electronic device may transmit a control signal for controlling the initiation or termination of a specific mode e.g. a kids mode to the first electronic device in response to the notification of the first electronic device for the use or stop termination thereof. According to another embodiment the second electronic device may transmit a control signal relating to an input output function control or a recovery mode control over the first electronic device to the first electronic device in response to the notification of the first electronic device for the state information thereof. In various embodiments the remote control operation will be described in detail further below.

Hereinafter a second case where a specific party e.g. a child uses the second electronic device and a manager e.g. a parent uses the first electronic device will be described with reference to .

In operation the first electronic device may notify the second electronic device of various pieces of information relating to the first electronic device . For instance a specific mode e.g. a missing child prevention mode may be configured for the second electronic device according to the manipulation of the second or first electronic device or .

For example the first electronic device while being connected to the second electronic device may transmit various pieces of information relating to operations of the second electronic device to the second electronic device in response to a control of a user e.g. the user of the first electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may notify the second electronic device of a notification or setting information relating to a missing child prevention function a physical condition check information relating to the user e.g. a child of the second electronic device notification or setting information relating to monitoring an emergency of the user e.g. a child of the second electronic device and the like. According to an embodiment the first electronic device may provide the second electronic device with reference information e.g. the distance or signal strength between the first and second electronic devices in response to a predetermined function being activated on the first electronic device e.g. a missing child prevention function . According to another embodiment the first electronic device may provide the second electronic device with various pieces of information associated with the physical condition of the user e.g. a child of the second electronic device e.g. indications of physiological parameters such as heart rate body temperature etc. . According to yet another embodiment the first electronic device may provide the second electronic device with setting information e.g. a check on a heart rate or movement for monitoring various emergencies e.g. waking up or crying of the user e.g. a child of the second electronic device . In various embodiments the notification operation will be described in detail further below.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit a control signal for the remote control of the first electronic device to the first electronic device .

According to an embodiment the second electronic device may transmit setting information relating to emergency mode setup of the first electronic device to the first electronic device . According to another embodiment the second electronic device may transmit the emergency state information associated with the user e.g. a child of the second electronic device to the user e.g. a parent of the first electronic device . In various embodiments the remote control operation will be described in detail with reference to drawings to be described below.

In the first or second case described above the first and second electronic devices may transmit receive data according to a PTT function Operation . According to an embodiment the first and second electronic devices may exchange voice and image information using the PTT function. For example the first and second electronic devices may provide a voice call a video call or a data call e.g. text to speech TTS and process data transmission reception according to that. In various embodiments the PPT operation will be described in detail with reference to drawings to be described below.

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may be connected to the second electronic device or another electronic device e.g. the electronic device or through network communication. For example the first and second electronic devices may be connected to each other through a short range communications protocol such a Bluetooth. The first electronic device may detect a situation where the first electronic device has been activated or started to be used on the basis of detection information and transmit a notification message for notifying the second electronic device that the first electronic device has been activated.

According to various embodiments in instances in which the first electronic device is transitioned from a standby state off state of the display to an activated state e.g. on state of the display the first electronic device may transmit to the second electronic device a message indicating that the first electronic device has been released from the standby state. In addition the first electronic device may acquire various pieces of state information generated in the first electronic device to determine the activated state of the first electronic device without being limited to determining the activated state of the first electronic device depending on the on off state of the display .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device may determine a situation in which the first electronic device is being used e.g. has been activated by a user on the basis of information acquired through at least one sensor included therein. For example the first electronic device may detect a situation in which the first electronic device is being used on the basis of information detected through a sensor such as the gyro sensor B or the acceleration sensor E for detecting the motion of the first electronic device in the on state of the display .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device may detect a situation in which the first electronic device is being used to perform an operation on the basis of information acquired through the grip sensor F and or the biometric sensor I with which a user s body part makes contact without being limited to the determining of the situation where the first electronic device is being used to perform an operation on the basis of the motion information of the first electronic device acquired through the gyro sensor B and or the acceleration sensor E.

According to an embodiment in instances in which the first electronic device includes a camera e.g. the camera module of if a user s face is detected through the camera the first electronic device may detect a situation in which the first electronic device is being used. For example when a child s face is detected through a front camera of the first electronic device it may be determined that the first electronic device is being used. In various embodiments face information e.g. the child s face image for the operation may be stored in the memory e.g. the memory of of the first electronic device and an operation of comparing a face image acquired through the camera with a pre registered face image may be further performed.

In various embodiments in instances in which the first electronic device determines the user s face image acquired through the camera to be a specific user s face image specified in setting information e.g. face information the first electronic device may change the operating state of the first electronic device which is configured to correspond to the specific user s face e.g. may call a specified mode or change to a specified mode . For example the first electronic device may register the specific user s image through the setting information and when identifying the specific user on the basis of an image taken through the camera the first electronic device may call a kids mode which is specified to correspond to the specific user or change to the kids mode . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may also call a guest mode or change to a guest mode when the user s image taken through the camera is determined to be an image of a user who is not registered as a specific user in the setting information. When a standby state is released the first electronic device may acquire an image through the camera and when determining whether the acquired image is included in a specific user s pre registered face image the first electronic device may transition into a specific mode e.g. a kids mode a guest mode or a user restriction mode .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device may determine that the first electronic device is being used on the basis of a user input detected through a touch panel or a button included in or interworking with the display . For example the first electronic device may include a touch screen determine an area where a touch is sensed through the touch screen and determine whether the first electronic device is used on the determination result. According to an embodiment reference area information for determining whether the first electronic device is used e.g. touch area information configured according to a manager s e.g. a parent s finger touch may be pre stored in a memory e.g. the memory of and the first electronic device may compare the area of a touch sensed through the touch screen e.g. an area according to a child s finger touch with the pre stored reference area to determine whether the first electronic device is used. According to an embodiment when an area where a touch is sensed e.g. an area where the child touches with his her finger is smaller than the reference area e.g. an area where the manager touches with his her finger the first electronic device may determine that the first electronic device is being used.

According to various embodiments the on state of the display is one of the conditions for determining the activated state of the first electronic device and the display must not necessarily be active during the determination of the activated state of the first electronic device .

The first electronic device may determine that the first electronic device is being used based on a combination of two or more of the various conditions. According to various embodiments when the electronic device is released from a standby state and operates in a specific mode the first electronic device may make the determination on the basis of various pieces of information acquired thereby without being limited to making the determination on the image acquired through the camera as described above. According to an embodiment the first electronic device may determine a user on the basis of information acquired through a biometric sensor such as a pulse detection sensor an iris recognition sensor or a fingerprint recognition sensor included in the first electronic device and may operate in a specific mode to correspond to the user.

According to the above description although it has been described that the notification message is transmitted to the second electronic device when the first electronic device is changed from the standby state to the activated state the present disclosure is not limited thereto and when it is identified that the user of the first electronic device is changed for example when it is identified that a specific user uses the first electronic device a notification message identifying an operation specified associated with the specific user may be transmitted to the second electronic device . In the following description the first electronic device may transmit a notification message in response a variety of conditions such as identifying the use of a specific user without restricting the condition for transmitting a notification message to a specific electronic device e.g. the second electronic device to the activation of the first electronic device from the standby state.

In addition although the above example is provided in the context of a kids mode any other suitable mode e.g. a guest mode or a user restriction mode may be used instead.

According to various embodiments in instances in which the first electronic device determines that the first electronic device is being used the first electronic device may transmit information e.g. a notification message for the situation in which the first electronic device is being used by at least one specific electronic device e.g. the second electronic device connected thereto through network communication. For example the first electronic device may transmit a notification message for informing that the use of the first electronic device has been initiated to the second electronic device in response to the detection of the changed situation of the first electronic device e.g. termination of a standby state and conversion to an activated state .

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may acquire information associated with an operation occurring after the termination of a standby state e.g. after the conversion to an activated state and transmit the acquired information to the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may monitor the manner in which a specific user e.g. a child is using the first electronic device and provide the monitoring results to the second electronic device . The monitoring may include monitoring by a user e.g. a child of the second electronic device information associated with content e.g. music videos photos being reproduced in the second electronic device information associated with applications being used in the second electronic device information associated with operating time of the applications being used in the second electronic device information associated with a total time spent by the user using the second electronic device captured screen images being used in the second electronic device information associated with a battery residual quantity of the second electronic device and the like. For example the first electronic device may acquire information associated with a called program or a running program a time interval during which the electronic device operates in an activated state and information such as changed e.g. moved or deleted program or content to create notification messages corresponding thereto. The first electronic device may transmit the created notification messages to the second electronic device .

In various embodiments the second electronic device may receive a notification message from the first electronic device and transmit a control message corresponding to the notification message or a control message corresponding to a user input to the first electronic device . The second electronic device may display a screen relating to the notification message in response to the receipt of the notification message. The first electronic device may receive the control message corresponding to the transmitted notification message from the second electronic device and perform an operation based on control information that is contained in the control message.

According to various embodiments when transmitting a message for informing that a standby state has been released or the first electronic device has been activated to the second electronic device the first electronic device may perform the transmission when a condition specified based on setting information of the first electronic device is satisfied. According to an embodiment the first electronic device may be configured to transmit the message for informing of the activated state in instances in which the distance from the second electronic device is a specified distance or more on the basis of location information.

For example when it is detected that the standby state has been released the first electronic device may acquire the location information of the first electronic device and the location information of the second electronic device . When it is determined that the distance from the second electronic device is larger than a distance specified in the setting information the first electronic device may transmit the message for informing the second electronic device of the activated state. Furthermore when it is determined that the distance from the second electronic device is smaller than the distance specified in the setting information the first electronic device may refrain from transmitting the message for informing the second electronic device of the activated state.

According to various embodiments it may be assumed that the first electronic device is held by a first user e.g. a child and exists in a first position in a first space e.g. a room so as to be adjacent to the first user and the second electronic device exists at a second position in a second space e.g. a living room or a kitchen outside the room which is different from the first position the first space while being worn by a second user e.g. a manager or parent . In such instances the first electronic device may sense the release of the standby state e.g. conversion to the activated state through a situation recognition operation under a set condition. For example the first electronic device may detect the release of the standby state through situation recognition such as detecting a touch input by the first user detecting a change in the posture or movement of the first electronic device detecting sounds of a predetermined magnitude or more around the first electronic device or the like.

When detecting the release of the standby state conversion to the activated state the first electronic device may take an image of the first user who has activated the first electronic device through a camera thereof e.g. a front camera or a rear camera thereof . For example the camera of the first electronic device may be turned on driven at the time of activation of the first electronic device or may always stand by in an on state according to the setup of the first electronic device .

The first electronic device may operate a kids mode on the basis of the acquired image of the first user and setting information configured in advance in the first electronic device e.g. a pre registered face image for the first user . For example the first electronic device may compare the acquired face image of the first user with the preset face image to determine whether the images are in agreement with each other. In various embodiments when the determination result shows that the images agree with each other the electronic device may execute a preset mode e.g. a kids mode . In various embodiments when the determination result shows that the images are different from another the electronic device may execute another set mode e.g. a guest mode .

In instances in which the first electronic device operates in the kids mode the first electronic device may acquire the position of the first electronic device and the position of the second electronic device . The first electronic device may determine calculate the distance between the first and second electronic devices on the basis of the acquired position information. According to an embodiment the first electronic device may identify the distance e.g. 5 meters between itself and the second electronic device with respect to the position of the first electronic device . The first electronic device may compare setting information e.g. preset reference distance information with the identified distance between the first and second electronic devices .

In various embodiments in cases in which the identified distance between the first and second electronic devices is larger than the distance configured in the first electronic device the first electronic device may transmit a notification of the activated state to the second electronic device . In various embodiments in cases in which the identified distance between the first and second electronic devices is smaller than the distance configured in the first electronic device the first electronic device may refrain from transmitting an indication of the activated state to the second electronic device . According to various embodiments in cases in which the standby state is released the first electronic device when determining whether to transmit the notification of the activated state to the second electronic device may make the determination on the basis of the signal strength e.g. RSSI of the network communication connected between the first and second electronic devices in addition to the distance information of the first and second electronic devices . In addition when transmitting the indication of the activated state to the second electronic device the first electronic device may also make a determination by combining the position information of the first and second electronic devices and the signal strength of the network communication.

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may transmit various occurring events or information thereon to at least one other electronic device e.g. the second electronic device connected to the first electronic device . For example the first electronic device may transmit information associated with running programs or applications in the first electronic device to the second electronic device at a specified time interval. Or the first electronic device when detecting an operation of executing or calling a new program may transmit information associated with the executed program to the second electronic device .

According to an embodiment in instances in which the first electronic device detects an attempt to access or purchase a program e.g. an app through an online store e.g. Play store or App store where a program may be sold on the basis of a user input the first electronic device may transmit a notification message for the corresponding contents to the second electronic device . In various embodiments the first electronic device may postpone accessing or purchasing the program until receiving an acknowledgement of the transmitted notification message from the second electronic device . The first electronic device may approve disapprove the access to or the purchase of the program on the basis of the acknowledgement message which is received from the second electronic device in response to the transmitted notification message.

According to various embodiments in the use of a website the first electronic device when detecting an attempt to access or use a charged service e.g. a charged real time streaming service for example when detecting an attempt to pay for a charged service may transmit a notification message associated with the corresponding contents to the second electronic device . The first electronic device may postpone using or submitting a payment for the charged service until receiving an acknowledgement of the transmitted notification message from the second electronic device . The first electronic device may approve disapprove the use of the charged service on the basis of the acknowledgement message which is received from the second electronic device in response to the transmitted notification message.

According to various embodiments in the transmission of the notification message to the second electronic device the first electronic device may provide a menu for determining whether to approve the attempt at accessing or making a payment for the use of the corresponding program or service. The second electronic device may create information for approving or disapproving the use of the program or service according to a user input received through the menu and may transmit the information to the first electronic device .

According to various embodiments in instances in which it is identified that a program has been used for a specified time or more e.g. a specific game program or a specific video has been used for an hour or more after being called the first electronic device may transmit the corresponding information e.g. the used program and or the time of use to the second electronic device .

In various embodiments the first electronic device is not limited to transmitting information associated with an event occurring in the first electronic device to the second electronic device as described above. For example the first electronic device may also receive information associated with an event occurring in the first electronic device from another electronic device e.g. another user s electronic device e.g. the third electronic device see in order to transmit the information to the second electronic device . A specific example of this will hereinafter be described with reference to .

Referring to the first electronic device may operate in a kids mode. In instances in which the first electronic device operates in the kids mode the first electronic device may transmit an event occurring therein and or information associated with the event to the second electronic device . For example when a user e.g. a child uses the first electronic device in the kids mode e.g. when the user views a video or plays a game the first electronic device may refrain from processing e.g. display or notify of an event e.g. a call a message an application notification etc. received from the outside but may perform a background processing operation to transmit e.g. forward the event to the second electronic device connected thereto.

According to an embodiment the first electronic device may receive a call connection request from the third electronic device of another user. When receiving the call connection request from the third electronic device the first electronic device may determine the current operating state thereof e.g. the kids mode . The first electronic device when operating in the kids mode may refrain from outputting a notification of the received call connection request and remain in a current operating state e.g. a state of displaying a screen and outputting a sound according to reproduction of a video or a state of displaying a screen and outputting a sound according to performance of a game . The first electronic device may perform a background processing operation on the received call connection request to connect or relay the request to the specified connected second electronic device while being maintained in the current state.

In various embodiments when connecting or relaying the call connection request received from the third electronic device to the second electronic device the first electronic device may refrain from sending a notification message for the reception of the call connection request to the user e.g. a child of the first electronic device e.g. may not display it on the display or may not output it with a ring tone or vibration but may perform a process such that the notification message is directly connected to the second electronic device . For example when operating in a specific mode e.g. the kids mode the first electronic device may refrain from outputting indications of various events e.g. a call a message an application notification etc. received from the outside e.g. the third electronic device of the another user through the first electronic device but may output the received events through the second electronic device in order to prevent the received events from being arbitrarily processed by a user who uses the first electronic device or prevent the first electronic device from being disturbed by the corresponding user. That is the first electronic device may process the received events or the notification messages in the background and transmit e.g. forward them to the second electronic device connected to the first electronic device .

The second electronic device may receive an event or a notification message for the event from the first electronic device and process an output e.g. an output based on display vibration sound etc. corresponding to the received event or notification message. The second electronic device may receive a user input corresponding to the event or notification message and transmit a control message corresponding to the received user input to the first electronic device .

The first electronic device after transmitting the received event or the notification message for the event to the second electronic device may receive a control message corresponding to the event or the notification message from the second electronic device . On the basis of the received control message the first electronic device may process the event received thereby e.g. may connect the event to the second electronic device or may maintain or terminate the relayed event .

For example referring to the first electronic device may receive an event e.g. a call connection request from the third electronic device while operating in the kids mode. The first electronic device may forward the event to the second electronic device connected thereto when receiving the event from the external device like the third electronic device while operating in the kids mode. That is the first electronic device may connect or relay the event e.g. the call connection request received from the outside e.g. the third electronic device to the second electronic device .

The second electronic device when receiving an event forwarded by the first electronic device may display a screen corresponding to the received event. For example the second electronic device may display a screen including information associated with a counterpart e.g. the third electronic device that has initiated the event e.g. a call connection request and a menu for processing e.g. approving or rejecting the event through a display thereof. In various embodiments the information associated with the counterpart may include for example sender information e.g. 010 123 4567 corresponding to the third electronic device or information e.g. a name or a nickname e.g. Susan relevant to the sender information in instances in which the sender information has been registered in the first or second electronic device or . According to an embodiment the second electronic device may output a vibration or sound corresponding to the event as well as a screen relating to the event on the display thereof.

The second electronic device after the output for the event may determine whether to approve or reject the event e.g. the call connection request received through the first electronic device on the basis of a user input e.g. an input through a call connection icon displayed on the display of the second electronic device . In some embodiments the second electronic device may transmit a control message for controlling the first electronic device to accept or reject the event e.g. the call connection request to the first electronic device in response to the user input.

According to various embodiments a case in which the second electronic device approves an event will be exemplified. The second electronic device may transmit a control message for making a request to connect a call connection of the third electronic device to the second electronic device to the first electronic device in response to a user input. The first electronic device may approve the request for the call connection received from the third electronic device and relay the call to the second electronic device on the basis of the control message approval of the request for the call connection received from the second electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may also display information on the event relayed to the second electronic device on the display thereof.

As described above according to the various embodiments the first electronic device may relay an event received from the outside e.g. the third electronic device of the another user to the second electronic device on the basis of a function e.g. an application processes etc. that is being executed by the first electronic device while operating in a specific mode. According to an embodiment the first electronic device when receiving a call connection request from the outside e.g. the third electronic device may acquire information associated with at least one function running in the first electronic device . For example the first electronic device may acquire information associated with a specific running function e.g. a music reproduction function a video reproduction function and or a game function . The specific function e.g. a function running in the first electronic device such as a music reproduction function a video reproduction function and or a game function may be configured in advance and may be a function that is specified to relay an event received by the first electronic device from the outside to at least one other electronic device e.g. the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments when receiving an event from the outside e.g. the third electronic device while performing a specific function operation the first electronic device may refrain from notifying of the event therethrough but may relay the event to another specified electronic device e.g. the second electronic device . In other words so as not to stop suspend or prevent the running function the first electronic device may refrain from outputting a notification of the event e.g. may not display the information associated with the call connection request on the display and or output it with a ring tone or may not output a notification message for the call connection request on the display . That is the first electronic device may relay the call connection request event in order to inform of the notification of the call connection request event from the third electronic device through the second electronic device . When a user responds to the notified event e.g. the notification of the call connection request through the second electronic device the user may make the call which the third electronic device has requested from the first electronic device e.g. may make a call with the user of the third electronic device through the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments the function of relaying or forwarding an event received from the outside e.g. an external event as described above may be activated or deactivated by the second electronic device connected to the first electronic device . According to various embodiments when the first electronic device is released from the connection with the second electronic device or the first electronic device is beyond the control range of the second electronic device the first electronic device may perform a processing operation e.g. various notifications for an external event.

Referring to may represent an example of an operation in which the electronic device operates in the same way as the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone a tablet PC etc. as described above to provide an event received sensed from the outside to the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device connected thereto.

In operation a connection may be established between two electronic devices e.g. a wearable device and a smart phone . For example the first and second electronic devices may be connected to paired with each other by way of Bluetooth communication.

In operations and the electronic device may check the state thereof to determine whether the electronic device has been activated. In various embodiments the electronic device may determine a change in the activation thereof. In various embodiments the activation of the electronic device may be determined by checking a specific event occurring in the electronic device for example by checking the time when the electronic device is changed from a suspended state to a resume state and a lock setting is unlocked through an input of a pattern lock a PIN code value etc. In various embodiments when receiving a specific event for example an application notification a call a message etc. from the outside the electronic device may determine that the electronic device has been changed to an activated state.

In various embodiments prior to operations and the electronic device may further perform an operation of sensing determining a state where a counterpart electronic device connected thereto is worn. For example in instances in which the second electronic device is paired with the first electronic device the first electronic device may identify whether the second electronic device is worn by a user e.g. a manager or parent . In various embodiments whether the second electronic device is worn may be sensed by information exchange between the first and second electronic devices. According to various embodiments the second electronic device may determine whether the second electronic device is worn based on various sensors e.g. an acceleration sensor a heart rate sensor etc. and may provide information corresponding to that to the first electronic device. According to an embodiment in instances in which a user moves the second electronic device may determine a state in which the second electronic device is worn by using a change in an acceleration sensor value. According to an embodiment in instances in which the user does not move the second electronic device may determine that the second electronic device is worn if a heart rate is sensed through a heart rate sensor. In various embodiments a sensor that can identify the state of a watch strap may be provided at the second electronic device or the watch strap thereof to sense the locked or unlocked state of the watch strap and determine whether the second electronic device is worn in correspondence to that.

When it is determined in operation that the electronic device is not activated the electronic device may return to operation to perform the following operations.

When it is determined in operation that the electronic device is activated the electronic device may detect whether the two electronic devices are being use by the same user in operation .

For example when sensing a change in the activation of the electronic device the electronic device e.g. the second electronic device may determine whether the user of the counterpart electronic device and the user of the electronic device are identical to each other. In various embodiments whether the users are identical to each other may be determined using the distance according to the positions where the electronic devices are used. According to an embodiment the distance may be determined using an RSSI value of Bluetooth the level of ultrasonic waves or a change in the level. According to an embodiment in instances in which the RSSI level of Bluetooth is a threshold value or higher or where it rapidly varies from a lower value to a higher value it may be determined that the users of the first and second electronic devices are identical to each other. According to various embodiments the operation may be performed by more accurately identifying the distance between the electronic devices through the substitution or combination of another communication e.g. 3G LTE GPS Wi FI Zigbee ultrasonic waves etc. in addition to Bluetooth.

In various embodiments if a user setting is already made for a specific mode such as a kids mode or a guest mode in the electronic device or if entrance to a specific mode is configured by the counterpart electronic device it may be determined that the user of the first electronic device and the user of the second electronic device differ from each other.

When it is determined in operation that the electronic devices are being used by the same user the electronic device may control the performance of an operation on the basis of a set mode e.g. a kids mode or a guest mode or a normal mode in operation .

When it is determined in operation that the users of the electronic devices differ from each other the electronic device may provide an event occurring therein to the connected counterpart electronic device in operation . For example the electronic device may refrain from outputting a notification of an event e.g. a call a message an application notification etc. received from the outside for example may not display it or may not output it with a ring tone or vibration and forward the received event to the connected counterpart electronic device. Or the electronic device may refrain from notifying the connected counterpart electronic device of an event using the electronic device or a change of state . According to an embodiment when it is determined that the user of the electronic device and the user of the counterpart electronic device are different the electronic device may provide e.g. indirectly notify various events occurring in the electronic device only to the user of the connected counterpart electronic device or may notify the user of the counterpart electronic device that another user uses the electronic device. That is according to the various embodiments information which the electronic device will provide may be preferentially offered to the connected counterpart electronic device or a function in the electronic device may be restricted.

According to various embodiments in instances in which the first electronic device senses that the first electronic device is used in a standby state the first electronic device may transmit information associated with the use of the first electronic device to the second electronic device connected thereto. In instances in which the first electronic device receives a message corresponding to the transmitted information from the second electronic device the first electronic device may control itself e.g. may change the mode thereof according to the received message.

According to an embodiment in the standby state the first electronic device may detect that the display thereof is turned on e.g. enters an activated state . When detecting the entrance to the activated state the first electronic device may transmit an indication to that effect to the second electronic device . According to an embodiment when detecting that the first electronic device is changed from the standby state to the activated state the first electronic device may acquire user information associated with a user that uses the first electronic device . For example the first electronic device may turn on the display or a button e.g. a touch screen or button including a fingerprint sensor in response to the detection of the change of state and acquire user information e.g. fingerprint information from an input means e.g. a finger for entering an input on the display . Alternatively the first electronic device may turn on a camera thereof in response to the detection of the change of state and take a photo of a user of the first electronic device through the camera to acquire user information e.g. the user s face image . The first electronic device may identify a specific user on the basis of the acquired user information e.g. may determine whether the acquired user information is consistent with preset information through a comparison and may determine whether a specific mode e.g. a kids mode that is associated with the identified user is supported. When it is determined that the specific mode for the corresponding user has been specified the first electronic device may transmit to the second electronic device a notification message requesting the second electronic device to determine whether to change the first electronic device to the specific mode.

The second electronic device may provide a menu for controlling the first electronic device e.g. may display the menu on a display thereof on the basis of the information received from the first electronic device . For example the second electronic device may display a menu to change the first electronic device to the specific mode e.g. a kids mode . The second electronic device may display a menu for transitioning the first electronic device to a locked state or a security state . While receiving the information from the first electronic device the second electronic device may count a set time e.g. T seconds where T is a natural number during which a user e.g. a user of the second electronic device is able to identify the received information and may display an operating screen corresponding to that. For example the second electronic device after receiving the information from the activated first electronic device may determine whether a specific input e.g. a touch on the menu or the menu for a control corresponding to the received information is detected within the specified time e.g. T seconds . After the specified time passes the second electronic device may display for example a menu for controlling to permit the performance of a program executed in the first electronic device . The second electronic device may detect a user input on the basis of the menu provided or in instances in which no user input is detected for the specified time the second electronic device may transmit the corresponding control message to the first electronic device .

In various embodiments the second electronic device may call the menu for controlling the first electronic device on the basis of the notification message received from the first electronic device . However the various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited thereto and the second electronic device may also call the menu on the basis of for example a user input that is entered into the second electronic device . In addition the first electronic device may control the operation thereof on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device whether the first electronic device transmits the notification message to the second electronic device .

The first electronic device may control the operation thereof on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device . For example in instances in which the message received from the second electronic device is for changing the first electronic device to a specific mode e.g. a kids mode the first electronic device may change to the kids mode. The first electronic device may restrict a predetermined function from being used in response to the change to the kids mode.

According to various embodiments in instances in which the first electronic device detects that the restricted function is already executed at the time of the change to the kids mode the first electronic device may terminate the execution of the restricted function. The first electronic device when terminating the use of the restricted function may determine whether there is a change in the data of the restricted function. According to an embodiment in instances in which the first electronic device identifies the data change of the restricted function e.g. deletion of data a change in home screen settings a change in application setting values a change in arrangement of icons etc. the first electronic device may check the time point prior to the change of the restricted function e.g. the time of the execution of the restricted function . The first electronic device may restore the data changed by the user of the first electronic device to data prior to the change of the restricted function on the basis of the determination.

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may execute a specified program when changing to a kids mode according to the control message received from the second electronic device . According to various embodiments the first electronic device may perform an operation of backing up the first electronic device when changing the mode thereof e.g. changing to the kids mode on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device . According to various embodiments the first electronic device may back up information such as a user interface of the display installed programs of the first electronic device or data included in the memory of the first electronic device .

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may recover or restore the first electronic device to a previous state on the basis of the backup data when terminating the kids mode. The first electronic device may determine whether to perform a backup on the basis of setting information or a backup environment such as a backup level how much data is backed up when the mode thereof is changed. The first electronic device may apply backup environments distinguished depending on specific modes. The first electronic device may perform a backup or determine whether to perform a backup on the basis of the backup environments configured according to the specific modes. Or the first electronic device may also perform a backup or determine whether to perform a backup on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may transmit receive data to from the second electronic device when performing a specific mode e.g. a kids mode . In the data transmission reception with the second electronic device the first electronic device may transmit receive at least one of voice data audio data and video data which are entered by a user in real time or may transmit receive data stored in the first or second electronic device or .

According to an embodiment the second electronic device may transmit a control message for controlling activation execution of a video call function or a voice call function of the first electronic device to the first electronic device on the basis of a user input entered into the second electronic device . Based on the control message the first electronic device may activate the video call function or the voice call function with the second electronic device and transmit an acknowledgement message for accepting a video call request or a voice call request to the second electronic device . In various embodiments the first electronic device may activate the corresponding function on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device . Or according to various embodiments the first electronic device may automatically activate the corresponding function on the basis of setting information thereof e.g. detecting a corresponding condition according to a sensing operation for the execution of the corresponding function and make a notification or request to the second electronic device . According to an embodiment in instances in which it is detected that the first electronic device is used by a specific user the first electronic device may request a video or voice call connection with the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments the first and second electronic devices may establish a video or voice call connection in correspondence with a specific communication method configured established therebetween. For example the first electronic device when connecting a video or voice call with the second electronic device may determine a present communication method e.g. Bluetooth communication or Wi Fi communication by which the connection with the second electronic device is established. In instances in which it is determined that the connection between the first and second electronic devices has not been established through a preset communication method e.g. Bluetooth communication or Wi Fi communication the first electronic device may connect a video or voice call through the preset communication method e.g. Bluetooth communication Wi Fi communication or cellular communication . In instances in which it is identified that the connection between the first and second electronic devices has been established through the preset communication method the first electronic device may perform an operation of connecting a video or voice call with the second electronic device through the currently established communication method e.g. Bluetooth communication or Wi Fi communication .

According to various embodiments in instances in which the first electronic device fails to connect with the second electronic device through a specified communication e.g. Bluetooth communication or Wi Fi communication the first electronic device may refrain from connecting a video or voice call in real time but may transmit receive stored video or voice data to from the second electronic device at a predetermined time and or predetermined time intervals. For example the first electronic device may also use a function or program such as push to talk PTT when transmitting receiving call data to from the second electronic device . An example of a specific operation for the PTT function in the various embodiments will be described below with reference to .

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may output a voice and or video corresponding to the control message on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device . For example in instances in which the first electronic device receives a termination message entered through the second electronic device the first electronic device may output a specified message such as You have used it for much too long. in response to the termination message. In addition the first electronic device may terminate a running program therein and change to a standby mode in response to the termination message.

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may receive a control message from the second electronic device while having performed a specific function e.g. a video reproduction function for a specified time or more. Here the control message may be a control message for outputting a specified interface on the display of the first electronic device or may be a control message for outputting specific audio through a speaker of the first electronic device . The first electronic device may acquire information associated with a running function therein after performing an operation corresponding to the control message. In instances in which there is no change in the operating state of the running function e.g. where the reproduction of a video is not terminated the first electronic device may repetitively perform the operation corresponding to the control message.

In the first electronic device may be a device e.g. a wearable device such as a smart watch that can be worn on a user s body part. The first electronic device may acquire biometric information of a user wearing the first electronic device while operating in a specific mode e.g. a kids mode by identifying the use of a specific user. According to an embodiment the first electronic device may acquire the user s biometric information through a built in sensor e.g. the sensor module including at least one sensor . For example first electronic device may measure the heart rate of the user wearing the first electronic device on the basis of a heart rate measurement sensor and may sense a case e.g. cardiac arrest where the user s heart rate is beyond a specified range e.g. a numerical value e.g. a reference value corresponding to a normal range of a preset heart rate database . In instances in which the user s heart rate is beyond a normal range the first electronic device may transmit the user s biometric information e.g. a cardiac arrest state a body temperature etc. to the second electronic device .

In various embodiments the first electronic device may transmit the user s biometric information along with the position information of the first electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may identify the position thereof through a position identification sensor e.g. the GPS module included therein and may create position information corresponding to the identified position to transmit the position information along with the biometric information.

In various embodiments the first electronic device may output a notification message for a situation that has occurred e.g. an emergency situation . In addition for the situation that has occurred the first electronic device may connect a voice or video call to a contact e.g. the second electronic device etc. specified in advance in an emergency service.

According to various embodiments various sensors e.g. a heart rate measurement sensor for acquiring the user s biometric information may not be included in the first electronic device but may be worn on the user s body part e.g. near the heart . In this case the heart rate measurement sensor may transmit the user s measured biometric information e.g. heart rate information to the first electronic device through wireless communication e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi NFC etc. . The first electronic device may determine whether the user is in an emergency situation on the basis of the biometric information received from the heart rate measurement sensor . Based on the determination result the first electronic device may notify the second electronic device of the user s emergency through at least some of the various methods described above.

According to various embodiments in response to the notification from the first electronic device the second electronic device may transmit control information which is configured for the control of the first electronic device according to a user input or automatically. According to an embodiment the second electronic device may transmit to the first electronic device control information for executing an electric shock function by the first electronic device or control information for controlling a defibrillation function of the heart rate measurement sensor connected to the first electronic device . The first electronic device may control the execution of an operation corresponding to the control information received from the second electronic device . For example the first electronic device may expose the user to an electric shock or electric signal on the basis of the received control information. Alternatively the first electronic device may request the heart rate measurement sensor to perform a defibrillation function in instances in which the heart rate measurement sensor is capable of performing the defibrillation function.

According to various embodiments the second electronic device may notify a user of the second electronic device of various notifications corresponding to a notification message received from the first electronic device . According to an embodiment the second electronic device may output display various pieces of notification information associated with the emergency situation of the first electronic device as exemplified by reference numeral on the basis of the received notification message.

According to various embodiments the first electronic device may identify information associated with the distance between the first and second electronic devices while operating in a specific mode e.g. a missing child prevention mode by identifying the use of a specific user. For example the first electronic device may identify information associated with the distance from the second electronic device when detecting the movement thereof. In instances in which it is detected that the first electronic device is separated by a specified distance or more from the second electronic device the first electronic device may identify the movement thereof and transmit it to the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments in the identification of the movement of the first electronic device the first electronic device may transmit to the second electronic device various pieces of information as movement information thereof such as the moving direction and speed of the first electronic device a moving direction relative to the second electronic device the distance from the second electronic device and the position information of the first electronic device through the GPS module . The first electronic device may output a notification message through the display thereof on the basis of the movement information of the first electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may output a specified message such as This child is looking for parents as the notification message and may also output a message input transferred through the second electronic device . The second electronic device may output feedback corresponding to the notification message of the first electronic device . According to an embodiment the second electronic device may display a specified message e.g. distance information direction information position information etc. such as The child is moving in the A direction in response to the movement information of the first electronic device and may also additionally process a vibration or sound output in parallel.

Referring to in operation the first electronic device may sense a state in which the first electronic device is being used on the basis of an operation performed thereby. According to an embodiment the specified use of the first electronic device may correspond to a case where the first electronic device changes from a standby state e.g. the off state of the display to an activated state e.g. the on state of the display . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may detect a situation activated state where the first electronic device is being used by a user on the basis of information acquired through at least one sensor included therein. For example the first electronic device may detect a situation in which the first electronic device is being used on the basis of information detected through a sensor such as the gyro sensor B or the acceleration sensor E for sensing a motion of the first electronic device in the on state of the display . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may detect a situation where the first electronic device is being used on the basis of information acquired through the grip sensor F and or the biometric sensor I with which a user s body part makes contact without being limited to determining the situation where the first electronic device is being used on the basis of the motion information of the first electronic device acquired through the gyro sensor B and or the acceleration sensor E. According to an embodiment in instances in which the first electronic device includes a camera e.g. the camera module if a user s face is detected through the camera the first electronic device may detect a situation in which the first electronic device is being used. Through at least one of the aforementioned methods the first electronic device may detect a situation in which the first electronic device is being used or starts to be used by a specified user.

In operation the first electronic device may transmit a notification message e.g. situation information for the use of the first electronic device to a specific electronic device e.g. the second electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may be configured to transmit the notification message to the second electronic device connected thereto through Bluetooth or Wi Fi communication when the use of the first electronic device is sensed. The first electronic device may transmit to the second electronic device at least one of information associated with an executed or running program information associated with time during which the program has been used information associated with a user who uses the program e.g. a user profile in instances in which the user is specified to the first electronic device and information for making a request for determining whether to execute a specific mode e.g. a kids mode corresponding to the specified user.

In operation the first electronic device may receive a control message from the second electronic device to which the first electronic device has transmitted the notification message for the operating situation thereof. The first electronic device may control the operation thereof on the basis of the received control message. According to an embodiment the control message received from the second electronic device may include a control message that is generated based on a user input detected through the second electronic device on the basis of the notification message transmitted by the first electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may control the operation thereof on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may change to a specific mode on the basis of the received control message. For example the first electronic device may transmit to the second electronic device information as to whether to enter into kids mode in correspondence with the user detected through operation and may receive the control message for executing the kids mode from the second electronic device through operation . The first electronic device may change to the kids mode in response to the control message. The first electronic device when changing to the kids mode may identify a restricted program on the basis of the changed mode and in instances in which the restricted program is being executed the first electronic device may terminate the corresponding program. When changing the mode the first electronic device may also back up the situation information thereof immediately before the mode change on the basis of setting information.

Referring to in operation the first electronic device may change the operating state e.g. mode thereof on the basis of a control message or a control command received from a specific electronic device e.g. the second electronic device to perform the corresponding operation mode . The operation performed by the first electronic device may be the same as or similar to the operation of .

In operation the first electronic device may receive a control message from the second electronic device in the mode e.g. a kids mode executed based on operation . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may receive a control message for terminating the running mode from the second electronic device . The control message for terminating the running mode may include a message for changing e.g. terminating the running mode which is received from the second electronic device after the first electronic device changes the operating state thereof e.g. changes to the kids mode on the basis of the control message e.g. the control message for the mode change previously received from the second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may control the operation thereof on the basis of the received control message. According to an embodiment the first electronic device may terminate the specific mode e.g. a kids mode which is being executed in the first electronic device on the basis of the received control message. The first electronic device when terminating the running mode may change to a general mode e.g. a basic mode a standby mode or another specific configured requested mode which is configured for the first electronic device . In instances in which it is identified that backup data at the time of the execution of the kids mode exists the first electronic device may recover itself on the basis of the corresponding backup data.

Referring to in operation the first electronic device may detect the use of the first electronic device on the basis of an operation performed thereby and transmit a notification message corresponding to the detection to a specific electronic device e.g. the second electronic device . The second electronic device may sense the state in which the first electronic device is being used on the basis of the received notification message. According to various embodiments the operation of determining the state where the first electronic device is being used may be the same as or similar to the operation of .

In operation the second electronic device may determine whether to configure a specific mode for the first electronic device on the basis of the received notification message. For example the second electronic device may determine whether to transmit a control message for changing the first electronic device to the specific mode. According to an embodiment the second electronic device may provide a menu for determining a controllable operation of the first electronic device e.g. display the menu on the display of the second electronic device on the basis of the received notification message. The second electronic device may determine whether to change the first electronic device to the specific mode e.g. a kids mode on the basis of the menu provided. In the determination of the mode change the second electronic device may also terminate a running program in the first electronic device and determine to change the first electronic device to a standby state without being limited to controlling the first electronic device to operate in the specific mode.

In operation when requesting the first electronic device to operate in the specific mode the second electronic device may transmit a control message for making a request for backing up the current state e.g. situation information of the first electronic device together. According to an embodiment the second electronic device when transmitting the control message may transmit a control message for requesting the first electronic device to back up the situation information together on the basis of a user input detected by the second electronic device . In instances in which the first electronic device receives the control message for requesting itself to operate in the specific mode the first electronic device may change to the specific mode and may also perform a backup operation thereof on the basis of the control message or setting information while changing to the specific mode.

In operation the second electronic device may determine whether a user input is detected for terminating the specific mode e.g. a kids mode running in the first electronic device . According to an embodiment the second electronic device may detect a user input for controlling the first electronic device to terminate the running kids mode and operate in the basic mode configured for the first electronic device . Alternatively the second electronic device may detect a user input for controlling the first electronic device to terminate the running kids mode and change to the standby mode. According to various embodiments the second electronic device may provide information associated with various modes that the first electronic device may provide without being limited to controlling the first electronic device to terminate the specific mode e.g. a kids mode running in the first electronic device and operate in the configured basic mode. In addition the second electronic device may also provide information in order to select and control a specific program of the first electronic device without being limited to providing information associated with a specified mode which the first electronic device may execute.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit a control message for making a request for terminating the specific mode running in the first electronic device to the first electronic device . According to various embodiments when transmitting the control message the second electronic device may transmit a control message for requesting the recovery of the first electronic device together on the basis of the data which was backed up at the time of the execution of the specific mode. When performing the operation of recovering the first electronic device on the basis of the backup data the first electronic device may perform the operation on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device .

Alternatively the first electronic device may also automatically perform the recovery operation at the time of the termination of the specific mode in the first electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may compare situation information thereof with the situation information at the time of the backup of the first electronic device when terminating the specific mode running therein on the basis of the control message received from the second electronic device . When the comparison result shows that a specified amount or more of data has been changed or the specified situation information of the first electronic device e.g. a user interface the setting information of the first electronic device etc. has been changed the first electronic device performs the recovery operation thereof.

According to various embodiments the operation of may be performed in the situation where the first electronic device has received a control message from the second electronic device and a specific mode has been executed in response to the control message. For example operation may be performed in the situation where an operation the same as or similar to operation of or operation of has been performed.

Referring to in operation the first electronic device may identify the communication quality of the second electronic device connected thereto through network communication. According to an embodiment the first electronic device may identify the quality of the network communication with the second electronic device in order to identify an environment for transmitting receiving data e.g. video data for a video call and or voice data for a voice call to from the second electronic device . The first electronic device may identify the communication quality of a communication method that is specified for data transmission reception with the second electronic device . When it is determined that the communication quality is higher than a specified value e.g. the RSSI reference value the first electronic device may perform operation of transmitting receiving real time data e.g. performing a real time video call or a real time voice call . In contrast when it is determined that the communication quality is lower than the specified value the first electronic device may perform operation of transmitting receiving restricted data.

Referring to operation the first electronic device may transmit receive e.g. bilaterally communicate the real time video call data and or the real time voice call data through a communication method satisfying the specified value or more among network communication methods through which the first electronic device is connected to the second electronic device . In instances in which it is determined that the quality of the communication method used for data transmission reception varies to a lower value than the specified value the first electronic device may transmit receive the real time video call data and or the real time voice call data to from the second electronic device through a communication method having a higher quality than the specified value among the other communication methods through which the first electronic device is connected to the second electronic device . The first electronic device may perform operation in instances in which a communication method satisfying the specified value cannot be determined from the various communication methods for the connection with the second electronic device in the aforementioned operation.

Referring to operation the first electronic device may transmit receive restricted video call data and or restricted voice call data through the network communication method through which the first electronic device is connected to the second electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may transmit receive the data through a restricted method of receiving data after the completion of data transmission or transmitting data after the completion of data reception instead of a real time method of simultaneously transmitting and receiving data.

Referring to in operation the first electronic device may determine an abnormal situation of a user of the first electronic device through at least one sensor e.g. the sensor module or a position measurement device e.g. the GPS module . According to an embodiment the first electronic device may determine that the user of the first electronic device is placed in an abnormal situation in instances in which the position measurement device e.g. the GPS module detects that the first electronic device moves a specified distance or more in a direction away from the second electronic device . Alternatively the first electronic device may determine the user s abnormal situation e.g. an emergency situation such as cardiac arrest or difficulty in breathing through a device capable of acquiring the user s biometric information while being worn on the user s body part such as a biometric sensor e.g. the biometric sensor I of of the first electronic device or a heart rate measurement sensor e.g. the heart rate measurement sensor of connected e.g. connected through wireless communication to the first electronic device . The first electronic device may perform operation when determining that the user is placed in an abnormal situation and may consistently or periodically monitor the user s situation if not so.

Referring to operation the first electronic device may notify the second electronic device of the user s monitored abnormal situation. For example the first electronic device may acquire various pieces of information capable of representing the state of the user such as the position information e.g. coordinates of the first electronic device the user s biometric information the motion information of the first electronic device and the like and may transmit the acquired information to the second electronic device .

According to an embodiment in instances in which the first electronic device is a specified distance e.g. a preset reference distance or more away from the second electronic device the first electronic device may create the motion information thereof on the basis of various pieces of information such as the travel direction and speed of the first electronic device the travel direction relative to the second electronic device the distance from the second electronic device and the position information of the first electronic device . The first electronic device may transmit the created motion information to the second electronic device .

According to an embodiment in instances in which the user s situation information e.g. a heart rate is beyond a preset normal range the first electronic device may transmit the user s biometric information e.g. a cardiac arrest state a body temperature etc. to the second electronic device . The first electronic device may transmit the user s biometric information along with the position information of the first electronic device . The first electronic device may output a notification message for the situation that has occurred e.g. emergency situation and may also make a voice call and or a video call to a contact e.g. or the second electronic device specified for an emergency service. The first electronic device may also transmit the user s biometric information and position information to the emergency service provider.

As described above according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone and the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device may interwork with each other within a predetermined range in which communication therebetween is possible and one of them can control the other through the interworking therebetween. According to various embodiments the first or second electronic device when being used e.g. held or worn by a manager e.g. a parent may operate as a parent terminal or a mother terminal that can control or manage the other electronic device. According to various embodiments the first or second electronic device when being used e.g. held or worn by another user e.g. a child other than the manager may operate as a child terminal that is controlled or managed by the other electronic device. For example in various embodiments of the present disclosure electronic devices interworking with each other may operate in a parent child structure.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in instances in which a manager e.g. a parent wears the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device and a user e.g. a child operates the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone the first electronic device may offer notify various pieces of information associated with the use of the first electronic device to the second electronic device.

According to an embodiment when the child attempts to use or operate the first electronic device in a state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the first electronic device may sense the change of state thereof e.g. the use of the first electronic device and provide information associated with that e.g. situation information to the second electronic device. For example the first electronic device may sense the motion thereof through an acceleration sensor a gravity sensor or the like. The first electronic device may sense the child s face e.g. a pre registered face image of the child through a front camera thereof. The first electronic device may sense a touch input on a touch screen the touch area of which is smaller than that of the manager s parent s finger. The first electronic device may sense a change in signal strength information e.g. RSSI of the connected communication e.g. Bluetooth communication . For example the first electronic device may sense a change in signal strength information in instances in which the first electronic device moves further away from the second electronic device or is maintained in the current state and may sense the movement thereof or a state in which the first electronic device is held in a user s hand. The first electronic device may create information e.g. a notification message corresponding to a sensed event and provide the information according to the event to the second electronic device.

According to an embodiment in the state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the first electronic device may monitor a state in which the user e.g. a child uses the first electronic device and provide the monitoring result to the second electronic device. For example the first electronic device may monitor information associated with content e.g. music videos photos being reproduced through the first electronic device information associated with applications being used in the first electronic device information associated with the operating time of the applications information associated with a total time spent by the user using the first electronic device captured screen images being used in the first electronic device information associated with a battery residual quantity of the first electronic device and the like and may provide the monitored information to the second electronic device.

According to an embodiment in the state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the first electronic device may provide an indirect notification function when the user e.g. a child uses the first electronic device. For example in instances in which the first electronic device is in a kids mode the user of the first electronic device may want to continue to view a video or use an application without any disturbance to his her current action. In this case in various embodiments the first electronic device may refrain from providing a notification e.g. display sound or vibration output for an external event such as a call a message an application notification or the like which may occur through the first electronic device. The first electronic device may refrain from outputting the external event and may transfer forward the external event to the second electronic device connected thereto such that the second electronic device outputs a notification corresponding to the external event. In various embodiments the aforementioned operation for the external event may be on off controlled by the second electronic device. Furthermore in instances in which the first electronic device is beyond a controllable range of the second electronic device the first electronic device may output the notification for the external event.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in instances in which the manager wears the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device and the user e.g. a child operates the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone the second electronic device may provide a remote control function over the first electronic device.

According to an embodiment in the state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the manager e.g. a parent may control the initiation and termination of various functions e.g. a kids mode a missing child prevention mode etc. of the first electronic device using the second electronic device. For example when the manager identifies through the second electronic device a notification that the other user e.g. a child uses the manager s first electronic device the manager may change his her first electronic device from a general mode to a kids mode through a remote control using the second electronic device. In various embodiments in instances in which a specific mode e.g. a kids mode of the first electronic device is configured by the second electronic device the set specific mode may be released only by the second electronic device or the first electronic device may release the set specific mode for the first electronic device using manager authentication such as fingerprint recognition a password or the like.

According to an embodiment in the state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the manager e.g. a parent may control input output functions of the first electronic device using the second electronic device. For example by using the second electronic device the manager may remotely restrict an error or a setup change that may be caused by the other user e.g. a child operating the first electronic device. That is the manager may restrict an input function of the first electronic device for example an input through a touch screen a button or the like. Furthermore by using the second electronic device the manager may control an output function in order to restrict the use of the first electronic device which is being used by the other user e.g. a child . For example in response to the manager s input the second electronic device may terminate various types of content such as applications music videos and digital broadcasts which are being executed in the first electronic device and may restrict display or sound outputs corresponding to the various types of content. That is the second electronic device may set the first electronic device not to be operated.

According to an embodiment in the state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the manager e.g. a parent may control a recovery function of the first electronic device using the second electronic device. For example in a state where a specific mode e.g. a kids mode for restricting functions is not configured for the first electronic device setting values such as home screen e.g. a wallpaper setting e.g. icon arrangement folder information etc. or application setting e.g. application setting information may be modified by the other user e.g. a child who is operating the first electronic device. In various embodiments the first electronic device may detect whether the setting values are modified and transmit information associated with the modification e.g. the operating state of the first electronic device to the second electronic device to notify it to the manager. The manager may identify the change in the setting values of the first electronic device e.g. the operating state of the first electronic device through the second electronic device. The second electronic device may transmit a control command to back up the modified items of the first electronic device in response to the manager s input and the first electronic device may back the first electronic device up to the setting values prior to the modification in response to the control command of the second electronic device. For example the first electronic device may recover the settings thereof to the existing kids mode setting state or the state before the settings are modified. In various embodiments the first electronic device may sense the use of the first electronic device periodically back up store and manage the current state information for recovery of the first electronic device and recover the first electronic device on the basis of the backup state information.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in instances in which the manager wears the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device and the user e.g. a child operates the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone a push to talk PTT e.g. a voice or video call function may be provided.

According to an embodiment voice or video information exchange using Bluetooth BT connection may be provided between the first and second electronic devices. For example in instances in which the BT connection may be made between the first and second electronic devices and data e.g. voice and video data is actively transmitted and received the first and second electronic devices may exchange the voice and video information using the PTT function. According to an embodiment it may be assumed that the manager e.g. a parent uses the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device and the user e.g. a child operates the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone . In this case the manager may transfer the voice and video information to the child using the PTT function or the child may transfer the voice and video information to the manager using the PTT function.

According to an embodiment in instances in which the PTT function using the BT connection between the first and second electronic devices is impossible but the second electronic device may directly perform voice data communication voice or video information exchange may be made between the first and second electronic devices. For example in instances in which the second electronic device supports voice data communication and where data is actively transmitted and received although the BT connection between the first and second electronic devices is impossible the first and second electronic devices may exchange voice and video information using the PTT function. According to an embodiment it may be assumed that the manager e.g. a parent uses the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device and the user e.g. a child operates the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone . In this case even though there is no BT connection the second electronic device may make voice data communication using a SIM card embedded therein. The manager may transfer the voice or video information to the child who uses the first electronic device through the PTT function using the second electronic device and vice versa.

According to an embodiment although a BT connection may be made between the first and second electronic devices voice and video information may not be actively exchanged or alternate voice video data may be transferred using signals in response to a user selection instead of the voice and video information exchange. For example in instances in which voice and video data is not actively transferred between the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone and the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device if the second electronic device transmits a signal e.g. text information the first electronic device may output reproduce voice or video data relevant to the corresponding signal e.g. text information for example may display it on a screen or may output it with a sound . In various embodiments the first and second electronic devices may commonly store data corresponding to the signal and the first or second electronic device may reproduce the data by executing a function in response to the signal. For example the reproduction may be made using text to speech TTS or recorded data. Furthermore according to an embodiment even when data is actively transmitted and received if the second electronic device transmits a signal according to a user selection the first electronic device may reproduce voice or video data relevant to the corresponding signal which is pre stored in the first electronic device.

For example when the manager e.g. a parent uses the second electronic device e.g. a smart phone and the user e.g. a child uses the first electronic device e.g. a wearable device the second electronic device may transmit a specific signal to the first electronic device in response to the manager s input and the first electronic device may output voice or video information pre stored therein to the user in response to the received signal and vice versa. According to an embodiment while the user e.g. a child uses the first electronic device of the manager e.g. a parent the manager may transmit signal corresponding to an alert message regarding the use of the first electronic device through the second electronic device to the first electronic device. The first electronic device when receiving signal may output an alert message e.g. Please stop viewing videos. with the manager s pre stored voice corresponding to the received signal . According to another embodiment when the second electronic device transmits signal to the first electronic device the first electronic device may output an alert message e.g. Do not take a closer look at it. Please look at it from a distance. with the manager s pre stored voice or image corresponding to the received signal .

The operation of managing the PTT function according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above will be described below with reference to .

Referring to in operation the electronic device e.g. the first or second electronic device may execute a PTT function in response to an input of a user e.g. manager or child .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether a BT connection may be established in response to the execution of the PTT function.

When it is determined in operation that the BT connection may be established the electronic device may in operation determine whether data is actively transmitted and received. For example the electronic device may determine the signal strength of the BT connection through which the electronic device is connected to a counterpart electronic device and may determine whether the determined signal strength is a preset reference value or more.

When it is determined in operation that data is actively transmitted and received the electronic device may transmit to the counterpart electronic device at least one piece of data corresponding to a user input among voice and video data in operation .

In operation the electronic device may output data through a relevant user interface by performing a PTT screen change subsequent to or in parallel with the data transmission. For example the electronic device may display the user interface corresponding to the PTT function through the display and may reproduce data received from the counterpart electronic device to display an image of a counterpart electronic device user. Furthermore the electronic device may reproduce the data received from the counterpart electronic device to output it with a voice of the counterpart electronic device user. That is the electronic device may output at least one of the voice and video data according to the execution of the PTT function.

In operation the electronic device may change to a PTT ready screen when completely reproducing the transmitted or received data. When changing to the PTT ready screen the electronic device may proceed to operation to periodically check the data transmission reception state or may proceed to operation to terminate the PTT function in response to a user input or under the control of the counterpart electronic device.

When it is determined in operation that data is inactively transmitted and received or in response to a user selection the electronic device may transmit a signal to the counterpart electronic device in operation . For example the electronic device may receive an input of a selected signal to be transmitted to the counterpart electronic device or a text input and transmit the selected signal or the text input or a signal corresponding to the text to the counterpart electronic device.

In operation the electronic device may output data through a relevant user interface by performing a PTT screen change subsequent to or in parallel with the selective transmission of the signal. For example the electronic device may display the user interface corresponding to the PTT function through the display and may reproduce and output at least one of pre stored voice and video data corresponding to the signal received from the counterpart electronic device. According to an embodiment the electronic device may display a pre stored image of the counterpart electronic device user corresponding to the received signal or may output a pre stored voice of the counterpart electronic device user corresponding to the signal.

When it is determined in operation that the BT connection may not be established the electronic device may in operation determine whether voice or video data is available. For example although the BT connection is impossible the electronic device may determine whether to directly support voice or video data communication.

When it is determined in operation that the data is available the electronic device may proceed to operation to perform the following operations. When it is determined in operation that the data is not available the electronic device may proceed to operation to control the termination of the PTT function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in instances in which a manager e.g. a parent uses the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone and a user e.g. a child wears the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device various types of information associated with the user of the second electronic device may be provided notified to the first electronic device.

According to an embodiment in a state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the child wearing the second electronic device may move away from the manager holding the first electronic device. The second electronic device may sense a change of state in which the distance from the first electronic device is beyond a predetermined range. For example the second electronic device may check signal strength such as RSSI between the first and second electronic devices. The second electronic device may transmit information associated with the state thereof to the first electronic device when sensing that the distance from the first electronic device is beyond the predetermined range or when sensing that the signal strength is reduced to a predetermined strength or less. According to an embodiment the first and second electronic devices may exchange information associated with the distance therebetween and when the distance is a preset distance or more the second electronic device may notify it to the first electronic device. The second electronic device may provide various types of information including the travel direction the travel distance the position information thereof the state information of the user of the second electronic device and the like. Additionally or alternatively the second electronic device may transmit various types of information to the first electronic device and may also output various types of information through various output devices thereof e.g. a display a speaker a motor etc. . According to an embodiment the second electronic device may provide the user with a preset output e.g. a voice e.g. Stop a vibration an alert message etc. for requesting the user to stop. Such an operation will be described below with reference to .

Referring to in operation the electronic device may configure a notification distance from an electronic device connected thereto. For example a manager may configure a notification distance e.g. a reference distance value for preventing a child from being missed using the electronic device e.g. the first or second electronic device . According to an embodiment the manager may configure the notification distance using one electronic device and the notification distance configured in the electronic device may be shared with a counterpart electronic device. According to another embodiment the manager may also configure the same notification distance using each of the electronic devices.

In operation the electronic device may exchange information associated with the distance between the electronic devices with the counterpart electronic device connected thereto. For example the electronic device may periodically exchange or measure the distance information according to a preset period or may exchange or measure the distance information when sensing the movement thereof or a change in the movement thereof .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the distance between the electronic devices is a preset distance e.g. notification distance or more. For example the electronic device may compare the distance information between the electronic devices acquired according to the information exchange and the preset distance information e.g. notification distance and may perform operation by calculating the distance difference therebetween.

When it is determined in operation that the distance between the electronic devices is smaller than the preset distance the electronic device may proceed to operation to perform the following operations.

When it is determined in operation that the distance between the electronic devices is larger than or equal to the preset distance in operation the electronic device may notify the counterpart electronic device connected thereto of the change of state thereof. For example the electronic device may create or acquire various types of information for notifying that the electronic device moves a predetermined distance or more away from the counterpart electronic device and transmit it to the counterpart electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure state information associated with the user of the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device may be provided to the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone whereby the manager may provide management or monitoring for the user.

According to an embodiment the second electronic device while being worn by the user e.g. a child may collect state information e.g. information associated with the user s body state such as a heart rate the number of counted steps etc. on the user s state or state change using various sensors e.g. a heart rate sensor an acceleration sensor etc. of the second electronic device. The second electronic device may transmit the collected state information to the first electronic device connected thereto periodically or in response to a request. The first electronic device may receive the state information from the second electronic device and notify the manager of the received state information associated with the basis of various configured output devices. Additionally or alternatively the second electronic device may identify an abnormal situation e.g. an emergency situation of the user on the basis of the received state information. The second electronic device when determining the user s abnormal situation may provide various types of information e.g. a video a manual etc. relating to a method to cope with the determined abnormal state. Furthermore the second electronic device when determining the user s abnormal situation may also transmit various types of information e.g. the user s position information and abnormal state information to inform of the user s abnormal state to some preset contact information e.g. an emergency contact a fire station a police station etc. .

According to an embodiment in the state where the first and second electronic devices are connected to each other the second electronic device may monitor a situation in which the user e.g. a child wearing the second electronic device wakes up or cries alone and may provide the monitoring result to the first electronic device. For example it may be assumed that the manager e.g. a parent fails to listen to the sound of the user e.g. a child while doing household chores or the manager and the user are slightly separated from each other in a noisy place. The second electronic device worn by the user may sense user information such as heart rate information and motion information through various sensors e.g. a heart rate sensor or an acceleration sensor . The second electronic device may determine whether the user has woken up on the basis of the sensed user information and provide a corresponding notification to the first electronic device when it is determined that the user has woken up.

In another example it may be assumed that the user cries alone in a different room. The second electronic device may sense a sound e.g. a cry of a preset reference or more e.g. a predetermined time interval or more or a predetermined decibel or more while being worn by the user or being around the user being mounted on a cradle and charged . For example the second electronic device may analyze a total time during which a sound e.g. a cry is sensed and the magnitude of the input sound through a microphone and may determine whether the user is crying on the basis of the analysis result. When it is determined that the user is crying the second electronic device may transmit a corresponding notification to the first electronic device. Alternatively the second electronic device may provide information e.g. an input time a decibel etc. corresponding to a sound input through a microphone to the first electronic device and may determine the user s state on the basis of information received from the first electronic device to provide a corresponding notification to the first electronic device. Operations of the electronic device corresponding to that will be described below with reference to .

Referring to it may be assumed in that a user is sleeping while wearing the first electronic device such as a wearable device.

The electronic device may acquire the user s heart rate data using a heart rate sensor in operation and monitor the user s motion using an acceleration sensor in operation . In various embodiments operations and may be performed in parallel or may be individually performed according to a preset period or in response to a sensed specific event.

In operation the electronic device may gather the heart rate data in operation and the motion data in operation .

In operation the electronic device may determine the sleeping state of the user on the basis of the heart rate data and the motion data.

In operation the electronic device may detect the changed state of the user e.g. an awake state on the basis of the determination result in the operation and in operation the electronic device may transmit state information according to the changed state of the user to a counterpart electronic device connected thereto.

In it has been exemplified that the electronic device transmits the state information according to the user s change of state to the counterpart electronic device. According to various embodiments the electronic device may also provide state information e.g. a sleeping state or an awake state according to the current state of the user to the counterpart electronic device connected thereto on the basis of the determination result in the operation .

Referring to an example of transmitting an alert level corresponding to a user s state is illustrated in .

In operation the electronic device may determine a change in the user s motion. For example the electronic device may determine whether the motion change is a preset reference value e.g. N where N is a natural number or more. In various embodiments the user s motion change may be sensed on the basis of various sensors e.g. an acceleration sensor a gyro sensor a geomagnetic sensor a motion sensor etc. included in the electronic device.

When it is determined in operation that the motion change is less than N the electronic device may continue to check the motion change. When it is determined in operation that the motion change is greater than or equal to N the electronic device may determine whether a heart rate is in a preset normal range in operation . In various embodiments the user s heart rate may be measured on the basis of a heart rate sensor etc. included in the electronic device.

When it is determined in operation that the user s heart rate is in the normal range the electronic device may determine the acceleration of the motion in operation . For example the electronic device may determine whether the acceleration of the motion is a preset reference value e.g. M where M is a natural number or more. In various embodiments the acceleration of the user s motion may be sensed on the basis of various sensors e.g. an acceleration sensor a gyro sensor a motion sensor etc. included in the electronic device.

When it is determined in operation that the acceleration of the motion is less than M the electronic device may transmit information regarding an alert level corresponding to the determination result among preset alert levels to a counterpart electronic device e.g. a parent terminal connected thereto in operation . For example the electronic device may determine an alert level e.g. alert level among the various preset alert levels corresponding to the user state based on the determination results in the operations and transmit information corresponding to the determined alert level to the parent terminal.

According to an embodiment in instances in which the electronic device senses a rapid sudden motion thereof the electronic device may determine that the user wearing or holding the electronic device moves. In various embodiments when the electronic device is detected to start to move from an almost stationary state it may be set as a situation where the preset user or another user moves while wearing or carrying the electronic device. Alternatively it may be set as a situation where the preset user e.g. a child wakes up and moves. The electronic device when sensing such a situation may notify the parent terminal of the corresponding situation using alert level e.g. a lower alert level configured to correspond to the situation. In various embodiments the counterpart electronic device may forward the corresponding situation to a user of the counterpart electronic device through an output corresponding to alert level .

When it is determined in operation that the acceleration of the motion is greater than or equal to M the electronic device may transmit information of an alert level corresponding to the determination result among the preset alert levels to the counterpart electronic device e.g. the parent terminal connected thereto in operation . For example the electronic device may determine an alert level e.g. alert level among the various preset alert levels corresponding to the user state based on the determination results in the operations and transmit information corresponding to the determined alert level to the parent terminal.

According to an embodiment when the electronic device senses a change from a general motion to a sudden motion the electronic device may determine it to be a situation change that the user wearing or carrying the electronic device starts to suddenly move e.g. run . In various embodiments in instances in which the acceleration of the motion of the electronic device rapidly varies a situation of making an alert regarding prevention of missing child or theft may be set. The electronic device when sensing such a situation change may notify the parent terminal of the corresponding situation using alert level e.g. an intermediate alert level configured to correspond to the situation. In various embodiments the counterpart electronic device may forward the corresponding situation to the user of the counterpart electronic device through an output corresponding to alert level .

When it is determined in operation that the user s heart rate is not included in the normal range the electronic device may determine whether the heart rate is higher or lower than a normal heart rate in operation . For example in instances in which the user s measured heart rate is beyond the preset normal range the electronic device may determine whether the user s heart rate is higher or lower than the normal heart rate.

When it is determined in operation that the user s heart rate is lower than the normal heart rate the electronic device may proceed to operation to perform the following operations. For example the electronic device may determine an alert level e.g. alert level or corresponding to the user s state based on the determination results in the operations and perform an operation e.g. operation or of transmitting information corresponding to the determined alert level to the parent terminal.

When it is determined in operation that the user s heart rate is higher than the normal heart rate the electronic device may transmit information regarding an alert level corresponding to the determination result among the preset alert levels to the counterpart electronic device e.g. the parent terminal connected thereto in operation . For example the electronic device may determine an alert level e.g. alert level among the various preset alert levels corresponding to the user state based on the determination results in the operations and transmit information corresponding to the determined alert level to the parent terminal.

According to an embodiment the electronic device may sense a sudden motion thereof and when it is determined that the user s heart rate is high the electronic device may determine it to be an emergency situation. In various embodiments when the electronic device is detected to start to rapidly move from an almost stationary state e.g. by a gyro sensor if the user s heart rate measured through a heart rate sensor is higher than a typical value it may be determined that the user is placed in an emergency situation. For example it may be determined to be a situation where the user wearing or carrying the electronic device is greatly surprised or psychologically shrunk. The electronic device when sensing such a situation may notify the parent terminal of the corresponding situation using alert level e.g. the highest alert level configured to correspond to the situation. In various embodiments the counterpart electronic device may forward the corresponding situation to the user of the counterpart electronic device through an output corresponding to alert level .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in instances in which a manager holds and operates the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone and a user e.g. a child wears the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device the first electronic device may provide a remote control function over the second electronic device. In various embodiments the cases of using the electronic devices as described above may be implemented for various situations such as for example a situation for the prevention of a missing child a situation for notifying of an emergency situation etc.

According to an embodiment the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device may monitor the state of the user e.g. a child who is wearing the second electronic device under a preset condition and detect whether the user is in an emergency situation on the basis of the monitoring result. When the second electronic device senses the user s emergency situation under the preset condition the second electronic device may transfer various types of information associated with the corresponding situation e.g. information for notifying of the user s current state to the counterpart electronic device e.g. a parent terminal connected thereto or another pre specified electronic device or a server e.g. a police station or a fire station . An operation of notifying of the user s current state on the basis of the second electronic device will be described below with reference to .

Referring to an example of entering an emergency mode through a screen touch operation on the basis of a touch screen of the electronic device and transmitting a user s state information sensed according to that is illustrated in . In various embodiments the state information may be transmitted to a counterpart electronic device e.g. a parent terminal connected to the electronic device or another electronic device e.g. a server a neighboring electronic device etc. configured in advance according to an emergency service. According to an embodiment a case where the user e.g. a child has difficulty identifying or accurately recognizing text or performing a sliding operation may be considered. Accordingly in various embodiments in instances in which the user touches the whole surface of the touch screen several times at predetermined intervals the touches are counted and when the total sensed touch count is larger than a predetermined number it may be recognized that the user is placed in an emergency or call situation.

The electronic device may recognize a screen touch on the basis of the touch screen thereof in operation and may determine whether the recognized screen touch is a touch on the whole surface of the touch screen in operation .

The electronic device when sensing the touch over the whole surface based on operations may acquire the user s biometric information in operation . In various embodiments the biometric information may be acquired by an internal sensor provided in the electronic device or an external sensor interworking with the electronic device. The electronic device may consistently monitor the user s state through the sensor and store the biometric information associated with the user s state corresponding to the monitoring result. The electronic device may monitor the user s state on the basis of the sensor and acquire biometric information stored when the touch over the whole surface is sensed as in operations or biometric information according to the user s state at the time when the touch over the whole surface is sensed.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the user is placed in an emergency situation on the basis of the acquired biometric information. For example the electronic device may identify the user s highest heart rate HHR and compare the HHR with a preset value e.g. 100 . The electronic device may determine that the user is in an abnormal state e.g. emergency situation when the HHR is higher than the preset value and may determine that the user is in a normal state when the HHR is lower than or equal to the preset value.

When it is determined in operation that the user is not in an emergency situation the electronic device may determine whether the touch over the whole surface has been sensed a preset number e.g. N where N is a natural number of times or more in operation . For example the user may enter a touch input N times over the whole surface of the touch screen of the electronic device and the electronic device may count the user s touch inputs and determine whether touches over the whole surface have been entered more than the preset number N of times.

When it is determined in operation that the touches over the whole surface have been entered the preset number N of times or less the electronic device may proceed to operation to perform the following operations.

When it is determined in operation that the user is in an emergency situation or when it is determined in operation that touches over the whole surface have been entered more than the preset number N of times the electronic device may proceed to operation to perform the following operations.

In operation the electronic device may identify the connection state of the counterpart electronic device e.g. a parent terminal . For example the electronic device may check whether the parent terminal has been connected thereto on the basis of at least one communication method.

When it is identified in operation that the parent terminal has been connected to the electronic device the electronic device may transmit an emergency signal including state information e.g. biometric information position information etc. on the user s state to the parent terminal connected thereto in operation .

When it is identified in operation that the parent terminal is not connected to the electronic device the electronic device may execute an advertising mode or change to an advertising mode in operation . For example in instances in which the electronic device fails to sense the existing parent terminal or is not connected to the parent terminal the electronic device may change to a Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon advertising mode.

In operation the electronic device may broadcast an emergency signal in the advertising mode. For example the electronic device may change to the BLE beacon advertising mode and broadcast a pre standardized emergency signal. In various embodiments the emergency signal may be sensed only by the electronic devices in instances in which the electronic devices have subscribed to a specific service e.g. a missing child search service etc. in advance.

Referring to an example of entering an emergency mode by sensing a motion of the electronic device on the basis of an acceleration sensor of the electronic device and transmitting a user s state information sensed according to that is illustrated in . In various embodiments the state information may be transmitted to a counterpart electronic device e.g. a parent terminal connected to the electronic device or another electronic device e.g. a server a neighboring electronic device etc. configured in advance according to an emergency service. According to an embodiment a case where the user e.g. a child changes the acceleration of the electronic device with a specific hand motion e.g. hitting the bottom or a wall with his her palm or clenching and shaking his her fist may be considered. Accordingly in various embodiments when the electronic device senses an acceleration change of a predetermined value or more it may be recognized that the user is placed in an emergency or call situation.

The electronic device may sense an acceleration change on the basis of an acceleration sensor in operation and recognize a specific pattern for the sensed acceleration change in operation . For example the electronic device may analyze a pattern in which the acceleration varies and determine whether the analyzed pattern corresponds to a preset pattern.

The electronic device when sensing the preset specific pattern based on the operations may acquire the user s biometric information in operation . For example the electronic device may acquire the biometric information using a method corresponding to the description referring to the operation of .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the user is placed in an emergency situation on the basis of the acquired biometric information. For example the electronic device may determine the emergency situation of the user through an operation corresponding to the description referring to the operation of .

When it is determined in operation that the user is not in an emergency situation the electronic device may determine whether the specific pattern has been sensed a preset number e.g. N where N is a natural number of times or more in operation . For example the user may generate a specific pattern of the electronic device e.g. a change in acceleration by a repetitive reciprocating motion N times while grasping the electronic device. The electronic device may count a specific pattern input e.g. acceleration change and determine whether the specific pattern has been input more than the preset number N of times.

When it is determined in operation that the specific pattern has been input the preset number N of times or less the electronic device may proceed to operation to perform the following operations.

When it is determined in operation that the user is in an emergency situation or when it is determined in operation that the specific pattern has been input more than the preset number N of times the electronic device may proceed to operation to perform the following operations.

In various embodiments operations may be performed through operations corresponding to the descriptions referring to the operations of described above and descriptions thereof will be omitted.

As described above according to the various embodiments the electronic device may sense the screen touch operation such as the touch over the whole surface N times or more on the basis of the touch screen or may sense the acceleration change of the specific pattern N times or more on the basis of the acceleration sensor or gyro sensor . The electronic device may determine to enter an emergency mode on the basis of the sensing result.

In various embodiments the electronic device when determining to enter the emergency mode may perform error correction using a biometric sensor that can sense the user s heartbeat. For example the electronic device may check the degree of the heartbeat on the basis of the biometric sensor and determine that the user is in an emergency situation in instances in which a heartbeat of a predetermined level or more is sensed. The electronic device when sensing the user s emergency situation may notify the user s emergency situation to the counterpart electronic device e.g. a parent terminal connected thereto or another electronic device therearound.

An embodiment of notifying a pre registered parent terminal of a user s emergency situation according to various embodiments will be described below.

According to an embodiment in instances in which an electronic device is always connected to the parent terminal through BLE etc. the electronic device may notify the parent terminal of the user s emergency situation in real time.

According to an embodiment in instances in which the electronic device fails to sense the parent terminal or is not connected to the parent terminal the electronic device may change to a BLE beacon advertising mode. The electronic device may change to the BLE beacon advertising mode and broadcast a pre standardized emergency signal. In various embodiments the emergency signal may be implemented so as to be sensed only by an electronic device having subscribed to a specific service e.g. a missing child search service or may be implemented so as to be sensed by all electronic devices around the electronic device. In various embodiments another electronic device that receives an emergency signal from the electronic device may forward the emergency signal to a relating parent terminal or contact on the basis of a pre registered list e.g. an emergency list . For example the other electronic device may sense an emergency signal broadcast by the electronic device to identify an emergency list and may transmit to the parent terminal an emergency message including the position information of the electronic device or the position information of the other electronic device having received the emergency signal emergency signal reception time information BLE beacon code information and the like. The other electronic device may transmit the emergency message to the parent terminal using wireless communication such as cellular communication etc. In various embodiments in instances in which the other electronic device fails to sense the parent terminal the other electronic device may also record and transmit emergency information using Wi Fi naming. In various embodiments the emergency list may be stored as a specific database e.g. a kids list DB in the other electronic device or may be stored in an external server. The other electronic device may identify the emergency list corresponding to the emergency signal from the internal database or the external server.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure even when a manager operates the first electronic device e.g. a smart phone and a user e.g. a child wears the second electronic device e.g. a wearable device a PTT function as described above may be provided.

The examples in which electronic devices are connected to each other in one to one correspondences as the first and second electronic devices have been described above. However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is also possible to control one second electronic device e.g. a wearable device and a plurality of first electronic devices e.g. a smart phone a tablet PC etc. and vice versa. According to an embodiment a manager e.g. a parent may control a plurality of electronic devices e.g. a smart phone a tablet PC etc. using one electronic device e.g. a wearable device or may control one electronic device e.g. a smart phone or a tablet PC using a plurality of electronic devices e.g. a plurality of wearable devices . For example in various embodiments electronic devices may perform operations according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure through one to N N is a natural number larger than or equal to 2 communication as well as one to one communication.

According to various embodiments an operating method for an electronic device may include sensing a specific situation to transmit a notification message for the situation to another electronic device and controlling a mode on the basis of a control message received from the other electronic device. The specific situation may be a situation where a specified user using the electronic device is identified or a situation where the electronic device is activated. The control message may be a message that is determined in order to perform a preset specific mode in correspondence to the specified user. The controlling may include changing the mode to a mode for restricting the execution of at least one program. The controlling may include not changing the mode in instances in which the received control message does not include a user input. Sensing the specific situation to transmit the notification message for the situation to the other electronic device may include detecting a case where the user s detected biometric information is beyond a specified range. The operating method may further includes backing up at least a part of a user interface data and setting information at the time of a mode change and performing a recovery function on the basis of the backup at the time of the termination of the changed mode. Sensing the specific situation to transmit the notification message for the situation to the other electronic device may include identifying the quality of communication with the other electronic device and changing the mode may include changing to at least one of a real time call connection and a restricted call connection on the basis of the communication quality.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an operating method for an electronic device may include establishing wireless communication with another electronic device using a communication interface sensing a change of state of the electronic device transmitting first information associated with the change of state to the other electronic device using the communication interface receiving second information associated with the control of the electronic device from the other electronic device using the communication interface and performing a process of the electronic device using the second information.

According to various embodiments the sensing of the change of state may include determining whether at least one of an event received from the outside a use event of the electronic device and a user s change of state in the electronic device occurs.

According to various embodiments the transmitting of the first information may include identifying users of the electronic device and the other electronic device when sensing the change of state of the electronic device and providing an event generated by the electronic device to the other electronic device when the users of the electronic devices differ from each other. According to various embodiments the transmitting of the first information may include omitting an output of an event corresponding to a call a message or an application notification that is received from the outside and transferring the corresponding event to the other electronic device.

According to various embodiments the identifying of the user may include determining that the users of the electronic devices differ from each other when a specific mode is configured to restrict the use of the electronic device. According to various embodiments the identifying of the user may include determining whether the users of the electronic devices are the same as each other on the basis of the distance between the electronic device and the other electronic device.

According to various embodiments the transmitting of the first information may include notifying the other electronic device of information relating to an event in which the electronic device is used when the users of the electronic devices differ from each other.

According to various embodiments the operating method may further include acquiring wearing information of the other electronic device from the other electronic device and determining the wearing state of the other electronic device on the basis of the acquired wearing information.

According to various embodiments the operating method may further include executing a push to talk PTT function in response to a request of the other electronic device or a user input and processing data transmission or reception according to the execution of the PTT function through the communication interface. According to various embodiments the processing may include determining a connection state between the electronic device and the other electronic device when executing the PTT function and processing the data in real time or in a predetermined time unit e.g. on a configured time basis to correspond to the connection state. According to various embodiments the processing may include executing the PTT function on the basis of a signal configured between the electronic device and the other electronic device to correspond to the connection state.

According to various embodiments the operating method may further include backing up at least a part of a user interface data and setting information of the electronic device when sensing the use event of the electronic device and recovering the electronic device on the basis of the backup in response to the control of the other electronic device or release of the use event of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operating method may further include sensing the user s change of state from at least one sensor determining whether the change of state is included in a preset reference and transmitting information corresponding to the change of state to the other electronic device when the change of state is included in the preset reference.

As described above according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device can provide various types of controllable functions through another electronic device thereby enhancing availability thereof. According to the various embodiments in instances in which a parent allows a child to use an electronic device e.g. a smart phone or a tablet PC the parent can control various functions of the electronic device using a wearable device connected to the electronic device. Accordingly in the various embodiments the parent can be provided with a notification of the child s use of the electronic device or a remote control function through the wearable device thereby enhancing the availability of the electronic device and the wearable device. Furthermore according to the various embodiments a parent can perform various monitoring on a child wearing a gear through an electronic device e.g. a smart phone or a tablet PC and can identify and control a notification of the child s states.

Various embodiments performed by the electronic device may be operations that are performed under the control of the processor . In addition the electronic device may include a separate module from the processor which is programmed to control various embodiments of the present disclosure. The separate module that is programmed to control various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed based on a control of the processor .

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include one or more components and the name of a corresponding element may vary according to the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements and may exclude some of the elements or further include other additional elements. Further some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be coupled to form a single entity while performing the same functions as those of the corresponding elements before the coupling.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some of the devices or methods according to various embodiment of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and or disclosed herein may be implemented in the form of hardware software firm ware or any combination e.g. module or unit of at least two of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component element or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known or are to be developed hereinafter. If implemented in software a computer readable storage medium or storage medium readable by a computer storing at least one program or programming module may be provided. The software may for example be implemented by instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium in the form of a programming module. The at least one program may include instructions that cause the electronic device to perform the methods according to various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and or disclosed herein. When the command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may for example be the memory . At least a part of the programming module may for example be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming module may for example include a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing at least one function.

The computer readable storage medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disc a floppy disc and a magnetic tape optical media such as a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and a digital versatile disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk a hardware device specifically configured to store and execute program instructions e.g. programming module such as a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM and a flash memory an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a magnetic disc storage device any other type of optical storage device and a magnetic cassette. Alternatively any combination of some or all of the may form a memory in which the program is stored. Further a plurality of such memories may be included in the electronic device. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler.

In addition the program may be stored in an attachable storage device capable of accessing the electronic device through a communication network such as the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a wide LAN WLAN a storage area network SAN or any combination thereof. The storage devices may be connected to an electronic device through an external port. Further a separate storage device on the communication network may access a portable electronic device. Any of the hardware devices as described above may be configured to work as one or more software modules in order to perform the operations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

Any of the modules or programming modules according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements exclude some of the elements or further include other additional elements. The operations performed by the modules programming module or other elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed in a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

The above described aspects of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

While the present disclosure has been particularly shown and described with reference to the examples provided therein it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

