---

title: Method and system for dynamically managing storage space of video recording devices
abstract: The technology relates to dynamically managing storage space of one or more video recording devices. The video recording devices sends one or more notifications to recording session management server. The one or more notifications are associated with recording status of an event and the storage space status of each of the one or more video recording devices. Each device is associated with one or more predefined policies configured by a user of the video recording devices. Based on predefined policies and notifications, the recording session management server identifies change in status of free space and used space in each of the one or more video recording devices. The recording session management server schedules video recording devices to perform actions based on change in status of free space and used space and one or more event parameters for dynamically managing the storage space of the one or more video recording devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565465&OS=09565465&RS=09565465
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09565465
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150925
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Serial No. 3930 CHE 2015 filed Jul. 30 2015 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present subject matter is related in general to video recording devices and more particularly to a method and system for dynamically managing storage space of video recording devices.

Generally a Digital Video Recorder DVR or a Personal Video Recorder PVR is used to record television programs. These devices have capacity to store 100s of hours of media in standard formats on secure hard disks in the device itself. There can be multiple such devices at home for example one in living room and one in bed room. Recently there has been a shift to having cloud based recordings cloud DVR for television content which is then streamed to a Set Top Box STB or other mobile devices that the user owns. In view of the above there exists a problem for managing the storage of recordings optimally across multiple recording devices at home and cloud.

The existing recording systems schedule and record programs either locally on a Hard Disk Drive HDD of a user specified user owned Customer Premise Equipment CPE device or on the network storage in the cloud based on user request for recording initiation. Each user or account may be given an allocation of storage capacity in these storage devices either local or remote and when a user requests to record an upcoming program the content server can record the program in the active storage device consuming a portion of the user s allocation in that active storage device. Typically there are various passive recording options available to users to manage the recording storage space such as delete at a time delete oldest recordings First in First out FIFO large size items first etc. These options are set up manually by the user and are associated per recording on a device and are used by the device to manage the space within itself. There is a finite amount of storage space available in the user device allocated for recording and there are operational costs for service provider involved in claiming additional storage space in the cloud. Due to the easier availability in high quality formats such as HD 4K and existence of multiple copies of content for different device profiles and content explosion the storage space can get easily exhausted.

Moreover the current storage space management systems and policies are passive in nature. They are based on the recording options listed above. The onus is largely on the user to manually set appropriate record options for recording and for storage management. The user can also invoke a service option to choose what programs user wishes to retain vis vis remove from storage either when the user chooses them specifically or if the storage space crosses a threshold value which is near the full capacity of the device. These methods involve user actions for storage space which might get burdensome on user. There can also be variations in storage policies and user experience across CPE devices local and cloud network storage remote as well as differences in the devices available to user across time. These can be confusing for user to understand and use the devices optimally.

Also there is minimal or no intelligence in the recording space management between the local recording storage s within the home and cloud storage. For instances content which are not popularly viewed are not compacted and moved to the cloud while content that is popular even if it is initially stored in the cloud are not moved into the local storage for better viewing performance. This impacts the recorded content viewing experience for the end user.

The issues mainly faced in the video recording devices are to manage and utilize the storage space dynamically in each of the video recording devices CPE devices and cloud devices thereby improving the overall quality of video viewing experience for the end user.

Disclosed herein is a method and system for dynamically managing storage of one or more video recording devices.

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to a method for dynamically managing storage of one or more video recording devices. The method comprises receiving by a recording session management server one or more notifications from each of the one or more video recording devices. The one or more notifications are associated with recording status of an event and the storage space status of each of the one or more video recording devices. The recording session management server also receives one or more policies corresponding to each of the one or more video recording devices. Based on the notifications and the policies the recording session management server recording server identifies change in status of free space and used space in each of the one or more video recording devices. The method further comprises scheduling at least one of the video recording device for performing one or more actions based on the change in status of free space and used space and one or more event parameters for dynamically managing the storage space of the one or more video recording devices.

Further the present disclosure discloses a recording session management server for dynamically managing storage of one or more video recording devices. The recording session management server comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution causes the processor to receive one or more notifications from each of the one or more video recording devices. The one or more notifications are associated with recording status of an event and the storage space status of each of the one or more video recording devices. The processor also receives one or more policies corresponding to each of the one or more video recording devices. Based on the notifications and the policies the processor identifies change in status of free space and used space in each of the one or more video recording devices. Thereafter the processor schedules at least one of the video recording devices for performing one or more actions based on the change in status of free space and used space and one or more event parameters for dynamically managing the storage space of the one or more video recording devices.

Furthermore the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor cause a recording session management server to perform the acts of receiving or more notifications from each of the one or more video recording devices. The one or more notifications are associated with recording status of an event and the storage space status of each of the one or more video recording devices. The recording session management server also receives one or more policies corresponding to each of the one or more video recording devices. Based on the notifications and the policies the recording session management server recording server identifies change in status of free space and used space in each of the one or more video recording devices. Thereafter the recording session management server schedules at least one of the video recording devices for performing one or more actions based on the change in status of free space and used space and one or more event parameters for dynamically managing the storage space of the one or more video recording devices.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems embodying the principles of the present subject matter. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudo code and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternative falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.

The terms comprises comprising or any other variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a setup device or method that comprises a list of components or steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps not expressly listed or inherent to such setup or device or method. In other words one or more elements in a system or apparatus proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the system or method.

The present disclosure relates to a method and system for dynamically managing storage space of one or more video recording devices. The method comprises receiving by recording session management server notifications from each of the one or more video recording devices. The notifications are associated with recording status of an event and the storage space status of each of the one or more video recording devices. Each video recording device is associated with corresponding policies set by a user managing the video recording device. The policies are configured in order to manage the storage space of the video recording devices. The policies may be predefined by the user or changed dynamically based on activities of the user. As an example the time at which the events should be deleted or archived the events which are to be deleted or archived the conditions for deletion such as type of the event size of the event or access count of the event. Based on these policies the recording of the future events are scheduled. The notifications are stored in a recording database associated with the recording session management server. The recording session management server identifies change in status of free space and used space in each of the one or more video recording devices based on the notifications and the predefined policy associated with each video recording device. If there is change in the status of free space and used space in the video recording device then the recording session management server schedules the video recording device to perform one or more actions. The recording session management server schedules the video recording device based on the change in the status and one or more event parameters. The one or more actions are deletion of the events archival of the events or prioritizing the devices for future recording request.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

The environment comprises one or more video recording devices video recording device video recording device and video recording device a communication network and a recording session management server . The one or more video recording devices may include but not limited to customer premises equipment CPE example set top boxes and cloud based recording services. The recording session management server is associated with a service provider of the video recording devices. In an embodiment the video recording device and the video recording device are configured at users subscribers place and the video recording device is a cloud based video recording device. The video recording devices are configured to record one or more events. As an example the event may refer to any television program. Each recording device is associated with a device identification ID number. The one or more events being recorded by each video recording device is also associated with event ID number. The recording session management server is associated with a user database and a device database . The user database maintains records of one or more users availing the service from the service provider. As an example user name user address term of service etc. The device database maintains records of one or more video recording devices being assigned for each user. Each video recording device comprises a recording client module. The recording client module is configured to transmit one or more notifications to the recording session management server . The one or more notifications are associated with recording status of the event and storage status of each of the one or more video recording devices. The notifications associated with the recording status may include but not limited to recording scheduled recording started recording stopped recording failed recording complete recording deleted recording incomplete recording view completed recording view started and recording view paused . The notifications associated with the recording status provide information on whether the event recording has been scheduled whether the event recording has been started whether the event recording has been stopped whether the event recording is failed whether the event recording is incomplete whether the event recording is complete whether the event has been deleted whether the event viewing by the user has been complete whether the event viewing has been started or whether the event viewing has been pause by the user. The one or more notifications associated with the storage status are current event projected disk usage current event actual disk space total available space available disk space in the cloud based video recording devices and free disk space . the one or more notifications associated with the storage status provide information of storage space of each video recording device i.e the current available space in the video recording device actual usage of the space in the device after the event recording has been scheduled total free space in the device and free space in the device. The one or more notifications are continuously provided to the recording session management server .

The recording session management server comprises an interface a memory and a processor . The I O interface and the memory are communicatively coupled to the processor . The memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to perform one or more steps. In an embodiment the input interface is used to receive the notifications from the video recording devices. The notifications associated with each video recording device are stored in the recording database of the memory . In an embodiment the input interface is used to receive policy corresponding to each video recording device. The policies are configured based on inputs received by a user managing the video recording devices. In an embodiment the policies are also configured based on the inputs received from the service providers. Based on the notifications and the predefined policies the processor identifies the change in the status of used space and free space in each video recording device. In an embodiment the processor extracts metadata from the one or more notifications. The metadata includes information associated with the events. As an example the event may be a television serial. The metadata information may include information of director of the serial artists of the serial poster of the serial name of the serial series of the serial etc.

As an example the free space in the video recording device is 20 GB and the used space in the video recording device is 80 GB. The free space in the video recording device is 30 GB and the used space 70 GB. The free space in the video recording device is 40 GB and the used space is 60 GB. As an example the event with event ID is being recorded in the video recording device . The event with event ID is being recorded in the video recording device and the event with event ID is being recorded in the video recording device . While recording the event the recording client module of the video recording device sends notification recording started to the recording session management server . The recording session management server stores the notification in the recording database. The recording client module of the video recording device may send the notification recording complete to the recording session management server . Since the recording is complete the storage space in the video recording device varies. As an example the free space after recording the event ID is 10 GB and the used space is 90 GB. The recording client module configured in the video recording device sends the notification recording incomplete to the recording session management server . Since the recording in incomplete the storage space in the video recording device varies. As an example the free space after recording the event with event ID is 25 GB and the used space is 75 GB. The recording client module configured in the video recording device sends the notification recording failed to the recording session management server . Since the recording is failed there will not be any change in the storage space of the video recording device . The user configures a predefined policy for each of the video recording device. As an example the predefined policies are associated with deletion of the events and compaction of the events i.e at what point of time the events must be deleted or archived and which events to be deleted to enable recording the new future events. The processor identifies the change in the status of the free space and the used space in each of the one or more video recording devices. As an example there is a change in the status of the free space and the used space in the video recording device and the video recording device . The processor identifies the change in the status of the free space and the used space. As an example the predefined policy associated with by the user. Similarly as an example the predefined policy associated with the video recording device may be to delete one or more events after a predetermined time and the predefined policy associated with the video recording device may be to delete the event whose size is large.

In an embodiment the processor schedules one or more video recording devices for performing one or more actions based on the change in the status and the one or more event parameters. In this scenario the processor may prioritize the video recording device for recording future events since the free space is more as compared to the free space in the video recording device . The processor dynamically selects or prioritizes the video recording devices for scheduling the future event recording request. The one or more event parameters may include but not limited to access count of the event i.e number of times the recorded event has been viewed by the user aging of the event i.e to see if the events recorded has been too old scheduling order of the events i.e the order in which the events should be deleted viewing pattern of the events by the user i.e to check in which video recording device the user preferable views the recorded video video format of the recording duplicate recording of the program i.e if there are duplicate events priority consideration of the service provider i.e based on decision of the service provider metadata of the event accessibility of the recordings on the video recording devices i.e to check if the video recordings has been accessible to the user or not and removal of advertisements on the recorded event wherever permissible.

As an example the user may view the recorded event with event ID using the video recording device . Therefore the future recordings of the event ID may be recorded in the video recording device so that it will be easy for the user to access the event. As another example the user may processor may dynamically schedule the video recording device for future event recording request if the event to be recorded has the metadata which matches with the metadata of the event being recorded in the video recording device . In an embodiment the processor may schedule at least one video recording device for performing one or more actions based on the change in status of free space and used space and one or more event parameters. The one or more actions may include but not limited to deletion of events archiving of events rescheduling the event in the one or more video recording devices and identifying the video recording device for recording future events.

In one implementation the recording session management server receives input data i.e notifications from one or more video recording devices. As an example the received input data is stored in a recording database of the memory . In an embodiment the input data includes policy data user data device data recording data and other data . In the illustrated one or more modules stored in the memory are described herein in detail.

In one embodiment the data may be stored in the memory in the form of various data structures. Additionally the aforementioned data can be organized using data models such as relational or hierarchical data models. The other data may store data including temporary data and temporary files generated by modules for performing the various functions of the recording session management server .

In an embodiment the policy data is associated with each of the one or more video recording devices. The user managing the video recording device configures one or more policies for each video recording device. As an example the user may be a user subscriber using the video recording device or a service provider. The policies are defined by the user for managing the storage space in the video recording device. As an example the policy set by the user may be to delete the events in the video recording device when the disk space or the storage space exceeds the predefined threshold storage space value. The other policies may include but not limited to to delete the events which are not viewed by the user for more than three months delete the events whose size is large delete the events after a predetermined time period and archive the events if the storage space is full.

In an embodiment the user data comprises information of one or more users availing the service from the service provider. The user data is retrieved from the user database . The input interface of the recording session management server receives the user data from the user database and stores the user data in the memory .

In an embodiment the device data comprises information of one or more video recording devices configured for each user subscriber. The device data also includes information of type of the video recording device device ID and the storage capacity of the video recording device. The device data is retrieved from the device database . The input interface of the recording session management server receives the device data from the device database and stores in the memory .

In an embodiment the recording data comprise information of one or more events being recorded in each of the video recording device. Each video recording device records one or more events and sends notification to the recording session management server . The recording session management server stores the information of each event being recorded in each video recording device. The date and time which the events are recorded and also information about storage space in each of the video recording devices. The recording session management server also extracts metadata information of each event being recorded in each video recording device.

In an embodiment the data stored in the memory are processed by the modules of the recording session management server . The modules may be stored within the memory as shown in . In an example the modules communicatively coupled to the processor may also be present outside the memory .

In one implementation the modules may include for example a receiving module a metadata cache module an identification module a scheduling module and other modules . The other modules may be used to perform various miscellaneous functionalities of the recording session management server . It will be appreciated that such aforementioned modules may be represented as a single module or a combination of different modules.

In an embodiment the receiving module is configured to receive one or more notifications from each of the one or more video recording devices. As an example one or more video recording devices are configured inside user s home and one or more video recording devices may be a cloud based recoding service provided to the user. Each video recording device is associated with an identification ID number. The video recording devices are configured to record one or more events and provide notifications to the recording session management server . The notifications are associated with the recording status of the events and the storage status of the video recording device. The receiving module receives the notifications from each video recording device and stores in the memory .

Upon receiving the notifications the recording session management server performs mapping of the notifications with the user data and the device data . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated in the video recording device the video recording device and the video recording device is configured for user . Therefore the notifications received from these devices are mapped in the recording database for the user . In an embodiment the information associated with mapping may be provided to the video recording devices through one or more interfaces which includes but not limited to HTTP JSON SOAP RPC and XML. Based on the received notifications the recording session management server identifies the active events being recorded in each video recording device at one or more time intervals. In an embodiment the recording session management server receives the information associated with one or more policies configured for each video recording device by a user. The policies provide information for deleting or archiving the events in each video recording device.

In an embodiment the metadata cache module extracts metadata information based on the received notifications from each video recording device. The metadata information is associated with each event being recorded or stored in the video recording device. As an example the event may be a television serial. The metadata information may include name of the director name of the artists in the serial and series number of the serial. Based on the metadata information the recording session management server schedules one of the video recording devices for performing one or more actions. As an example the event with event ID may be recorded in the video recording device . When the one or more series of the same event has to be recorded in future then the based on the metadata information the recording session management server identifies that the event with the event ID has been recorded in the video recording device and therefore the one or more series of the same event will also be recorded in the video recording device for easy access by the user.

In an embodiment the identification module identifies the change in the status of the free space and used space in each video recording device based on the notifications and the predefined policies. The change in the status of free space and used space is identified in each video recording device. The free space and used space in each of the one or more video recording devices is recorded by the recording session management server for managing the storage space optimally among the video recording devices.

In an embodiment the scheduling module is configured to schedule at least one video recording device for performing one or more actions. As illustrated in there is change in status of the free space and used space in the video recording device and the video recording device . The recording session management server schedules the recording of the future events based on the free space availability of the video recording devices. As an example the future event may be associated with the event ID . Therefore the recording session management server schedules the video recording device to perform one or more actions for recording the future event associated with the event ID . The one or more actions may be related to deleting the events or archiving the events in the video recording device . As an example the action scheduled for the video recording device may be to delete one or more events in the video recording device which are not viewed by the user for more than 3 months. Therefore the video recording device deletes the one or more events. Thereafter the video recording device may be used for recording the future events associated with the event ID . The recording session management server also estimates the size of the event to be recorded. If the size exceeds the free space size in the video recording device then the recording session management server may schedule the video recording device to record the future events.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks for dynamically managing storage space of one or more video recording devices using a recording session management server . The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

At block one or more notifications are received from each of the one or more video recording devices. The one or more video recording devices are associated with a service provider for recording and storing events. The one or more notifications are associated with recording status of the events and storage space status. The recording status refers to event recording status and recording view status of the events. The event recording status may include information of whether the event has been scheduled or not whether event recording has been started or not whether the event recording has been stopped or not whether the event recording has been failed whether the event recording has been completed whether the event recording has been deleted. The recording view status may include information of whether the event viewing has been completed or not whether viewing of the event has been started or not or whether the viewing of the recording has been paused or not. The notifications are continuously sent to the recording session management server and the notifications are updated in the recording database.

At block mapping of the notifications with the user account is performed. Based on the received notifications the recording session management server maps the notifications to the associated user. The recoding server maps the notifications received from the video recording devices to the user data stored in the recording database.

At block one or more policies configured for each video recording device is provided to the recording session management server . The one or more policies are configured by a user of the video recording devices. The configured policies may be changed based on activities of the user. Based on the policies the video recording device will either delete the events or archive the events for recording storing the future events.

At block metadata information associated with the events is extracted. In an embodiment the recording session management server extracts the metadata from based on the notifications received from the video recording devices. In another embodiment the metadata information may be received from an event metadata service like Electronic program Guide EPG services and stores the metadata information in the recording database.

At block the recording session management server identifies change in status of free space and used space in each video recording device. As an example after recording a particular event there might be change in the status of the free space and the used space. Since the event has been recorded the free space would have become less and the used space would have become more. The change in the status is identified by the recording session management server and updates the information in the recording database. Since there is change in the status the recording session management server may schedule recording of the future events optimally in the video recording devices where there availability of free space.

At block the recording session management server schedules the video recording device to perform one or more actions based on the change in the status of free space and used space and one or more event parameters. The event parameters may be access count of the event aging of the event scheduling order of the events viewing pattern of the events by the user video format of the recording duplicate recording of the program priority consideration of the service provider accessibility of the recordings on the video recording devices and removal of advertisements on the recorded event wherever permissible. The one or more actions may be to delete the one or more events archive the one or more events or even prioritize the video recording devices for recording the future events.

The processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices and via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus Universal Serial Bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI Radio Frequency RF antennas S Video Video Graphics Array VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. Code Division Multiple Access CDMA High Speed Packet Access HSPA Global System For Mobile Communications GSM Long Term Evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with one or more user devices a . . . n . The communication network can be implemented as one of the different types of networks such as intranet or Local Area Network LAN and such within the organization. The communication network may either be a dedicated network or a shared network which represents an association of the different types of networks that use a variety of protocols for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Wireless Application Protocol WAP etc. to communicate with each other. Further the communication network may include a variety of network devices including routers bridges servers computing devices storage devices etc. The one or more user devices a . . . n may include without limitation personal computer s mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones tablet computers eBook readers laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles or the like.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a memory e.g. RAM ROM etc. not shown in via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SATA Integrated Drive Electronics IDE IEEE 1394 Universal Serial Bus USB fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive Redundant Array of Independent Discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation user interface application an operating system web server etc. In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this invention. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase.

The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X UNIX Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. International Business Machines IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry Operating System OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical User Interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTPS secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java Application Programming Interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as Active Server Pages ASP ActiveX American National Standards Institute ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange Post Office Protocol POP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present invention. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. non transitory. Examples include Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives Compact Disc CD ROMs Digital Video Disc DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides optimal usage of the video recording device for recording and storing events.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides a method to dynamically manage the storage space in the video recording devices wherein the video recording devices includes customer premises equipment and cloud based video recording services.

The present disclosure provides optimal usage of storage space for storing recordings by identifying available and ongoing recorded event across the video recording devices.

The present disclosure provides a method for identifying which recordings have to be deleted or archived or compacted based on the event video recording device and the account usage of the user.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the invention.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the invention need not include the device itself.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based here on. Accordingly the embodiments of the present invention are intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

