---

title: N-path cascode transistor output switch for a digital to analog converter
abstract: Techniques are provided for a switched output digital to analog converter employing an N-path cascode output switch. An example system may include a plurality of cascode transistors coupled in parallel to an output stage of a current mode digital to analog converter (DAC) circuit. The system may also include a plurality of control ports, each of the control ports coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors. The system may further include a plurality of output ports, each output port coupled to one of the cascode transistors. The cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor. The cascode transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors (HEMT) fabricated from Gallium Nitride.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450595&OS=09450595&RS=09450595
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09450595
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151203
---
This Application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 091 034 filed on Dec. 12 2014 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. W911QX 13 C 0050 awarded by the US Department of the Army. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to Digital to Analog Converters DACs and more particularly to multiple path cascode transistor based output switches for relatively wide bandwidth DACs.

In many applications the output of a wide bandwidth Digital to Analog Converter DAC needs to be coupled through a switching mechanism to one of multiple N different output paths or channels for example for subsequent filtering processing and or transmission over different channel frequency bands. When a particular path is selected the other paths should generally be deactivated to reduce the loading on the DAC output prevent impedance mismatches between the DAC output and the filter and avoid spurious leakage between bands. Conventional switching techniques typically use an external switch e.g. external to the DAC circuit at which point the DAC output is already in a controlled impedance voltage mode. These external switches tend to be relatively lossy particularly at higher speeds. Additionally if active device switches are used they can adversely impact the linearity of the signal.

One example embodiment of the present disclosure provides a switch including a plurality of cascode transistors coupled in parallel to an output stage of a current mode digital to analog converter DAC circuit a plurality of control ports each of the control ports coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors and a plurality of output ports each output port coupled to one of the cascode transistors. Each of the cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor. In some embodiments the cascode transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Nitride. In some embodiments the cascode transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Arsenide. In other embodiments the cascode transistors are Bipolar Junction Transistors BJT fabricated from Indium Phosphide. In some embodiments the DAC circuit includes Hetero Junction Bipolar Transistors HBT fabricated from Indium Phosphide and the DAC circuit and the switch are fabricated as components of an integrated circuit. In some further embodiment the cascode transistors are configured as a differential pair of field effect transistors FET in a complementary silicon metal oxide semiconductor CMOS process. In some further embodiment the cascode transistors are configured as a differential pair of field effect transistors in a gallium nitride process. In some further embodiment the cascode transistors are configured as a differential pair of field effect transistors in a Gallium Arsenide process. In some further embodiment the cascode transistors are configured as a differential pair of metal semiconductor field effect transistors in a Gallium Nitride process. In some further embodiments the DAC circuit is configured to generate a signal at the output stage the signal comprising a peak current in the range of 90 milliamps to 200 milliamps and a frequency greater than 40 Gigahertz.

Another example embodiment of the present disclosure provides a communications system including a current mode digital to analog converter DAC circuit to generate an analog signal at an output stage of the DAC for transmission. The communications system further includes a switch comprising a plurality of cascode transistors coupled in parallel to the output stage of the DAC circuit a plurality of control ports each of the control ports coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors a plurality of output ports each output port coupled to one of the cascode transistors. The cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor. The communications system still further includes a plurality of transmitter circuits to transmit the analog signal each of the transmitter circuits coupled to one of the output ports of the switch.

Yet another example embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for fabricating a switched output digital to analog converter. The method includes coupling a plurality of cascode transistors in parallel to an output stage of a current mode digital to analog converter DAC circuit providing a plurality of control ports each of the control ports coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors and providing a plurality of output ports each output port coupled to one of the cascode transistors. The cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor.

Although the following Detailed Description will proceed with reference being made to illustrative embodiments many alternatives modifications and variations thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Generally this disclosure provides techniques for switching the analog output signal of a wide bandwidth current mode Digital to Analog Converter DAC to one of multiple N output paths using a cascode transistor based switch. In some embodiments the DAC and the cascode transistor switch are integrated components of an integrated circuit chip IC fabricated from mixed technologies or material chemistries. For example the DAC may be fabricated using Indium Phosphide technology and the cascode transistor switch may be fabricated using Gallium Nitride technology. The cascode transistor switch is configured to provide a switched signal with reduced loss and improved linearity as will be described in greater detail below compared to conventional switching devices which are generally located external to the DAC IC.

The signal generation circuit may be configured to generate a digital signal of any suitable format for example to convey information intended for ultimate transmission over a wireless medium e.g. as a radio frequency RF signal . The digital signal is provided to DAC circuit which may be configured to convert that signal to an analog form. The N path cascode switch may be configured to route that signal to one of N paths by switching the output of the DAC to circuitry associated with one of N output channels while isolating the remaining channels from the DAC as will be described in greater detail below. Each output channel may include for example a filter circuit etc. configured to filter the analog signal to a desired frequency band and to route that filtered signal to a channel or band processing circuit etc. which may be configured to perform any suitable processing prior to transmission.

Generally a current mode DAC has relatively high output impedance and generates a relatively large current making it feasible to drive a cascode transistor which is biased to an on state when activated in such a way that its input impedance is low from the perspective of the DAC. When the other parallel cascode transistors that couple to non selected or unused output paths are turned off the output impedance of those cascode transistors is substantially increased. This high output impedance of the deactivated cascode transistors is placed in parallel with the low impedance active path and virtually all of the DAC output current is channeled through the single selected output path.

The cascode transistors illustrated in this embodiment are configured in a single ended arrangement as opposed to a differential pair configuration shown below in . In some embodiments the cascode transistors may be configured as High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Nitride GaN e.g. the transistor employs GaN technology . In other embodiments the cascode transistors may be configured as HEMT devices fabricated in Gallium Aresenide GaAs . In other embodiments the cascode transistors may be configured as Bipolar Junction Transistors fabricated from Indium Phosphide InP . In still other embodiments the cascode transistors may be configured as Field Effect Transistors FETs fabricated from silicon. In still other embodiments the cascode transistors may be configured as Field Effect Transistors FETs fabricated from Gallium Arsenide GaAs . In still other embodiments the cascode transistors may be configured as Field Effect Transistors FETs fabricated from Gallium Nitride GaN .

In some embodiments the DAC circuit may be configured to employ Hetero Junction Bipolar Transistors HBT fabricated from Indium Phosphide. The DAC circuit is configured to generate a signal at the output stage which may exhibit a peak current in the range of 90 milliamps to 200 milliamps which may correspond to an output power in the range of 23 to 30 dBm and a frequency greater than 40 Gigahertz GHz .

In some embodiments the DAC circuit and the N path cascode switch may be fabricated as components of an integrated circuit. For example the DAC circuit and the switch may each be fabricated using different fabrication technologies and then combined within a heterogeneous integrated circuit process.

Further advantages of the N path cascode transistor based switch as configured in either single ended or differential over the switch network illustrated in will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. For example the cascode transistor switches generally exhibit reduced loss higher potential switching speeds and improved linearity compared to the phase change switches or MEMS switches of network . Furthermore additional efficiencies e.g. in cost reliability etc. may be obtained by integrating the cascode transistors and into the integrated circuit that hosts the DAC .

As illustrated in in one embodiment switched output DAC fabrication method commences by coupling at operation a plurality of cascode transistors in parallel to an output stage of a current mode digital to analog converter DAC circuit. Next at operation a plurality of control ports is provided. Each of the control ports is coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors. At operation a plurality of output ports is provided. Each output port is coupled to one of the cascode transistors the cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor.

Of course in some embodiments additional operations may be performed as previously described in connection with the system. These additional operations may include for example configuring the cascode transistors as High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Nitride. Additionally in some embodiments the cascode transistors may be configured as Bipolar Junction Transistors or Field Effect Transistors fabricated from Indium Phosphide.

In some embodiments communications system platform may comprise any combination of a processor a memory a storage system an input output I O system a network interface a switched output signal generation system transmitters and antennas . As can be further seen a bus and or interconnect is also provided to allow for communication between the various components listed above and or other components not shown. Platform can be coupled to a network through network interface to allow for communications with other computing devices platforms network elements or resources. Other componentry and functionality not reflected in the block diagram of will be apparent in light of this disclosure and it will be appreciated that other embodiments are not limited to any particular hardware configuration.

Processor can be any suitable processor and may include one or more coprocessors or controllers such as an audio processor or a graphics processing unit to assist in control and processing operations associated with system . In some embodiments the processor may be implemented as any number of processor cores. The processor or processor cores may be any type of processor such as for example a micro processor an embedded processor a digital signal processor DSP a graphics processor GPU a network processor a field programmable gate array or other device configured to execute code. The processors may be multithreaded cores in that they may include more than one hardware thread context or logical processor per core. Processor may be implemented as a complex instruction set computer CISC or a reduced instruction set computer RISC processor.

Memory can be implemented using any suitable type of digital storage including for example flash memory and or random access memory RAM . In some embodiments the memory may include various layers of memory hierarchy and or memory caches as are known to those of skill in the art. Memory may be implemented as a volatile memory device such as but not limited to a RAM dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM device. Storage system may be implemented as a non volatile storage device such as but not limited to one or more of a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a universal serial bus USB drive an optical disk drive tape drive an internal storage device an attached storage device flash memory battery backed up synchronous DRAM SDRAM and or a network accessible storage device. In some embodiments storage may comprise technology to increase the storage performance enhanced protection for valuable digital media when multiple hard drives are included.

I O system may be configured to interface between various I O devices and other components of computer system . I O devices may include but not be limited to a display element microphone speaker keyboard mouse etc.

Network interface module can be any appropriate network chip or chipset which allows for wired and or wireless connection between other components of computer system and or the network thereby enabling system to communicate with other local and or remote computing systems servers and or resources. Wired communication may conform to existing or yet to developed standards such as for example Ethernet. Wireless communication may conform to existing or yet to developed standards such as for example cellular communications including LTE Long Term Evolution Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth and or Near Field Communication NFC . Exemplary wireless networks include but are not limited to wireless local area networks wireless personal area networks wireless metropolitan area networks cellular networks and satellite networks.

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the various components of the system may be combined or integrated in a system on a chip SoC architecture. In some embodiments the components may be hardware components firmware components software components or any suitable combination of hardware firmware or software.

Switched output signal generation system is configured to switch an analog output signal of a DAC to one of N output channels using a cascode transistor based switch as described previously. Switched output signal generation system may include any or all of the components illustrated in described above. Switched output signal generation system may also interact with other components of platform that are configured for communicating over a wireless shared media such as one or more transmitters antennas amplifiers filters and so forth. An example of wireless shared media may include portions of a wireless spectrum such as the radio frequency spectrum and so forth. Of course other signal transmission mechanisms are also possible such as for example conversion of the analog signal from an electrical signal to an optical signal for transmission over an optical fiber network.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements for example transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices digital signal processors FPGAs logic gates registers semiconductor devices chips microchips chipsets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power level heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or process of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities for example electronic within the registers and or memory units of the computer system into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the registers memory units or other such information storage transmission or displays of the computer system. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The terms circuit or circuitry as used in any embodiment herein may comprise for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry such as computer processors comprising one or more individual instruction processing cores state machine circuitry and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. The circuitry may include a processor and or controller configured to execute one or more instructions to perform one or more operations described herein. The instructions may be embodied as for example an application software firmware etc. configured to cause the circuitry to perform any of the aforementioned operations. Software may be embodied as a software package code instructions instruction sets and or data recorded on a computer readable storage device. Software may be embodied or implemented to include any number of processes and processes in turn may be embodied or implemented to include any number of threads etc. in a hierarchical fashion. Firmware may be embodied as code instructions or instruction sets and or data that are hard coded e.g. nonvolatile in memory devices. The circuitry may collectively or individually be embodied as circuitry that forms part of a larger system for example an integrated circuit IC an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a system on chip SoC desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers servers smart phones etc. Other embodiments may be implemented as software executed by a programmable control device. As described herein various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or any combination thereof. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by an ordinarily skilled artisan however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments. In addition although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described herein. Rather the specific features and acts described herein are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The following examples pertain to further embodiments from which numerous permutations and configurations will be apparent.

Example 1 is a switch comprising a plurality of cascode transistors coupled in parallel to an output stage of a current mode digital to analog converter DAC circuit a plurality of control ports each of the control ports coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors and a plurality of output ports each output port coupled to one of the cascode transistors wherein the cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor.

Example 2 includes the subject matter of Example 1 wherein the cascode transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Nitride.

Example 3 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 and 2 wherein the cascode transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Arsenide.

Example 4 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 3 wherein the cascode transistors are Bipolar Junction Transistors fabricated from Indium Phosphide.

Example 5 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 4 wherein the cascode transistors are Field Effect Transistors fabricated from Silicon.

Example 6 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 5 wherein the cascode transistors are Field Effect Transistors fabricated from Gallium Nitride.

Example 7 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 6 wherein the cascode transistors are Field Effect Transistors fabricated from Gallium Arsenide.

Example 8 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 7 wherein the DAC circuit comprises Hetero Junction Bipolar Transistors HBT fabricated from Indium Phosphide.

Example 9 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 8 wherein the DAC circuit and the switch are fabricated based on different fabrication technologies and combined within a heterogeneous integrated circuit process.

Example 10 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 9 wherein each of the cascode transistors are configured as a differential pair of transistors.

Example 11 includes the subject matter of Examples 1 10 wherein the DAC circuit is configured to generate a signal at the output stage the signal comprising a peak current in the range of 90 milliamps to 200 milliamps and a frequency greater than 40 Gigahertz.

Example 12 is a communications system comprising a current mode digital to analog converter DAC circuit to generate an analog signal at an output stage of the DAC for transmission. The communications system also includes a switch comprising a plurality of cascode transistors coupled in parallel to the output stage of the DAC circuit a plurality of control ports each of the control ports coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors a plurality of output ports each output port coupled to one of the cascode transistors wherein the cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor. The communications system further includes a plurality of transmitter circuits to transmit the analog signal each of the transmitter circuits coupled to one of the output ports of the switch.

Example 13 includes the subject matter of Example 12 wherein the cascode transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Nitride or Gallium Arsenide.

Example 14 includes the subject matter of Examples 12 and 13 wherein the cascode transistors are Bipolar Junction Transistors fabricated from Indium Phosphide.

Example 15 includes the subject matter of Examples 12 14 wherein the cascode transistors are Field Effect Transistors fabricated from Silicon or Gallium Nitride or Gallium Arsenide.

Example 16 includes the subject matter of Examples 12 15 wherein the DAC circuit comprises Hetero Junction Bipolar Transistors HBT fabricated from Indium Phosphide.

Example 17 includes the subject matter of Examples 12 16 wherein each of the cascode transistors are configured as a differential pair of transistors.

Example 18 includes the subject matter of Examples 12 17 wherein the DAC circuit generated analog signal comprises a peak current in the range of 90 milliamps to 200 milliamps and a frequency greater than 40 Gigahertz.

Example 19 includes the subject matter of Examples 12 18 further comprising a plurality of bandpass filter circuits each of the filter circuits coupled between one of the output ports of the switch and the associated transmitter circuit.

Example 20 is a method for fabricating a switched output digital to analog converter. The method comprises coupling a plurality of cascode transistors in parallel to an output stage of a current mode digital to analog converter DAC circuit providing a plurality of control ports each of the control ports coupled to a gate of one of the cascode transistors and providing a plurality of output ports each output port coupled to one of the cascode transistors wherein the cascode transistors are configured to switch the output stage of the DAC to the output port of the transistor in response to a routing control signal applied to the control port of the transistor.

Example 21 includes the subject matter of Example 20 further comprising configuring the cascode transistors as High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMT fabricated from Gallium Nitride or Gallium Arsenide.

Example 22 includes the subject matter of Examples 20 and 21 further comprising configuring the cascode transistors as Bipolar Junction Transistors fabricated from Indium Phosphide.

Example 23 includes the subject matter of Examples 20 22 further comprising configuring the cascode transistors as Field Effect Transistors fabricated from Silicon or Gallium Nitride or Gallium Arsenide.

Example 24 includes the subject matter of Examples 20 23 wherein the DAC circuit comprises Hetero Junction Bipolar Transistors HBT fabricated from Indium Phosphide.

Example 25 includes the subject matter of Examples 20 24 further comprising configuring each of the cascode transistors as a differential pair of transistors.

Example 26 includes the subject matter of Examples 20 25 further comprising fabricating the DAC circuit and the switch based on different fabrication technologies and combining the DAC circuit and the switch within a heterogeneous integrated circuit process.

Example 27 includes the subject matter of Examples 20 26 further comprising configuring the DAC circuit to generate a signal at the output stage the signal comprising a peak current in the range of 90 milliamps to 200 milliamps and a frequency greater than 40 Gigahertz.

The terms and expressions which have been employed herein are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof and it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the claims. Accordingly the claims are intended to cover all such equivalents. Various features aspects and embodiments have been described herein. The features aspects and embodiments are susceptible to combination with one another as well as to variation and modification as will be understood by those having skill in the art. The present disclosure should therefore be considered to encompass such combinations variations and modifications. It is intended that the scope of the present disclosure be limited not be this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto. Future filed applications claiming priority to this application may claim the disclosed subject matter in a different manner and may generally include any set of one or more elements as variously disclosed or otherwise demonstrated herein.

