---

title: Methods and systems for multi-unit real estate management
abstract: Systems and methods for access control management designed for multi-unit buildings are provided. The disclosed systems can use mobile devices, a local mesh network, access control devices, and wireless communication to facilitate multi-unit real estate management. Mobile devices can download and use credentials to access appropriate areas and units in a building through local wireless communications with access control devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09437063&OS=09437063&RS=09437063
owner: Latchable, Inc.
number: 09437063
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150105
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 923 643 entitled A SYSTEM OF MULTI UNIT REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT filed on Jan. 4 2014 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for access control management designed for multi unit buildings.

An ongoing need exists to manage access for parties involved in the occupation and operation of multi unit buildings. Access management can have significant implications for example on overall security legal liability and personal comfort. Security of multi unit buildings is an important and complicated issue specifically the management of keys that can grant access to building units and common spaces. Each individual unit in the building can have different access control requirements and occupants or other individuals related to operations and maintenance of these buildings may periodically need to access different facilities within a building to perform particular functions for example package delivery or cleaning.

Over time a variety of systems have emerged to help manage these types of environments. Prior art physical key management systems while effective when operated properly can be costly and unwieldy for the majority of users. For example the installation cost can be high as well as the cost and time associated with training employees on the system. In addition high ongoing costs associated with maintenance and poor adherence to the system policies can render those systems ineffective.

Other prior art systems provide digital access control management through radio frequency identification RFID or other types of magnetic or electronic keys that are centrally controlled by a management interface. Such prior art systems allow door control and management to take place from a central server while users can authenticate and get access through the use of numeric keypads and card readers on site. These systems require locally deployed management hardware which creates security risks. For example numeric keypads often become insecure when numeric codes are shared between authorized and non authorized parties as a form of convenience.

Using biometric identifiers for authentication purposes is an alternative to access control PIN codes or badges. However the use of biometric locks can be hard to administer in a multi unit context. For example it can be complicated to collect biometric data such as fingerprints and store and program them into the access control system. Moreover because of the extra security requirements associated with storage of sensitive biometric data the storage of biometric data can be cost prohibitive for typical building owners. In addition users may become uncomfortable when they are required to provide biometric data for authentication and storage.

Other prior art systems utilize mobile phones or other mobile devices as physical identifiers for single owner buildings or single units. These systems allow a user s mobile phone to serve as an authenticating identifier when interacting with access control systems through either a network connection or a locally transmitted radio frequency connection. The systems that utilize mobile devices often require a persistent internet connection to operate which may be suitable for single owner buildings. However this can become rather problematic for multi unit buildings.

Bluetooth is another communication standard employed in some prior art systems to provide tracking suitable for following users inside a defined space using a Bluetooth enabled device. However in those systems Bluetooth communication is merely used to track a user to create a timeline of activity for the user through silent and imperceptible handshakes between a user s device and hardware installed within a geographic area. Other prior art systems utilize Bluetooth technology to distribute and manage keys however they require that access control points be centrally updated with new information to update new keys and users being added to the system. Finally other Bluetooth enabled prior art systems use rotating authentication credentials that don t require updates from a central server however they have security risks.

Accordingly there is a need for a secure access management system for multi unit buildings that can control the interactions between occupants guests service providers and building owners that is not provided by existing prior art systems.

Systems and methods for secure access control management are provided that include access control points mobile devices a local mesh network and a unified credential system.

According to aspects of the invention an exemplary access control management system can include a plurality of access control devices each comprising a wireless transceiver and a wireless transmitter. Each access control device can communicate with a mobile device when the mobile device is in range of the access control device and control a locking mechanism in response to wireless signals received from the mobile device. The access control devices and mobile devices in range of any access control device in the system can form a local mesh network. In the local mesh network the access control devices can communicate with mobile devices and with other access control devices in the system. The mobile devices can store credentials that can control access to one or more access control devices and can unlock the locking mechanisms controlled by the one or more access control devices. According to aspects of the invention mobile devices of other approved users can receive credentials to their mobile devices that can also grant permission to unlock the locking mechanisms controlled by the one or more access control devices. The mobile devices can also store a system update and can be configured to transmit the system update to access control devices in range through wireless signals. The access control devices can transmit the received system update to other access control devices in range through the local mesh network.

According to alternative embodiments of the invention an exemplary method for access control management can include providing a plurality of access control devices each comprising a wireless transceiver and a wireless transmitter each capable of communicating with a mobile device when the mobile device is in range of the access control device and controlling a locking mechanism in response to wireless signals received from the mobile device. The method can also include forming a local mesh network by coupling access control devices in range of each other and mobile devices in range of any access control device in the system. The method can also include storing by the mobile device credentials that can control access to one or more access control devices and unlock the locking mechanisms controlled by the one or more access control devices in response to wireless signals transmitted by the mobile device. The method can also include providing credentials to mobile devices of other approved users that are given permission to unlock the locking mechanisms controlled by the one or more access control devices. The method can also include storing by the mobile device a system update and transmitting the system update to access control devices in range of the mobile device through wireless signals. The method can also transmitting by the access control device the received system update to other access control devices in range through the local mesh network.

According to alternative embodiments of the invention a mobile device for providing access control management can be configured to communicate with a plurality of access control devices each comprising a wireless transceiver and a wireless transmitter when the mobile device is in range of the access control device. The mobile device can also be configured to control a locking mechanism in one or more access control devices in range through wireless signals sent from the mobile device. The mobile device can also be configured to enter a local mesh network of access control devices in range of each other and in range of other mobile devices. The mobile device can also be configured to store credentials that can control access to one or more access control devices and unlock the locking mechanisms controlled by the one or more access control devices. The mobile device can also be configured to provide credentials to mobile devices of other approved users that are given permission to unlock the locking mechanisms controlled by the one or more access control devices. The mobile device can also be configured to store a system update and transmit the system update to access control devices in range of the mobile device through wireless signals.

According to embodiments of the present invention methods and systems for access control management designed for multi unit buildings are provided. An exemplary system can use mobile devices a local mesh network installed access control hardware communication standards and a credentialing layer to displace physical key management systems. In addition the disclosed systems can eliminate the need for physical key or access cards and rekeying requirements faced by many operators in the multi unit real estate management industry.

According to embodiments of the invention the local mesh network can connect the access control devices with the mobile devices to activate various functions as described in detail below. According to aspects of the invention a credential can be a digital file of lines of encrypted code. The credential can provide authentication and grant access to the user when it is paired with the user mobile device. For example access control device can grant access to a unit that can be owned or rented by a tenant that carries mobile device and stores the appropriate credential. When the user approaches their unit access control device and user mobile device can wirelessly communicate to grant the user access e.g. unlock the door to the unit. Moreover a single credential can grant the user access to all buildings and establishments that implement the disclosed system. For example the user can use the credential stored in their mobile device to access their office their gym their private club or any area that has installed access control devices that can control access to secure areas. The user can conveniently manage all of their access guest and service provider provisioning through the same interface e.g. an app running on their mobile phone or a website.

According to aspects of the invention an exemplary system architecture is illustrated in . shows server in communication with database and also in communication with building manager device user mobile device guest mobile device and service provider device . Server can generate and manage credentials that can be stored in database . A building manager using device for example a computer tablet or cell phone can request from server to generate a credential for a user for example a new building tenant according to access provisions specific for the user. The building manager can specify the access provisions e.g. granting access to user unit granting access to building gym etc. for the particular user when requesting the credential generation. The building manager can modify the access provisions at any time for example when the user gym membership has expired the building manager can request from server a new credential for the user through an interface running on building manager device . The user can receive from server and can store the credential in mobile device . Server can allow different permissions to users according to provisions specified by the building manager. For example the server can enable the user to grant to their guests access to their building. A user can request using an application running on mobile device from server to generate a credential for their guest with mobile device . For example the user can send to the guest an invitation to an event taking place in their building using the access control management app. According to aspects of the invention the credential can be requested automatically Once server generates the credential it can send it to guest mobile device . The guest mobile device and the generated credential will be paired and can provide authentication of the guest. Then the guest can access the building and unit using their mobile device . For example the server can enable the user to grant to their guests access to their building. The user can also request using the application running on mobile device from server to generate a credential for a service provider with mobile device . The service provider mobile device and the generated credential will be paired and can provide authentication of the service provider.

Persons of ordinary skill would understand that the disclosed systems and methods are enabled by the use of mobile devices and more specifically by the particular characteristics of mobile devices and how people interact with their mobile devices. For example people carry a mobile device with them all the time. Mobile devices are most of the time turned on and can passively communicate with sensors in their environment without requiring the user s active engagement. Moreover mobile devices have a wide variety of radio frequency communication capabilities through built in hardware that make them ideal for communicating through different types of communication standards. Mobile devices can install and run applications or apps that enable functionality not available through a web browser operating on a computer for example by utilizing the device unique hardware attributes such as radios cameras and secure biometric identifying sensors. In addition mobile devices can be automatically updated in the background to provide updated secure keys instructions and permissions without requiring active user engagement.

According to embodiments of the invention the local mesh network obviates the need for a persistent internet connection. As discussed above other prior art approaches require that access control devices are always connected to the internet. In contrast the disclosed system can link access control devices with mobile devices through a local mesh network. The mobile devices can provide a bridge to the internet for the entire mesh network. This allows operation of the access control system at low cost and with minimal power requirements compared for example to a system that requires a persistent internet connection to operate and update the access control devices. In the described system the access control devices can be connected to each other and the system can utilize the handshakes performed between user devices and access control devices to pass any system updates to the access control devices. User devices typically have internet connections and sufficient capacity to passively pass system update packets through the required handshake procedures with the installed access control hardware. Therefore there is no additional requirement for a persistent internet connection installation just for the access control devices.

An exemplary access control device is illustrate in . Specifically access control device can include a wireless communications module configured to communicate with user mobile devices and other access control devices in its proximity through a wireless transmitter and a wireless receiver. The communication from the user device can relate to granting the user of the mobile device access to a particular area or unit. In addition the communication from the user device and other access control devices can also relate to system updates. Access control device can also include a long life battery and a handle to move latch and unlock the door s passage lock deadbolt or other locking mechanisms for example to a user s unit. Access control device can also include a digital display to provide the user with information. Persons of skill in the art would understand that the access control device of is for illustration purposes only and that other types of access control devices can be used.

According to aspects of the invention each access control device can have a unique identification ID that can identify them in the system. For example the access control IDs can be based on the MAC address of the access control device radio. Server can maintain a table of cryptographic keys that can be indexed by the access control device ID. Each credential associated with an access control device ID can be configured during installation into the appropriate lock. When access to a lock is requested the appropriate credential is transmitted securely to an application running on a mobile device for example using a secure transport such as SSL TLS and can be stored in the mobile device. The credential can be used to generate an authenticated unlock request for example using an unlock protocol. When a user requests credentials from the server for example for a guest or a service provider the server can determine the appropriate credential to send to the guest or service provider. The server determines the appropriate credential based on the authenticated user who is requesting them. For example the user can be authenticated in the system through user account authentication e.g. by providing user details when setting up an account with the system.

According to embodiments of the invention the systems and methods described herein negate the need for physical key management. For example the system enables building managers to create account holders within a given multi unit building irrespective of physical key issuance. Once a user tenant has an account they are responsible for managing their own keys whether that takes the form of a mobile device or a supplied third party piece of radio frequency capable hardware. Accordingly building managers may no longer be burdened for example with guest access management because the disclosed system can make user tenants accountable for all aspects of guest access management.

This is illustrated in generally at . When a guest of a unit owner tenant in a multi unit building arrives at the building he can request access to the unit step . The guest and the owner then can enter a transaction step for example through a mobile device application or app. As an illustrative example the request for access from the guest can appear as a notification from an app running on a user mobile device. The owner can then determine whether to grant access to the guest or not steps and . If the owner decides to grant access to the guest the owner can optionally specify a time period during which the guest will have access to the unit step . Then the guest receives the necessary credentials for the building step which would authorize a guest s mobile device to provide access to the building and all necessary access points until the user unit step . When the guest mobile device moves within proximity of the access control point of the user unit step the access control point sensor can detect the guest device step which would allow the guest access to the unit step . Since the user can receive the notification and grant access to a guest through an application running on a mobile device the user can grant access to the guest from anywhere without being necessary for the user to be present in the unit. Persons of ordinary skill would understand that guests can be granted access by the tenant even before they arrive at the building and that access can by automatically granted for example in the case of an authorized delivery or repair.

In addition to providing access to a unit users can provision access credentials to their guests with appropriate restrictions allowing them to delineate which facilities the guest can access across the entire building with time limitations and other restrictive characteristics. This can enhance the user experience for both those occupying the building and those visiting the building creating value for the building manager.

According to embodiments of the invention the system can be viewed and administered through a specialized and secure portal to a server on any number of devices including computers mobile devices and other interfaces. For example building managers and users with appropriate privileges can provide remove or modify privileges and access to guests and service providers through a webpage or application that is securely connected to the server.

As discussed above some PIN based prior art systems face security challenges because numeric codes can be easily shared between authorized and non authorized parties. While it is still possible that a user would share their mobile device with a guest for purposes of authenticating the indispensable and multiple use nature of the mobile devices would provide a limiting element to this type of behavior. Security is important to both operators and users in a multi unit building and the system described herein allows for a wide variety of security levels to be implemented that can further enhance the security beyond the advantages conveyed by simply using a user s mobile device for authentication. These security elements range from a single level authentication the presence of the user s mobile device to a three level authentication activated through the presence of the user s mobile device the use of a remembered password possibly entered on the user s mobile device and biometric scanning possibly provided through the user s mobile device . This flexible security capacity can be activated on a building wide basis by the manager or by an individual user when setting their own preferences and preferences for their guests.

Alternatively the user can select a two level authentication which can require authentication through proximity and through entry of a PIN . For example a guest with a mobile device that has received the proper credentials can be granted access to the unit when the mobile device and the access control device are within an appropriate distance and after the guest enters the PIN for example in a prompt on the mobile device. The PIN can be provided to the guest by the user. According to aspects of the invention users can set individual pins for each guest such that a particular guest mobile device is paired with a unique PIN for increased security. Access control device can also include a digital display to provide the user with information and an input method to communicate with the device.

Finally the user can select a three level authentication which can require authentication through proximity through entry of a PIN and through the use of biometric identification. For example a guest with a mobile device that has received the proper credentials can be granted access to the unit when the mobile device and the access control device are within an appropriate distance after the guest enters the PIN for example in a prompt on the mobile device and after the guest identifies himself through the use of biometric identification for example on the mobile device.

According to embodiments of the invention access credentials can easily be extended to service personnel to perform routine functions when the user is away. Large waiting windows typically provided by service providers for example cable company technicians have been a major source of user frustration. The disclosed systems can reduce the time burden placed on the consumers of these services. A user can request service from a particular service provider receive an approximate time window for that service to be performed and accordingly provision access for that period without the need for the user to remain in their unit. This can be valuable to a wide variety of service providers for example housekeeping service providers grocery delivery services and other sensitive package delivery services. All of these service providers would ideally have access to the secured area assigned to a particular user for purposes of performing their service function and the disclosed system can dramatically increase the ease with which they could perform their service.

According to embodiments of the invention the system can incorporate an application programming interface API suitable for auto provisioning access in accordance with relevant purchases. For example when a user can order groceries from Amazon.com the API can automatically provide access to their building their apartment and even appropriate rooms at check out to facilitate the delivery of their perishable groceries directly to their cold storage as part of the checkout process. The API can also have significant application within the hospitality management industry with users being able to secure access to their rented rooms for example via AirBNB or similar services and hotel rooms at checkout eliminating the present hassle associated with key procurement and exchange between renter and owner. The disclosed system can also provide real time updates to all concerned parties regarding the behavior of all guests during their time on the building premises.

Based on the discussion above an exemplary method for providing access to a multi unit building is illustrated in . Specifically a user can register with a service provider step for example through a service access provider website for a service to be performed such as cable service installation. In addition the user can configure particular instructions for the service provider step . The user can register delivery or other instructions in either a proprietary application with the service provider directly or via an API relationship between the disclosed system and the service provider. Then the user can schedule the service and can grant access to the provider via a digital credentialing mechanism according to the scheduled time step . For example the user can use an application running on a mobile device to decide what type of credentials to provide and to set the appropriate restrictions around these credentials. Types of available credentials can include a Bluetooth based credential a digital copy of a physical key KeyMe an alphanumeric password or even a pre programmed digital radio frequency credential.

The disclosed system then can synchronize the digital credentials and instructions to appropriate service provider mobile devices step . Subsequently the service provider mobile devices can receive appropriate instructions and credentials that will provide access to the user unit step . For example the service provider can receive a password over the phone a digital credential downloaded to a proprietary piece of hardware e.g. a UPS handheld device a digital credential downloaded to a service provided smartphone a text message or an email with instructions.

The user devices can optionally receive notifications such as push notifications emails texts or calls informing them that the appropriate credentials for the service provider have been received by the service provider devices step . In addition other appropriate connected devices for example access control devices for the building entrance and the user unit can also receive the appropriate instructions and credentials to allow for the service provisions step . The credentials can be matched through a set of pre programmed parameters on a connected device or via a message from a network.

As discussed above the user s presence in the unit is not required therefore the user can leave their location once service provision is scheduled and credentials and instructions have been distributed step . The service provider can arrive at the location to provide service and can utilize the credentials and instructions for getting access into the user unit step . Once the service provider devices and the access control devices are within an appropriate distance the credentials from the service provider devices can grant access to the service provider according to the actions specified by the user step . For example the access control devices can performs functions like unlocking locking turning off a thermostat turning on a video recording system or activating additional sensors. The access control devices can also notify the user of the service provider activity and activate other devices and services on location in response to that activity step . According to embodiments of the invention the access control devices can further ensure appropriate service provider behavior for example through monitoring step . Abnormal or suspicious behavior can be reported to the user law enforcement or other service providers as appropriate.

The disclosed systems and methods can provide unique advantages to operators of multi unit buildings for example tenant activity tracking around various amenities entrance tracking for insurance and security purposes access management for service and delivery personnel behavior tracking that may help assist operators in retaining or acquiring new tenants secure communications and local services in instances of natural disaster.

Specifically the disclosed systems can provide a real time view to building management of all guests expected to visit and all guests currently visiting through individual users guest logs and instructions. This can be especially important in multi unit buildings whereby the disclosed system can track which doors the user and the user s guests have accessed and which path they have taken within the building for the purposes of providing the highest degree of security to the user and other guests on premises.

As discussed above the access control devices can have nearly permanent access to internet connectivity through the handshakes with the user mobile devices. This can eliminate the need for the system to have a dedicated internet connection and creates a system of connectivity that can be insulated from service outages. The users devices in the system will likely be provided through a host of different service providers therefore creating redundancy in case one service provider fails to provide access at any given moment.

Even though the system can have nearly permanent access to the internet the disclosed systems and methods can robustly manage access even during prolonged periods of no internet connectivity. For example keys or mobile devices can be provisioned and sent to guests or service providers without the need to update or notify the access control devices. If for some reason the system does not access a network connection between the time of key provision and guest arrival the guest s mobile device can actually supply the update packet to the access control device and the network when utilizing their key on site.

An exemplary method for updating components of an access control management system is illustrated in . Periodically the system can make available software updates for connected devices for example access control devices step when these devices require or would benefit from a software update to improve or enhance their functionality. After a software update becomes available when user guest or service provider mobile devices are connected to the internet they can be notified of the software updates by the system step . The mobile devices can download the software update for the connected devices step and can store the update in their memory step . The downloading and storing process can happen on the background and users and service providers can perform their normal activities step without requiring any special user action to update the devices. When the mobile devices are within an appropriate distance from an access control device they can determine whether the particular access control device requires a software update step . In that case the mobile devices can send the stored software update to the access control device step and the access control device can receive the update step . Once the access control device receives the update it can transmit the software update to other access control devices in its proximity that also require the update step . In this manner other connected devices can receive and install the required software updates step .

According to embodiments of the invention this data transfer would take place in a way that is completely transparent to the user with update packets being embedded in the handshakes already required for entering the building or performing other functions. Through this mechanism update packets would be handled appropriately throughout the entirety of the mesh network with all access control and other system elements being updated through the network connection provided by any user s device interacting with any other part of the system.

Referring to a user mobile device can communicate with access control device for access control or other purposes. Access control device can validate the handshake and receive a secure update packet in the same handshake from a remote management server via the user s network connection. Access control device can then pass that update to access control device for distribution to another access control device on the same mesh network. In this way an interaction with any piece of the network can update the entire network. This functionality can be important for guest management general operational efficiency and also for preventing any issues associated with lost or missing authentication devices. According to aspects of the invention a mobile device and an access control device can either be in a central master mode or a peripheral slave mode. A device in a central master mode can send software updates to other devices in peripheral slave mode within range. Once a device in peripheral slave mode receives the software update then it can switch to a central master mode. The devices are able to switch between central and peripheral mode as necessary to receive and send updates.

The disclosed system can mitigate the negative impact that the theft or misplacement of a mobile device or other authenticator would have on the operation of the system. If an authenticating element is misplaced a user can report the event to a central server for example through an internet interface a cellular interface or in person. Once the central server receives the report it can push a system update to the impacted network to modify or delete the access credentials afforded to the misplaced or stolen device. This update can be transmitted via the methods described above.

According to embodiments of the invention the system allows encrypted communication between the system devices. illustrates an exemplary device communication encryption flow for a device that can either be connected or disconnected to the mesh network. A connected or disconnected device can be pre programmed with an encryption key step . For example an access control device can be programmed at the factory or at setup with security keys which can be updated as necessary. A user or service provider mobile device can be programmed with the ability to relay encrypted packets or other credentials step . Users or service providers can download an application that can be pre programmed or updated with appropriate credentials. Then a user or service provider mobile device can receive a credential for example an encrypted packet and set of instructions from a server for example server or other device granting certain privileges and denoting certain access restrictions step . For example the downloaded application can be updated via invitations to interact with other devices and can receive different capabilities based on the preferences of the user sharing the invitation. After the mobile device receives the encrypted packet it can store the encrypted packet for later use step e.g. when the mobile device comes in contact with an associated connected device. The user or service provider device can sense a connected or disconnected device in proximity step and provide the encrypted packet or instructions step . Then the device can process encrypted packet and can perform the required function without the need to connect to the network to gain additional information step .

The disclosed system can also track the amenities and facilities utilization across a multi unit building. Building managers can spend significant portions of their budgets on amenity spending to retain users. The disclosed system can quantify amenity usage across an entire building groups of buildings or an entire real estate portfolio through handshake tracking between users devices and local systems. By positioning access control devices and other sensors within the larger envisioned system architecture a complete record of building utilization can be generated. This information can be used to determine for example how many users in a particular building utilize the on site gym facilities for purposes of assessing the relative value of that service or other such purposes that can be useful. Building managers can find this desirable in ascertaining how to retain current or attract new users manage amenities and spend their resources.

The complete record of building utilization can be facilitated by background handshaking with installed hardware throughout the building with the user s activity remaining wholly uninterrupted by these background processes. Through the creation of this record the system can detect if credentials are being used in a suspicious manner. For example the system can detect that a particular user arrived and stayed at their unit and then use this information to tag the attempted use of the user s credentials at one of the building s other access points. If this is determined to be suspicious the system can alert the building manager. By directly tying access to the location of users within the multi unit building the system can overcome the security risks created by other systems that are reliant on non traceable or non associated access credentials. By tying authentication to a user s mobile device it becomes far less likely that users will share their access privileges through any other means aside from those prescribed by the building management system. This tight connection between users and authentication devices creates a better audit trail for building managers.

The tracking information of building utilization can also have significant benefits for users of the building as they would be able to view utilization data in real time to make decisions about when to use certain amenities. For example a user can use their mobile device to access information from the local mesh network about how many people are using the on site laundry facility at that given moment. This can enable the user to improve their amenity utilization experience by timing it such that they avoid wait times and other issues associated with over use of certain resources at certain times.

An exemplary method of tracking information of building utilization is illustrated in . Users can perform their regular activities in the building for example visit the lounge area the terrace the gym the laundry room while carrying their mobile devices step . The access control devices located throughout the building can track active and passive activities of users across the building step . For example an active activity can be accessing the laundry room. Passive activities can include for example the presence of five tenants in the gym area of a building the presence of ten tenants on the roof deck of the building or the presence of three tenants in the lobby of the building who can be identified by the unique signature of their phone. The system can generate an active and passive activity log and can transmit the log to a server for example via a user s mobile device step . The activity log can be analyzed anonymized as appropriate and made available to the building managers and the users step . For example the users can see the activity log on their mobile device step . Based on the information they can make appropriate decisions for example avoid wait times at busy locations in the building step . In addition user behavior can be provided to building management to improve building operations step .

Building management can change amenities to adapt to the analyzed data step . In addition this information can be utilized when designing new buildings and or proposing renovations to existing buildings step .

According to embodiments of the invention the user can also set smart triggers to notify them about building events or to notify them about the user s guests behavior in the building. For example a notification can be provided when a guest enters the building s front door arrives at the individual unit door or when they access other facilities within the building. These smart triggers can be activated within the envisioned platform or through incorporation with other services for example the if this then that IFTTT protocol.

While many of these events associated triggers and actions can help users behave more efficiently or improve their quality of life there are also security advantages provided by this type of system in relation to building wide notifications. In the event of a network service disruption natural disaster or other catastrophic event the disclosed system can provide key functionality through the local mesh network by pushing updates to users devices via the building s network. In the event of natural disasters the disclosed system can also track the location of building occupants in real time for rescue purposes. By activating in building access control devices and user devices mesh network capacities the local network can potentially search and locate building occupants by looking for their radio frequency identifier. This capacity can allow rescue workers and building managers to ascertain if there are individuals left behind in a particular building and engage them through their devices.

The local network communications capacity of the system can also be leveraged to provide communications between tenants in the building without the need for a persistent network connection. This can provide many capacities to a building operator or user such as local social networks advertising and promotional communications. For example a user can receive a message from another user via the local network allowing both parties to know that the other is co located on premises. This localized network can extend an existing network s functionality and create new functionality over time.

Persons skilled in the art would understand that the disclosed system can be installed in existing buildings as well as new buildings. illustrates an exemplary method for installing and configuring the disclosed system. Access control devices are first installed at one or more locations of the building step and are registered to a central server step . Then the central server can assigns ownership and credentials over access control devices based on instructions from the building manager for example through a user interface step . Subsequently users can be assigned by the building manager as owners of the access control devices step . Users can delegate credentials and instructions to their mobile devices and to other user and service provider devices step . As discussed above credentials and instructions can be sent to guest or service provider mobile devices via some digital means of transmission step and mobile devices can download and store the credentials for future use.

According to embodiments of the present invention illustrate exemplary screenshots of an application running on a mobile device for providing access control management. Specifically shows exemplary screenshots and that can provide tracking information to the user of the mobile device. For example screenshot provides access information for example when the user accessed an access control device. In the particular example the application can provide information relevant to the Front Door the Gym and the Garage access control points . Screenshot provides specific access information relevant only to the Front Door access control point.

Although the disclosed subject matter has been described and illustrated in the foregoing exemplary embodiments it is understood that the present invention has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of implementation of the disclosed subject matter may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed subject matter.

