---

title: Inventory system with climate-controlled inventory
abstract: A system includes a climate-controlled inventory holder, a mobile drive unit, and a management module. The climate-controlled inventory holder is configured to control a climate of one or more inventory items stored by the inventory holder. The mobile drive unit is operable to transport the climate-controlled inventory holder from a first location to a second location based at least in part upon one or more instructions received from a management module. The management module is operable to receive an order for an inventory item, determine that the inventory holder stores the inventory item, and instruct the mobile drive unit to transport the climate-controlled inventory holder from the first location to the second location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185998&OS=09185998&RS=09185998
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09185998
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150302
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 713 835 filed Dec. 13 2012 entitled Inventory System with Climate Controlled Inventory. 

Modern inventory systems such as those in distribution warehouses e commerce warehouses and custom order manufacturing facilities face significant challenges in responding to requests for inventory items. In particular inventory systems face challenges in making efficient use of time space resources in the face of growing demand and tighter shipping schedules. Those challenges are exacerbated in inventory systems that store temperature controlled inventory items such as online grocers that store refrigerated and frozen goods. As a result the ability to fulfill orders in a timely and efficient matter where those orders include requests for ambient inventory items and requests for climate controlled inventory items can be crucial to the success of such inventory systems.

Manufacturers retailers wholesalers distribution centers and other distributors of product or goods which may collectively be referred to as distributors typically maintain an inventory of various items that may be ordered by and shipped to clients or customers. This inventory may be maintained and processed at a materials handling facility or facilities such as distribution centers cross docking facilities and order fulfillment facilities. In one example an online grocer may provide a website from which a customer may order various groceries and or configure a periodic delivery service. When an order is placed or delivery service setup those inventory items may be ordered and retrieved from a storage are of a warehouse or distribution center at the appropriate time for delivery to the customer. In order to facilitate storage management and retrieval of groceries on customer orders online grocers may utilize a warehouse of racks that store groceries in various bins. When an order for a specific product needs to be filled by the grocer a worker typically retrieves the product from the bin where the inventory item is stored. Such grocers may also store refrigerated items such as milk eggs and produce and frozen groceries such as frozen dinners and frozen vegetables. Those types of groceries are typically stored in walk in coolers and freezers. Workers retrieving those groceries may be required to utilize special safety procedures for entering the coolers or freezers such as wearing special clothing and or using a buddy system where one worker remains outside the freezer while another retrieves the desired item. Accordingly retrieval of refrigerated and frozen goods may be more time consuming costly and complicated than retrieving other non refrigerated goods.

Inventory systems of the present disclosure may utilize one or more mobile drive units to automatically retrieve inventory holders from warehouse storage including from temperature controlled zones such as coolers and freezers. The inventory holders may be entire racks of shelves with each shelf having bins for various inventory items. In addition the inventory systems of the present disclosure may include systems for providing climate control to individual inventory holders which may render the use of walk in freezers and coolers optional. For example some inventory holders may be mobile refrigerators and or be cooled by connecting automatically to vents of a centralized heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system installed in the warehouse. Mobile drive units may be self powered robotic devices configured to move freely about the warehouse. Non refrigerated and climate controlled inventory holders may be transported by mobile drive units to a station for performing inventory operations. The station may include a human operator and or automated equipment to remove desired inventory items from the inventory holders and complete orders. The ability for mobile drive units to transport inventory items to a station for performing inventory operations rather than or in addition to workers manually retrieving inventory items from stationary racks may vastly increase efficiency and productivity of the inventory system particularly for cool and frozen goods. For example the capability for mobile drive units to automatically enter and retrieve racks from temperature controlled zones of the warehouse may obviate the time consuming and complicated process of having workers manually enter those zones to retrieve inventory. By utilizing mobile drive units and providing the ability to automatically manage and retrieve refrigerated and frozen inventory items an inventory system may be capable of fulfilling more orders per hour than previous solutions. Mobile drive units may move about the warehouse and or retrieve either types of inventory holders in response to commands and or instructions received from an automated guidance system. For example a management module may control administration and coordination of certain elements and or tasks within the warehouse. The management module may receive orders for inventory items in the warehouse and coordinate task assignments for fulfilling the orders including providing instructions to mobile drive units to transport racks with requested inventory items to an inventory station for completion of an order. The management module may also provide guidance at the inventory station for how the order is to be assembled.

To use a simple illustration in a distribution warehouse for an online grocer the management module may receive an order for several cans of soup fresh lettuce and a frozen dinner. The management module may determine the locations of these items within the racks of storage in the distribution warehouse. The items may for instance be on the shelves of three separate racks. The soup cans may be located on a rack in a room temperature and or ambient climate zone of the warehouse. The fresh lettuce may be located on a rack in a walk in cooler and or in an individually climate controlled inventory holder in the room temperature and or ambient climate zone. The frozen dinner may be located in a walk in cooler and or in an individually climate controlled inventory holder in the room temperature and or ambient climate zone. The management module may issue tasks for three different mobile drive units to retrieve each rack respectively holding the soup lettuce and frozen dinner and for the mobile drive units to transport the racks holding those items to an inventory station where the order for the three items may be packed into one or more boxes for shipment. The management module may also coordinate the delivery of appropriate boxes for each item which may be different depending on the temperature of the item. For example non refrigerated items may be shipped in non insulated boxes while refrigerated or frozen items may be shipped in insulated boxes or containers. In doing so the management module may coordinate the various tasks such that all of the orders received by the management module are fulfilled in an efficient manner.

Technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention include the ability to provide an inventory system that can automatically retrieve both inventory items that are stored at ambient temperatures and inventory items that are stored at cool and or frozen temperatures. For online grocers by providing an inventory system that automatically coordinates the storage and retrieval of ambient temperature inventory and temperature controlled inventory the ability to provide fresh goods and produce in a timely and efficient manner can be vastly increased. The ability for mobile drive units to automatically retrieve racks of inventory from temperature controlled zones of a warehouse may eliminate the need for workers to enter those zones to retrieve inventory thereby increasing efficiency and alleviating the need for complicated safety procedures when entering those zones. Another technical advantage includes the ability to provide a climate controlled inventory holder that can be transported by a mobile drive unit. The ability to use climate controlled inventory holders may allow for inventory systems to store climate controlled inventory holders and non refrigerated inventory holders in the same temperature zone of a warehouse without the need for separately controlled temperature zones for cool and or frozen items such as walk in coolers or freezers. Existing warehouses that include separated temperature zones such as walk in freezers and coolers may be capable of deploying mobile drive units to automatically retrieve inventory stored in the freezers and coolers and or may utilize a combination of inventory holders in walk in coolers and freezers and climate controlled inventory holders in the room temperature and or ambient zone of the warehouse. New warehouses may deploy climate controlled inventory holders and or install walk in coolers or freezers to store temperature controlled inventory. Further technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention may include providing a flexible and scalable inventory storage solution that can be easily adapted to accommodate system growth and modification. Further technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention may include providing a flexible and scalable inventory storage solution that can be easily adapted to accommodate system growth and modification. Other technical advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims.

While specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages. Embodiments of the present invention and its advantages are best understood by referring to wherein like numerals refer to like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

Management module receives and or generates requests and may initiate particular operations involving mobile drive units inventory holders inventory items container holders containers stations and or other elements of inventory system . Management module may select components of inventory system to perform these operations and communicate commands instructions and or other appropriate information to the selected components to facilitate completion of these operations. Management module may receive orders for various inventory items and coordinate and administer various appropriate tasks to fill the orders based on various temperature characteristics of those items. Management module may receive orders from any appropriate system or component and may alternatively or additionally generate tasks and assign tasks to various components of inventory system using any appropriate techniques. In particular embodiments management module generates task assignments based in part on orders including requests for inventory items that management module receives from other components of inventory system and or from external components in communication with management module . Based on the orders management module may identify particular operations to be completed involving inventory items stored or to be stored within inventory system and may represent communication of any suitable form. For example in particular embodiments an order may specify particular inventory items that have been purchased by a customer and that are to be retrieved from inventory system for shipment to the customer. For example those items may include fresh goods and produce ordered through a website of an online grocer. Although the description below discusses embodiments of inventory system that receive orders for various inventory items and management module may receive other orders and or operations requests from any appropriate system or component and may alternatively or additionally generate such orders and or requests itself using any appropriate techniques.

After generating one or more task assignments management module may select appropriate components to complete particular tasks and transmits task assignments to selected components to trigger completion of the relevant tasks. The relevant components then execute their assigned tasks. Each task assignment defines one or more tasks to be completed by a particular component. These tasks may relate to the retrieval storage replenishment and counting of inventory items and or the management of mobile drive units inventory holders climate controlled inventory holders container holders stations and other components of inventory system . Depending on the component and the task to be completed a particular task assignment may identify locations components and or actions associated with the corresponding task and or any other appropriate information to be used by the relevant component in completing the assigned task.

While the appropriate components of inventory system complete assigned tasks management module may interact with the relevant components to ensure the efficient use of space equipment manpower and other resources available to inventory system . For example management module may receive information from the various components of system regarding their current location state and or other characteristics. Based on its knowledge of the location current state and or other characteristics of the various components of inventory system and an awareness of tasks currently being completed management module can generate tasks allot usage of system resources and otherwise direct the completion of tasks by the individual components in a manner that optimizes operation from a system wide perspective. Moreover by relying on a combination of both centralized system wide management and localized component specific decision making particular embodiments of inventory system may be able to support a number of techniques for efficiently executing various aspects of the operation of inventory system involving inventory items cool inventory items and frozen inventory items .

As a result some embodiments of management module may by implementing one or more management techniques described below enhance the efficiency of inventory system and or provide other operational benefits. For example management module may prioritize schedule or otherwise account for the desirability of keeping cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items at or near their respective target temperatures. In particular embodiments inventory items and or may depending on particular embodiments of inventory holder be disconnected from refrigeration while being transported by mobile drive units . Accordingly in some embodiments management module may monitor the temperature of such inventory items and issue reorder and or reprioritize task assignments in order to reduce and or minimize the time such inventory items are not kept at or near target temperatures. It should be noted however that in some embodiments of inventory holder inventory holder may remain connected to a refrigeration while being transported by mobile drive unit . A more detailed description of example operations of management module is discussed below with respect to .

Mobile drive units move inventory holders and or inventory holders between locations within a workspace associated with inventory system . Mobile drive units may represent any devices or components appropriate for use in inventory system based on the characteristics and configuration of inventory holders and or other elements of inventory system . In a particular embodiment of inventory system mobile drive units represent independent self powered robotic devices configured to freely move about the associated workspace. In alternative embodiments mobile drive units represent elements of a tracked inventory system configured to move inventory holder along tracks rails cables or other guidance elements traversing the associated workspace. In such embodiments mobile drive units may receive power through a connection to the guidance elements such as a powered rail.

Mobile drive units may transport inventory holders climate controlled inventory holders and or container holders by docking with and or coupling to a particular holder and moving the holder while docked. For example as illustrated mobile drive units are transporting inventory holder and inventory holder . For sake of simplicity the transportation of inventory holder is described in more detail but the following description may similarly apply to inventory holder and or container holder . Mobile drive units transport inventory holder by moving beneath inventory holder and lifting a docking head that interfaces with a portion of inventory holder . The docking head may be controlled by an actuator of mobile drive unit operable to lift inventory holder when docked. The docking head of mobile drive unit may couple mobile drive unit to inventory holder and or support inventory holder when mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may utilize the docking head to maneuver inventory holder such as by lifting inventory holder propelling inventory holder rotating inventory holder and or moving inventory holder in any other appropriate manner. The docking head of mobile drive unit may also include any appropriate combination of components to facilitate such manipulation of inventory holder . For example in some embodiments a high friction portion may form all or a portion of the docking head which abuts a portion of inventory holder while mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . In such embodiments frictional forces created between the high friction portion of the docking head and a surface of inventory holder may induce translational and rotational movement in inventory holder when mobile drive unit actuates docking head.

In some embodiments mobile drive unit may be capable of rotating its docking head to rotate inventory holder while moving and or while stopped. In addition or in the alternative mobile drive unit may be capable of rotating the docking head independently or as a part of the movement of mobile drive unit as a whole. For example mobile drive unit may rotate inventory holder as mobile drive unit executes a turn such that inventory holder continues to face the original direction of movement. While lifted mobile drive unit may control another actuator or actuators driving power to its wheels. Using the wheel actuators mobile drive unit may be capable of transporting inventory holder while the docking head is lifting inventory holder or while mobile drive unit is undocked and or uncoupled from inventory holder . As illustrated mobile drive unit includes a pair of stabilizer wheels in addition to the motorized wheels powered by one or more actuators.

It should be noted that while a particular method of docking with inventory holder is illustrated mobile drive units may dock with inventory holders by connecting to lifting and or otherwise interacting with inventory holders in any other suitable manner so that when docked mobile drive units are coupled to and or support inventory holders and can move inventory holders . While the description below focuses on particular embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder that are configured to dock in a particular manner alternative embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder may be configured to dock in any manner suitable to allow mobile drive unit to move inventory holder within inventory system . Additionally as noted below in particular embodiments mobile drive units represent all or portions of inventory holders . In such embodiments mobile drive units may not dock with inventory holders before transporting inventory holders and or mobile drive units may each remain continually docked with a particular inventory holder . Moreover as noted above mobile drive unit may be often able to dock with climate controlled inventory holders and container holders in a similar manner as described above for inventory holder .

Mobile drive units may be capable of connecting and or disconnecting particular embodiments of climate controlled inventory holders with refrigerated air and or a power source that powers a refrigeration unit of inventory holder . For example while docked with a particular inventory holder that has an intake vent for connecting to an HVAC system mobile drive units may be capable of aligning the vent of the particular inventory holder with an outlet vent of the HVAC system at a storage or other location in inventory system . As another example mobile drive units may be capable of aligning electrical contacts on inventory holder that power an on board electric refrigeration unit of inventory holder with an electrical outlet at a storage or other location in inventory system . A more detailed explanation of the operation of mobile drive units with respect to example embodiments of inventory holders is discussed in greater detail below with respect to .

Mobile drive units may be capable of communicating with management module to receive information identifying selected inventory holders transmit locations of mobile drive units or exchange any other suitable information used by management module or mobile drive units during operation. Mobile drive units may communicate with management module wirelessly using wired connections between mobile drive units and management module and or in any other appropriate manner. As one example some embodiments of mobile drive unit may communicate with management module and or with one another using Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 Infrared Data Association standards or any other appropriate wireless communication protocol. As another example in a tracked inventory system tracks or other guidance element upon which mobile drive units move may be wired to facilitate communication between mobile drive units and other components of inventory system .

Inventory holders store ambient inventory items . Inventory holders may store inventory items at an ambient and or room temperature. Ambient and or room temperature may be the temperature or temperatures at which one or more common areas of inventory system are generally kept by an HVAC system. In some embodiments inventory holders include multiple storage bins with each storage bin capable of holding a different type of inventory item . Inventory holders are capable of being carried rolled or otherwise moved by mobile drive units . In some embodiments inventory holder may provide additional propulsion to supplement that provided by mobile drive unit when moving inventory holder . Additionally in particular embodiments each inventory holder may have a plurality of faces and each bin may be accessible through specific faces of the relevant inventory holder . Mobile drive units may be configured to rotate inventory holders at appropriate times to present particular faces of inventory holders and the associated bins to an operator or other components of inventory system . For ease of reference inventory holders may be referred to herein as ambient inventory holders and or room temperature inventory holders although it should be noted that particular inventory holders may be stored at a variety of temperatures and or climates including temperatures other than ambient and or room temperature.

Ambient inventory items represent any objects suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in an automated inventory system at ambient climate conditions and or room temperatures. Such inventory items may generally be suitable for keeping in a range of temperatures including room temperature without ruining melting or spoiling. Accordingly such inventory items may be kept in a portion of a warehouse or storage facility that does not have climate control and or has an HVAC system that generally keeps the warehouse or facility at acceptable ambient climate conditions and or room temperatures. Room temperatures may for example include temperatures ranging from 65 Fahrenheit F to 75 F. For example inventory items may include canned goods boxed foods mechanical items and other inventory that does not generally require refrigeration. It should be noted however that particular ambient inventory items may be stored at cool or frozen temperatures in addition to room temperatures. During operation mobile drive units may retrieve inventory holders containing one or more ambient inventory items requested in an order to be packed in a container for delivery to a customer. Additionally or alternatively management module may determine to pack an ambient inventory item in containers and or along with cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items that are also on an order based at least in part on determining that ambient inventory item are capable of being stored at cool and or frozen temperatures. Moreover in particular embodiments of inventory system boxes containing completed orders may themselves represent inventory items. For ease of reference inventory items may be referred to herein as ambient inventory items and or room temperature inventory items although it should be noted that particular inventory items may be stored at a variety of temperatures including temperatures other than ambient and or room temperature including ranges of temperatures higher and or lower than the specific examples provided above.

Climate controlled inventory holders store cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items at one or more appropriate controlled climates. Climate controlled inventory holders may represent an embodiment of inventory holder designed and or designated for storing cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items . Climate controlled inventory holders represent any suitable combination of components structure and or machinery to hold cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items at or near one or more target temperatures appropriate for those items. Additionally or alternatively climate controlled inventory holders may be capable of controlling other climate conditions as appropriate for particular inventory items and or . For example climate controlled inventory holders may include humidifiers and other appropriate components to store cool inventory items such as vegetables at a high humidity. In some embodiments climate controlled inventory holders may store only cool inventory items while some embodiments of climate controlled inventory holders may store only frozen inventory items . Moreover other embodiments may store cool inventory items and frozen inventory items . Accordingly inventory holders may be capable of keeping different portions of inventory holders at different target temperatures. For example one or more shelves or bins of inventory holder may be in a frozen compartment or zone while one or more other shelves may be in a refrigerated or cool compartment or zone.

Climate controlled inventory holders may include suitable insulation for facilitating keeping inventory items and or at or near their respective target temperatures while also allowing access to those items. The insulation may at least partially insulate inventory items in inventory holders from ambient temperatures surrounding inventory holders . For example as illustrated climate controlled inventory holders include strip insulation curtains mounted along an outer portion of the inventory holder . As illustrated the top portions of the strip curtains are mounted at or near the top of inventory holder while the bottom portion of the strip curtains move freely. The strip curtains may allow access to inventory items and or between the various strips while impeding air flow between the interior and exterior of inventory holder . It should be noted however that while illustrated as having strip curtains for insulation any suitable form of insulation may be used. For example inventory holders may include insulated side walls and or insulated doors configured to open and close. Doors allowing access to inventory items and or may be mounted on one side of inventory holder and or up to all sides of inventory holder . In some embodiments inventory holder may include no insulation and or may be substantially similar to inventory holder . In such embodiments inventory holder may merely be designated as a climate controlled inventory holder based on being designated for storing inventory items and or in one or more climate controlled zones of inventory system . Accordingly climate controlled inventory holder may simply be designated as a climate controlled inventory holder based on a particular climate controlled zone of a warehouse in which it stores inventory items and or .

Climate controlled inventory holders may be configured to receive refrigeration from an outside source and or may include suitable components to produce refrigeration. For example climate controlled inventory holders may include one or more vents that may be connected to an outlet vent of an HVAC system of the inventory system . A more detailed description of such an embodiment is discussed below with respect to . As another example climate controlled inventory holders may include one or more on board electric refrigeration units that receive power from the inventory system and produce refrigeration internally to inventory holder . More detailed descriptions of such embodiments are discussed below with respect to .

Cool inventory items represent any objects suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in an automated inventory system at temperatures below room temperature. Such objects may represent goods that are appropriate for refrigeration at cool temperatures. Cool temperatures for example may prevent inhibit and or delay melting spoliation and or ruin of those goods. Temperatures may for example include temperatures ranging from just over 32 Fahrenheit F to 55 F. Cool inventory items may represent a class and or type of inventory item that is classified based on a target storage temperature and or other target climate condition such as humidity. For example cool inventory items may represent produce such as fruits and vegetables dairy products or other items that generally benefit from cool temperatures and or high humidities. Mobile drive units may during operation retrieve inventory holders containing one or more cool inventory items requested in an order to be packed for delivery to a customer. For ease of reference cool inventory items are referred to herein as cool inventory items although it should be noted that particular inventory items may be stored at a variety of temperatures including ranges of temperatures higher and or lower than the specific examples provided above.

Frozen inventory items any objects suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in an automated inventory system at freezing temperatures. Such objects may represent goods that should generally be kept frozen to prevent inhibit and or delay melting spoliation and or ruin of those goods. Temperatures may for example include temperatures at or below 32 F. Frozen inventory items may represent a class and or type of inventory item that is classified based on a target storage temperature and or other target climate condition such as humidity. For example frozen inventory items may include frozen goods such as frozen meals frozen vegetables iced products frozen dessert products and other frozen food items. Mobile drive units may during operation retrieve inventory holders containing one or more frozen inventory items requested in an order to be packed for delivery to a customer. For ease of reference frozen inventory items are referred to herein as frozen inventory items although it should be noted that particular inventory items may be stored at a variety of temperatures including ranges of temperatures higher and or lower than the specific examples provided above. Moreover while described as frozen a particular inventory item need not necessarily be frozen. For example particular inventory items may have freezing points below the freezing point of water and or below the temperatures at which frozen inventory items are kept.

For the purposes of this description inventory items may represent any one or more objects of a particular type that are stored in inventory system . For example a given inventory item and or may represent a single stock keeping unit SKU of a unique inventory item. Thus inventory item and or may refer to a particular item and or may refer to a quantity of items having a particular SKU as appropriate. Moreover while example types of inventory items are described above as being ambient cool and frozen these types are provided by way of example only and inventory system may be capable of storing and coordinating orders for any number and or types of inventory items including inventory items that are appropriate for storing at various climate controlled conditions such as high humidity and or low humidity.

Container holders hold containers and in which inventory items and may be grouped. For example container holders may be configured to store orders for various inventory items . As another example container holders may be configured to holder empty containers and or so that appropriate containers ready to receive inventory items and or may be transported to stations for order assembly. Container holders may have any appropriate structure and may be configured to store containers and or in any suitable manner based on the type of containers utilized in inventory system or any other appropriate factors. In some embodiments container holders represent a type of inventory holder configured to carry pallets and that can be moved by mobile drive units . Container holders may include one or more platform or shelves on which containers and or rest. Additionally or alternatively container holders may include a plurality of bins each holding containers and or of a different size or type.

Containers represent any appropriate form of container into or onto which inventory items may be placed for storage shipping or other appropriate purposes. Examples of containers include but are not limited to boxes pallets bins totes cartons and envelopes. In particular embodiments containers are independent of the container holders in which containers are stored and as a result containers may be removed from container holders for processing or transferred to other container holders . As one example containers may represent boxes in which or pallets on which inventory items associated with a particular order may be stored for delivery and the relevant container may then be shipped to a customer associated with that order. As another example containers may represent bins or other containers in which inventory items may be placed for long term storage and then moved to a special location or removed from inventory system .

Containers and respectively represent containers into which cool inventory items and frozen inventory items may be placed for storage shipping or other appropriate purposes. For example containers may be a special type of container designated and or designed to insulate cool inventory items during shipment. Likewise containers may be another type of container designated and or designed to insulate and or keep frozen inventory items frozen during shipment. Containers and or may include and or be formed of insulated materials such as Styrofoam. Containers may for example include compartments and or containers for dry ice or other packing materials appropriate for keeping the interior portion or portions of containers at or near a freezing temperature. Management module may be operable to select a particular type of container and or for shipping inventory items and or based on the class of inventory items on the order.

Stations represent locations designated for the completion of particular tasks involving inventory items and or . Such tasks may include the removal of inventory items and or from inventory holders and or the introduction of inventory items and or into inventory holders and or the counting of inventory items and or in inventory holders and or the decomposition of inventory items and or e.g. from pallet or case sized groups to individual inventory items and or the processing or handling of inventory items and or in any other suitable manner. In some embodiments stations may just represent the physical locations where a particular task involving inventory items can be completed within inventory system . Alternatively or in addition stations may represent both the physical location and also any appropriate equipment for processing or handling inventory items and or such as scanners for monitoring the flow of inventory items and or in and out of inventory system communication interfaces for communicating with management module and or any other suitable components. Stations may be controlled entirely or in part by human operators or may be fully automated. In some embodiments the operator may be automated equipment. Moreover the human or automated operators of stations may be capable of performing certain tasks to inventory items and or such as packing or counting inventory items and or as part of the operation of inventory system . Although station as used in the following description refers to locations at which any appropriate processing operation supported by inventory system may be completed particular embodiments of inventory system may include specialized stations suitable for performing only a single processing task supported by inventory system as will be discussed in greater detail with respect to . Moreover a particular embodiment of inventory system may include stations that are in general capable of handling multiple types of operations but at any given time configured to handle only one particular type of operations.

In general orders for ambient inventory items cool inventory items and frozen inventory items are filled using station . Cool inventory items and frozen inventory items may be kept at or near their respective target temperatures by climate controlled inventory holders . Management module may instruct mobile drive units to transport particular inventory holders storing ambient inventory items requested by particular orders to stations for fulfillment. Management module may instruct other mobile drive units to transport particular climate controlled inventory holders storing cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items requested by particular orders to the same or different stations for fulfillment. Container holders may carry empty containers to stations so that requested inventory items can be placed into appropriate containers for shipment. For example ambient inventory items may be placed into containers cool inventory items may be placed into containers and frozen inventory items may be placed into containers . After container holders receive appropriate inventory items into its various containers container holders may be transported to a shipping station for shipment to another facility or end user. For example using system an online grocer may facilitate the delivery of fresh goods and produce to a customer.

Intake vent represents a cooling duct and or ventilation opening operable to receive refrigerated air from outlet vent of an external HVAC system not illustrated . In some embodiments intake vent may be connectable to outlet vent . Intake vent may form an intake to an internal ducting system of inventory holder that allows refrigerated air to be received from intake vent and distributed to the various shelves compartments and or bins of inventory holder . Alternatively or in addition inventory shelves within inventory holder may be made of a grating wire mesh or other porous material that allows air to flow through shelves from intake vent . When in proximity to outlet vent intake vent may receive refrigerated air that may be at a cool and or at a frozen temperature as appropriate for inventory items and or . It should also be understood that while being illustrated as a single intake vent intake vent may represent more than one intake vent that are each able to receive different temperature supply air. For example intake vent may be configured as two vents one to receive cool air corresponding to one portion of inventory holder storing cool inventory items and another to receive freezing temperature air corresponding to another portion of inventory holder storing frozen inventory items .

Temperature sensor may be any appropriate device or sensor capable of measuring the internal temperature of inventory holder . Temperature sensor may include multiple sensors that each measure the temperature of various bins shelves and compartments of inventory holder . Temperature sensor may be capable of communicating temperature information to management module . For example temperature sensor may include one or more wireless interfaces to wirelessly transmit information to management module . Temperature sensor may additionally or alternatively transmit other information to management module such as information identifying a particular temperature sensor and or inventory holder .

Outlet vent may represent any appropriate outlet vent of an HVAC duct configured provide refrigerated air at one or more temperatures appropriate for cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items stored by inventory holder . The HVAC system may for example be a centralized heating and cooling system associated with inventory system . The HVAC system may have multiple outlet vents at various locations in inventory system at which inventory holder may be connected to receive refrigerated air. The locations may be situated such that an outlet vent may be available at various storage and or waiting locations within inventory system such as at inventory stations drift locations and or various storage areas within inventory system .

Mobile drive unit is operable to move beneath inventory holder in order to dock lift or otherwise couple to inventory holder . Accordingly outlet vent may include one or more collapsible portions which may allow inventory holder to be lifted without damaging outlet vent . Intake vent and or outlet vent may additionally or alternatively include one or more catches latches or sliding mechanisms to facilitate connecting and disconnecting intake vent and outlet vent . Additionally or alternatively intake vent may include one or more louvers configured to at least partially close an opening to the intake vent when the intake vent is disconnected from the outlet vent . In some embodiments outlet vent may include a similar louver configured to at least partially close when intake vent is disconnected. Such louvers may facilitate the prevention of refrigerated air from escaping from intake vent and or outlet vent while disconnected from each other. Mobile drive unit may include one or more appropriate sensors to align inventory holder to a particular portion of inventory system such as a reference point with a known spatial relationship to outlet vent . Once appropriately aligned mobile drive unit may move inventory holder such that the catches latches and or sliding mechanism engage and thereby cause inlet vent to connect to outlet vent . In addition or in the alternative mobile drive unit align intake vent beneath outlet vent without making a physical connection between outlet vent and intake vent .

In operation each outlet vent in inventory system may be able to supply climate controlled air at selected temperatures to a given inventory holder while connected to a particular inventory holder . Inventory holder may receive refrigerated air from vents and while for example stored in a storage area of inventory system . Accordingly cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items may be kept at or near target temperatures while inventory holder is connected to outlet vent . Temperatures of the air at outlet vents may be independently controllable by management module . Additionally or alternatively flow temperature humidity and other characteristics of the supply of air from outlet vent may be independently controllable by management module . Management module may track particular inventory holders connected to particular outlet vents and or may select particular characteristics of the supply of air appropriate for the particular inventory holder based on the inventory and or inventory types stored by that inventory holder . Management module may additionally or alternatively be capable of operating the HVAC system to keep various portions of inventory holder at or near target temperatures based on receiving temperature information from temperature sensor .

Management module may select inventory holder for transportation to station based on determining that one or more inventory items and or stored by that inventory holder are requested by one or more orders. In response to determining to fulfill an order with one or more inventory items and or stored by inventory holder management module may instruct mobile drive unit to move to inventory holder lift inventory holder and transport inventory holder to a particular station . Mobile drive unit moving inventory holder may cause intake vent of inventory holder to disconnect from outlet vent . For example a sliding mechanism latch or catch may disengage. While disconnected from refrigeration inventory items and or may not receive refrigeration. Accordingly because inventory holder may be stored in a room temperature zone of inventory system the internal temperature of inventory holder including inventory items and or may eventually rise to room temperature if not returned to an outlet vent within an acceptable time. Management module may be capable of calculating an estimated time that is acceptable for inventory holder to be disconnected from refrigeration based on the amount of time estimated for the temperature of inventory items and or to rise beyond a predetermined threshold. In addition or in the alternative management module may track the temperatures of inventory items and or based on temperature information received from temperature sensor .

Management module may use various techniques to ensure that inventory holder is disconnected from refrigeration for acceptable time durations and or reconnected to refrigeration before that time expires. For example management module may prioritize orders for inventory items and or prioritize processing of inventory items and or may schedule transportation of inventory holder at times when traffic is acceptable and or may determine to fill an order for an ambient inventory item at a later time than otherwise would occur. In some embodiments management module may utilize drifting techniques to cause inventory holders to wait while inventory holders are transported to station . These and other techniques are discussed in more detail below.

After requested inventory items and or are received at station and used to fill various orders management module may select a storage location for inventory holder . Selection may based on the availability of one or more outlet vents . Mobile drive unit may then be instructed by management module to transport inventory holder to a selected storage location. Mobile drive unit receives the instructions and may then transport inventory holder to the selected storage location where inventory holder may be aligned with and or reconnected to outlet vent .

Mechanical arm includes any appropriate components to movably connect to a wiring system . Mechanical arm is also electrically coupled to refrigeration unit via a power cord or other electrical cabling. Mechanical arm may receive electrical power from wiring system and deliver power to refrigeration unit . In some embodiments mechanical arm may include a swiveling mechanism to allow mechanical arm to rotate with respect to inventory holder . Thus when inventory holder is rotated by mobile drive unit a portion of mechanical arm in contact with wiring system may remain in the same orientation with respect to wiring system . Mechanical arm may include wiring cabling and or electrical contacts operable to electrically couple wiring system to a power input of refrigeration unit . Mechanical arm may include one or more flexible portions that are configured to flex appropriately when inventory holder is lifted by mobile drive unit .

Wiring system represents appropriate cabling mesh or and or other electrically conductive materials to transmit electrical power to one or more electrical contacts of mechanical arm from a source of electricity. Mobile drive unit may be operable to couple dock lift or otherwise connect with inventory holder in order to move inventory holder to various locations within in inventory system . Wiring system may be configured as an overhead source of power along various paths within inventory system such that mobile drive unit may move freely along paths created by wiring system within inventory system . While inventory holder is being transported by mobile drive unit mechanical arm may be configured to remain in contact with wiring system such that inventory holder receives a continuous and or near continuous supply of electrical power to refrigeration unit . Accordingly inventory holder may keep inventory items and or at or near their target respective target temperatures while being moved by mobile drive unit . Moreover while illustrated as being overhead to inventory holder wiring system may at any appropriate location in inventory system such as on the floor or along tracks or cabling systems.

Refrigeration unit represents any combination of appropriate components operable to produce and or generate appropriate refrigeration for inventory holder . Refrigeration unit may include appropriate compressors radiators and fans to form an electric refrigerator operable to cool the environment within inventory holder . Refrigeration unit may connect to an internal ducting system that supplies refrigeration to cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items stored on various shelves compartments and or bins of inventory holder . Refrigeration unit may be capable of operating in one or more refrigeration modes operable to deliver various target temperatures to inventory items and or . Alternatively or in addition refrigeration unit may represent multiple refrigeration units operable to produce and or generate a supply of air at various temperatures including temperatures appropriate for cool inventory items and or temperatures appropriate for frozen inventory items .

During operation inventory holder applies refrigeration to inventory items and or . Refrigeration unit may operate to keep those items at or near target temperatures. Management module may instruct mobile drive unit to move inventory holder to various locations within inventory system such as stations . While being moved by mobile drive units inventory holder may remain in contact with wiring system and thus may continue to provide electrical power to refrigeration unit . Accordingly inventory holder may be capable of refrigerating inventory items and or while being transported by mobile drive unit .

Management module may select inventory holder for transportation to station based on determining that one or more cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items stored by that inventory holder are requested by one or more orders. In response to determining to fulfill an order with one or more inventory items and or stored by inventory holder management module may instruct mobile drive unit to move to inventory holder lift inventory holder and transport inventory holder to a particular station . Management module may calculate a path to a particular destination based on potential paths formed by wiring system . Mobile drive unit may then be instructed by management module to travel along those paths while transporting inventory holder . Accordingly mechanical arm may remain electrically coupled to wiring system while moving.

Electrical contacts may be situated in any appropriate portion of inventory holder and may be configured to interface with electrical outlet . Electrical contacts and are configured to connect to and or interface with electrical contacts and of electrical outlet . Electrical contacts may be elongated conductive strips operable to receive electric power when in contact with contacts and of electric outlet . As illustrated electrical contacts are located at or near the base of inventory holder . Inventory holder may include four vertical support members and or legs configured to allow mobile drive unit to pass into openings between the members to travel underneath inventory holder . As shown in more detail in electrical contacts and are mounted on the bottom surface of one of the legs. Moreover while illustrated as elongated conductive strips electrical contacts may represent any appropriate electrical interface including a 2 3 or 4 pronged electrical plug or receptacle.

As shown in more detail in electrical outlet includes electrical contacts and that may be configured to mate with electrical contacts and when the leg of inventory holder is lowered onto electrical outlet by mobile drive unit . Inventory system may be configured with multiple electrical outlets at various locations in inventory system at which inventory holder may be connected to receive electrical power for refrigeration unit . The locations may be placed so that an electrical outlet may be available at various storage and or waiting locations within inventory system such as at inventory stations drift locations and or various storage areas within inventory system . While illustrated as elongated conductive strips electrical contacts and may represent any appropriate electrical interface including a 2 3 or 4 pronged electrical plug or receptacle.

Power conduit represents a wire cable or electrical conduit configured to electrically couple a power input to refrigeration unit to one or more electrical contacts . As illustrated power conduit runs along or inside one or more of the legs of inventory holder . It should be understood however that while a particular embodiment is illustrated electrical contacts may be configured any suitable manner to interface with electrical outlet . For example electrical contacts may in some embodiments be disposed on a side of inventory holder and electrical outlet may be disposed in a vertical position on a wall or vertical post or stand.

Mobile drive unit may be capable of aligning inventory holder to the electrical outlet when lowering inventory holder at particular locations in inventory system . Accordingly mobile drive unit may include one or more appropriate sensors to align inventory holder to a particular portion of inventory system such as a reference point with a known spatial relationship to electrical outlet . Once appropriately aligned mobile drive unit may move inventory holder such that the electrical contacts and interface and or mate with electrical contacts and . Thus refrigeration unit of inventory holder may receive electrical power when inventory holder is stored in a location that has an electrical outlet .

Management module may select inventory holder for transportation to station based on determining that one or more inventory items and or stored by that inventory holder are requested by one or more orders. In response to determining to fulfill an order with one or more inventory items and or stored by inventory holder management module may instruct mobile drive unit to move to inventory holder lift inventory holder and transport inventory holder to a particular station . Mobile drive unit moving inventory holder may cause electrical contacts to disconnect from electrical outlet . While disconnected from refrigeration inventory items and or may not receive refrigeration. Accordingly because inventory holder may be stored in a room temperature zone of inventory system the internal temperature of inventory holder including inventory items and or may eventually rise to room temperature if not reconnected to a power source within an acceptable time. Accordingly management module may use various techniques to ensure that inventory holder is disconnected from a power source for acceptable time durations such as those discussed above with respect to inventory holder of and elsewhere in the disclosure. For example management module may select a location for storing inventory holder based in part on determining that an electrical outlet is available. As another example management module may plan schedule and or prioritize fulfillment of orders and or processing of inventory items and or based on the detected temperature of inventory items and or and or on a time away from a source of electrical power using techniques that are discussed in greater detail elsewhere in the disclosure.

In some embodiments inventory holder may include one or more batteries that provide a secondary and or backup power source while inventory holder is disconnected from electrical outlet . Batteries may be automatically charged while connected to electrical outlet . Management module may be configured to detect the charge on the one or more batteries and may plan accordingly. For example management module may calculate an amount of estimated battery charge remaining and or a corresponding battery time remaining. Management module may plan schedule and or prioritize fulfillment of orders and or processing of inventory items and or based on remaining battery life and or duration using techniques that are discussed in greater detail elsewhere in the disclosure.

Receiving stations induction stations inventory stations and shipping stations represent particular stations that include any appropriate components for processing or handling inventory items and or such as scanners for monitoring the flow of inventory items and or in and out of inventory system communication interfaces for communicating with management module and or any other suitable components. Receiving stations induction stations inventory stations and shipping stations represent specialized stations so suitable for performing particular types of processing tasks supported by inventory system as explained in more detail below.

Receiving stations represent stations at which tasks associated with receiving replenishment and or replacement inventory items and or take place. For example receiving stations may include a loading dock and appropriate processing equipment to intake new inventory items and or into inventory system . At receiving stations new inventory may be received broken down handled input into inventory system and or any other appropriate tasks associated with receiving inventory items and or into inventory system .

Induction stations represent stations at which tasks associated with assembling and or building container holders and or assembling containers and or for inventory items take place. For example induction stations may include appropriate materials and equipment to assemble containers and or and or group containers into container holders . Interfaces at induction stations may provide any appropriate components for assembling containers and or such as packing lists packing materials shipping labels and materials related to other appropriate shipping and packaging tasks. Induction stations may in some embodiments include appropriate devices and or interfaces to instruct an operator of the induction station how to assemble and or group containers and or into container holders . For example a given order may include requests for several inventory items and or . An operator may be provided instructions with the types of containers and to use and into which container holder to place those containers. Particular containers and or may be associated with particular orders at induction stations . Thus when container and or respectively receive an inventory item and or the order may be referred to as having received the inventory item and or .

Inventory stations represent stations at which tasks related to fulfilling orders take place. At inventory stations inventory items and or may be picked and or removed from inventory holders and or and or placed into containers and or of container holders . Inventory stations may include appropriate equipment to instruct an operator to remove a particular ambient inventory item from inventory holder or cool inventory item and or frozen inventory item from inventory holder and place the inventory items into an appropriate container in container holder . In some embodiments inventory stations may interface with conveyance equipment capable of transporting containers to shipping stations for shipment. Thus when a particular order is complete its associated container may be removed from container holder and placed onto the conveyance equipment for delivery to shipping station . In addition or in the alternative mobile drive unit may move container holder away from inventory station and transport order holder to shipping station .

In some embodiments inventory system may include multiple inventory stations . Inventory stations may be designated for fulfilling orders for particular types of inventory items. For example one inventory station may be designated for fulfilling orders for ambient inventory items . Another inventory station may be designated for fulfilling orders for cool inventory items and another inventory station may be designated for fulfilling orders for frozen inventory items . In some embodiments a particular inventory station may be designated for fulfilling any combination of the above mentioned inventory items including for example an inventory station that fulfills orders for ambient inventory items cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items .

Shipping stations represent locations at which orders may be shipped to a destination such as an end user and or specified shipping destination for the orders. For example shipping stations may include loading docks and appropriate processing equipment to ship containers from inventory system . In some embodiments shipping stations and receiving stations may be at similar or same locations.

Workspace of inventory system represents an area associated with inventory system in which mobile drive units can move inventory holders inventory holders and container holders can be stored and or orders can be assembled. For example workspace may represent all or part of the floor of a distribution center in which inventory system operates. Moreover although shows for the purposes of illustration an embodiment of inventory system in which workspace includes a fixed predetermined and finite physical space particular embodiments of inventory system may include mobile drive units inventory holders and inventory holders that are configured to operate within a workspace that is of variable dimensions and or arbitrary geometry. Workspace may be controlled by a central HVAC system that sets the ambient temperature to an appropriate room temperature. In some embodiments however workspace may represent a warehouse or other facility that does not have a centralized HVAC system and or is subject to outside temperatures. Thus inventory holders and or inventory holders may generally be stored at ambient temperatures and or room temperatures within workspace .

Workspace may include appropriate infrastructure to support climate controlled inventory holders such as the infrastructure discussed above with respect to inventory holders and or . For example workspace may include an HVAC system configured with outlet vents at various embodiments to provide refrigerated air to inventory holders . Outlet vents may be configured at for example the locations at which inventory holders and or inventory holders are stored in storage areas . Outlet vents also may be provided at various other locations such as waiting or drift locations proximate to the various stations. As another example workspace may include wiring system to provide electrical power to refrigeration units in inventory holders . Wiring system may provide electrical power along paths between receiving stations storage areas induction stations inventory stations and or shipping stations . As another example electrical outlets may be configured at various locations such as the locations at which inventory holders and or inventory holders are stored in storage areas . Electrical outlets also may be provided at various other locations such as waiting or drift locations proximate to the various stations.

Storage areas may represent various areas designated for storing inventory holders and or inventory holders within workspace . For example storage area may represent an area designated solely for storing inventory holders which as noted above store ambient inventory items . Storage area may represent an area designated for storing solely climate controlled inventory holders . Storage area may thus include appropriate infrastructure to support those inventory holders as explained above. Storage area may represent an area designated for a mixture of inventory holders and climate controlled inventory holders . Storage area may also include appropriate infrastructure to support climate controlled inventory holders . Management module may in some embodiments be capable of selecting a storage location for a particular inventory holder that includes infrastructure to support inventory holders even if that inventory holder may not utilize the infrastructure. Management module however may give priority to such storage locations to inventory holders . For example management module may select a storage location for inventory holder that does not include infrastructure for inventory holders over storage locations that do include such infrastructure. Management module may select a storage location with such infrastructure for inventory holder to be stored if for example other storage locations are not available. It should also may be noted that in particular embodiments of inventory system workspace may include all some or none of the above combinations of storage areas .

In operation orders for inventory items and are filled using various mobile drive units to transport inventory holders and to inventory stations . After an order is received management module may determine the type and or temperature class of inventory items being requested. For example management module may determine that an order includes a request for an ambient inventory item a cool inventory item and a frozen inventory item . Management module may attempt to locate the ambient inventory item within ambient inventory holders and the cool inventory item and frozen inventory item within inventory holders . Based on determining that a particular ambient inventory holder stores the requested ambient inventory item management module may select inventory holder to be transported to inventory station . Likewise based on determining that a particular climate controlled inventory holder stores a particular cool inventory item or frozen inventory item management module may select that inventory holder to be transported to inventory station . In the case where more than one inventory holder and or inventory holder store the requested inventory item management module may select an inventory holder and or based on the more efficient use of system resources. For example management module may select the inventory holder and or based on distance from inventory station and or based on determining that the particular inventory holder and or stores inventory items requested by multiple orders. As another example for climate controlled inventory holders management module may select the inventory holder that is calculated to be away from a source of electric power and or refrigeration for a lower amount of time.

Management module may select mobile drive unit to transport each selected inventory holder and or to inventory station . That selection may also be based on various factors including the proximity of mobile drive unit to a particular selected inventory holder and or . The selection may also be based on an assignment state and or capability state of particular mobile drive units. For example management module may select a mobile drive unit that is not currently assigned a task over a mobile drive unit that is currently completing an assigned task. As another example management module may select a mobile drive unit that has a higher level of fuel and or is currently capable of completing the task without needing refueling or other maintenance. Management module may then transmit appropriate instructions and or task assignments to the selected mobile drive units .

Management module may select from available inventory stations a particular inventory station to fulfill that order. The selection may be based on various factors such as determining that a particular inventory station is designated for fulfilling the type of inventory on that order. For example management module may select an inventory station that is designated for fulfilling orders for ambient inventory items to fulfill an order for an ambient inventory item . As another example management module may select an inventory station that is designated for fulfilling orders for cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items to fulfill an order for an cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items . Management module may in some embodiments select an inventory station capable of filling orders for ambient inventory items cool inventory items and frozen inventory items or any combination thereof. In some embodiments inventory stations designated for cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items may be capable of also processing ambient inventory items . For example management module may select such a station to process orders that include both inventory items or and inventory items . In addition or in the alternative the selection may be based on workload and or waiting times of various inventory stations . For example for climate controlled inventory holders and or management module may select an inventory station with a lower wait time than another inventory station in order to reduce the time required to return those inventory holders and or to a refrigeration and or power source for onboard refrigeration unit .

Mobile drive units may then move to the selected inventory holder and according to instructions received from the management module . The selected inventory holder or may for example be located in one of storage areas . Once at the location of a particular inventory holder or mobile drive unit may dock lift couple or otherwise connect to inventory holder or . Mobile drive unit may then transport the respective inventory holders or to the selected inventory stations .

Management module may also select appropriate containers and to be included in container holder to hold orders for inventory items. Management module may facilitate placement of appropriate containers on container holder at induction station . For example management module may instruct operators at induction stations which containers and what quantities of those containers to place on a particular container holder . Management module may select a mobile drive unit to transport container holder to inventory station from induction station . Management module may then issue appropriate instructions and or task assignments to the selected mobile drive units . After mobile drive units receive appropriate instructions and or task assignments Container holders containing appropriate containers and or may be transported by mobile drive units to inventory station .

At inventory stations the requested inventory items and may be removed from their respective inventory holders and and placed into an appropriate container or . For example a worker or operator of inventory station may remove an ambient inventory item from inventory holder and place the item into container . As another example a worker or operator of inventory station may remove an cool inventory item from inventory holder and place the item into container . As another example a worker or operator of inventory station may remove an frozen inventory item from inventory holder and place the item into container . For stations capable of processing inventory items and inventory items and a container or may be selected by management module that is appropriate for shipping inventory items or . Inventory items that are capable of being stored at a broad range of temperatures may be placed into containers and or along with the cool or frozen inventory items . Management module may choose to group inventory items along with cool and or frozen inventory items into containers in order to reduce the number of containers utilized for orders for various types of items.

As inventory used by inventory system to fill various orders additional replacement and or replenishment inventory may be received at various times at receiving stations including additional ambient inventory items cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items . Management module may select appropriate inventory holders and or to receive inventory items and or such as inventory holders and or that are low and or depleted of those items and or that are designated to receive those types of items. Management module may accordingly issue instructions to mobile drive units to transport inventory holders and or that are low and or depleted of their inventory items to receiving stations to receive replenishment inventory. Management module may use similar prioritization techniques when replenishing inventory at receiving stations as is discussed herein with respect to filling orders at inventory stations .

Management module may take into account various factors related to the temperature characteristics of particular inventory items and or inventory holders when coordinating and managing various task assignments. These factors may affect management module s decision making process when selecting inventory holders and or instructing mobile drive units to move inventory holders to inventory stations . For example in embodiments where inventory holders and are disconnected from refrigeration in transport management module may prioritize transportation of inventory items and or stored in those inventory holders over orders for ambient inventory items . In some embodiments management module may prioritize transportation of inventory items and or stored in those inventory holders over orders for ambient inventory items based on determining that temperature information received from temperature sensor has reached a predetermined threshold. For example management module may determine that the internal temperature of a particular inventory holder or has gotten too warm and that inventory holder should returned to refrigeration in an expedited manner. Thus management module may determine to fulfill orders for cool inventory items and or before fulfilling orders for inventory items based on relative priorities of those items. Management module may be capable of adjusting the priority of cool inventory items and or based on the amount of time those inventory items and or have been disconnected from refrigeration for example a power source and or a source of refrigerated air . For example once the amount of time has passed some predetermined threshold management module may increase the priority of those items above other inventory items or . Alternatively or additionally management module may based on received temperature information for a particular inventory holder also modify priority of particular inventory items and or . For example management module may increase the priority of inventory items that are stored in climate controlled inventory holders or disconnected from refrigeration and or where the internal temperature of those holders has passed some predetermined threshold. Based on the increased priority management module may issue instructions to fulfill the orders for those inventory items and or from that inventory holder before fulfilling orders for other inventory items or . In some embodiments management module may be capable of providing similar prioritization for replenishing inventory holders at receiving stations .

Management module may also be capable of removing particular inventory holders and or from a queue or waiting area associated with particular inventory stations based on determining to fill an order for a higher priority item. Management module may also be capable of reordering the queue based on prioritization. In some embodiments lower priority inventory holders that destined for a particular inventory station and or are in a queue may be instructed to move to a drift location or different place in the queue before proceeding and or returning to inventory station . More specific details on prioritizing cool inventory items or frozen inventory items and for utilizing drift locations to enforce order priorities are discussed below with respect to .

Temperature zone may be a temperature zone kept at an ambient or room temperature. For example temperature zone may represent a commonly accessible area of workspace which is described above with respect to . Temperature zone may be a temperature zone kept at below room temperature. For example temperature zone may represent a walk in refrigerator or cooler that holds the environment within the zone at a temperature appropriate for storing cool inventory items . Temperature zone may be a temperature zone kept at a frozen temperature. For example temperature zone may represent a walk in refrigerator or freezer that holds the environment within the zone at a temperature appropriate for storing frozen inventory items . One or more various barriers or walls may separate the various zones in order to maintain the respective temperatures within the interior of those zones and or prevent or inhibit air flow from the respective zones.

Entrances and represent any appropriate openings doors devices and other appropriate components to facilitate entering and exiting respectively from temperature zones and . In some embodiments entrances and may include one or more actuating doors gates or other movable barrier operable to open and close entrance . The doors may include an appropriate device that may be actuated by mobile drive units thus allowing mobile drive units to automatically pass in and out of zones and at appropriate times. For example entrance may include a pressure sensor photo detector lever button or other suitable device that may respond to the presence of mobile drive unit . In some embodiments entrance may include appropriate electronics receivers and or transceivers to receive an electronic signal transmitted by mobile drive units . The electronic signal may instruct entrance to open its one or more doors or gates. In response to receiving an appropriate electronic signal entrance may open so that mobile drive unit may enter or exit. While discussed as having actuating doors the entrances and may be any appropriate means of allowing access to zones and while generally impeding air flow. For example entrances and may additionally or alternatively include insulated strip curtains that hang from the top frame of the opening. Mobile drive units may enter and exit by moving through the strip curtains. As another example in some embodiments entrance may include a spring actuated door that mobile drive unit may simply push open using force generated by its motorized wheels.

As illustrated inventory holders are disposed within temperature zone and inventory holders are disposed within temperature zone . Because inventory holders and are located within zones that are themselves climate controlled the inventory holders may not necessarily include any means of individually cooling each inventory holder. In some embodiments inventory holders may include insulation material such as insulated strip curtains around the outer portion of the inventory holder . Accordingly when inventory holders are removed from the respective temperature zones or inventory holders may be at least partially insulated from the ambient temperatures within temperature zone . In some embodiments container holders such as container holders storing containers or may be stored as appropriate in one or more of temperature zones or . For example containers or that include chill packs dry ice or other chilled materials may be stored in the appropriate climate controlled zone or .

In operation as explained above management module receives various orders for inventory items and and issues instructions to mobile drive units to retrieve those inventory holders and transport them to inventory stations . Management module prioritizes cool inventory items and frozen inventory items . For example management module may determine a temperature class of the inventory items on a particular order. In some embodiments temperature class may be determined based on a location at which the inventory items are stored and or may be predetermined based on information associated with a SKU or other identifier of inventory items. Based on the temperature class management module may assign priorities to various orders inventory holders inventory items and or instructions issued to the various mobile drive units . For example a task to transport an inventory holder within temperature zone may be assigned one priority while another task to transport inventory holder from zones or may be assigned another priority. In some embodiments instructions and or task assignments to transport inventory holders and may each be assigned a respective priority. For example instructions to transport inventory holders storing requested frozen inventory items may have higher priority than instructions to transport inventory holders storing requested cool inventory items . Both instructions may be assigned higher priorities than instructions to transport inventory holders storing ambient inventory items . In some embodiments management module may assign set modify and or adjust the priority of inventory holders based on the length of time inventory holder has been away from its respective zone or . Inventory holder may also include a temperature sensor and management module may assign set modify and or adjust priorities based on temperature information received from the temperature sensor of inventory holder .

Based on the assigned priorities management module may determine a sequence in which inventory holders and should be transported to inventory station . For example management module may determine to fill orders for higher priority inventory items first followed sequentially by lower priority inventory items. In some embodiments management module may be capable of scheduling the transportation of inventory holders and in order to minimize or reduce an amount of time that each inventory holder is away from its respective zone or . For example after receiving an order for cool inventory items or frozen inventory items management module may determine whether locations are available at inventory station to fill the order. If there are no available locations management module may determine that an earlier received order for an ambient inventory item is in the process of being fulfilled at inventory station by inventory holder . Management module may estimate the time remaining before the order is filled and or inventory holder leaves inventory station . In response to determining that the time required to fulfill that order would be greater than an acceptable predetermined threshold management module may determine to schedule transportation of inventory holder to inventory station at a later time at which fulfillment time would be within the threshold. The predetermined threshold may be calculated to match an acceptable time period for which inventory holder or may be away from their respective temperature zones without the inventory items stored by those holders reaching temperatures that would cause melting spoliation or ruin. For example management module may calculate that that a maximum acceptable time period away from a cooler or freezer is two to five minutes. In some embodiments management module may schedule transportation for after the estimated time remaining reaches the acceptable predetermined threshold. Then management module may instruct mobile drive unit to transport inventory holder to inventory station .

Management module may use various techniques to facilitate enforcement of priorities. For example inventory station may have a number of locations available at which inventory holders and or may be moved to so that inventory items or may be received. In some embodiments if there are not available locations at inventory station management module may determine to remove another inventory holder or from one of the occupied locations and replace that inventory holder with a higher priority inventory holder such as one of inventory holders or . In order to facilitate this capability management module may be capable of using a technique called drifting. Drifting facilitates the movement of ambient inventory holders and temperature controlled inventory holders to inventory station in a timely and efficient manner. Management module may for example instruct an inventory holder and or to be removed from a location at inventory station to move to a drift location in the vicinity of inventory station . That inventory holder may remain there until a trigger event occurs such as a location becoming available at inventory station . As another example management module may determine to issue modified instructions to a mobile drive unit that are en route to inventory station to instead move to a drift location before proceeding to inventory station . Additionally or alternatively management module may based for example on overall system activity levels determine to send inventory holders with lower priority inventory items orders and or line item requests to drift locations while higher priority inventory items orders and or line item requests for cool inventory items and frozen inventory items are filled. More details of these techniques will be discussed below with respect to .

In some embodiments inventory station may have a queue associated with it in which inventory holders and or wait in the order in which they are scheduled to arrive at inventory station . Management module may based on priorities change the order of the queue and or remove particular inventory holders and or from the queue to replace those holders with higher priority inventory holders . For example management module may determine for inventory holder storing a cool inventory item to take the place in the queue of inventory holder storing an ambient inventory item based on determining that the priority of inventory holder is higher than inventory holder . Additionally or alternatively the determination may be based on the type of inventory item in each inventory holder and or the refrigeration capabilities temperature or other temperature characteristics of the inventory holder. Accordingly management module may instruct mobile drive unit carrying inventory holder to move from its queue location and for another mobile drive unit carrying inventory holder to take its place. Management module may instruct mobile drive unit to move inventory holder to another location such as a lower queue location and or a drift location. Management module may make similar determinations and provide similar instructions based on determining that inventory holder storing frozen inventory items has a higher priority than an inventory holder storing ambient inventory items and or an inventory holder storing cool inventory items . If the queue includes multiple inventory holders and or management module may select the inventory holder and or that has the lowest priority of the holders in the queue for replacement or reordering. Thus the management module may coordinate the order in which inventory holders are arranged in the queue so that the queue may generally be in order from higher priority at the front of the queue to lower priority at the back of the queue.

Inventory system may facilitate fulfillment of orders at inventory station utilizing a technique herein referred to as drifting. Drifting may allow components of inventory system during the completion of a particular task involving that element to move towards a particular destination or otherwise be positioned so as to reduce a travel time to the relevant destination. In the context of facilitating the fulfillment of orders at inventory station drifting may be used to gather inventory items or to the vicinity of inventory station such that they are nearby when locations and or queue spaces at inventory station become available. The inventory items or that are drifting may be expected to be needed to fill or more orders in the near future. Thus the time required to swap out and or replace inventory items stationed at inventory pier may be reduced over less sophisticated techniques.

 Drift locations represent locations in the vicinity of inventory station in the warehouse designated for a mobile drive unit carrying an inventory holder or to drift until the appropriate time. Drift locations may be used as locations where lower priority inventory holders and or inventory items may wait until resources at inventory station become available. Drift locations may for example be utilized to keep inventory holder in the vicinity of inventory station that while inventory holders may be transported to inventory station . These techniques may be particularly beneficial for inventory holders that are not refrigerated while being transported to inventory station such as inventory holders and inventory holders stored in zones and . Some embodiments of system may utilize drifting to anticipate tasks to be completed and to position the relevant components so as to reduce the time required to complete the anticipated tasks. Drifting may facilitate completion of orders based on priorities while reducing congestion caused by using less sophisticated techniques. Utilization of drift locations may allow for fulfillment of a particular order that involves the completion of several tasks by inventory system while reducing the time that inventory system spends completing such tasks and improving system throughput. Drifting may additionally or alternatively allow for more efficient use of the finite physical area available within inventory system . An example embodiment of inventory system including drift locations is herein described.

Management module may determine to send a particular inventory holder and or inventory holder to a particular drift location in response to detecting a first trigger event or events . In particular embodiments the relevant element may remain in the particular drift location or a particular group of drift locations until a second trigger event or events occurs. After the second trigger event occurs the element may then move toward the relevant system resource for completion of the task. In particular embodiments spaces may be statically designated as drift locations while in alternative embodiments spaces may be dynamically designated as drift locations depending on the resource needs of inventory system the availability of locations at inventory stations and or other appropriate considerations. As described further below drift locations may be utilized in various ways to improve throughput or otherwise increase system efficiency of certain embodiments of inventory system including but not limited to facilitating fulfillment of orders at inventory station .

Management module may determine to move an inventory holder away from inventory station in response to a first trigger event such as determining that completion and or processing of a particular order or inventory item has a higher priority than the inventory holder . For example as illustrated inventory holder storing frozen inventory items indicated by an F is determined to have higher priority than an inventory holder storing ambient inventory items indicated by an A . Accordingly inventory holder is first removed from one of the locations at inventory station and moved to drift location . Inventory holder remains in drift location until a second trigger event occurs which may be detecting that a location at inventory station is available. For instance inventory holder may leave inventory station after requested frozen inventory items are received and vacate a location at inventory station . In some embodiments management module may modify the priority of inventory holder over time based on time that inventory holder waits and or the time pending for the order corresponding to the inventory items stored in inventory holder . Thus inventory holder may be assigned and or obtain priority over another inventory holder that holds ambient inventory items corresponding to a relatively more recent order. In some embodiments when the time waiting for the order to complete corresponding to inventory holder passes some predetermined threshold management module may determine to schedule transportation of another inventory holder and or at a later time rather than have inventory holder continue to wait.

As another example inventory holder storing cool inventory items indicated by a C have higher priority than inventory holder storing ambient inventory items indicated by an A . Thus inventory holder may be replaced at inventory station by inventory holder in a similar manner as was discussed above with respect to inventory holder

As another example inventory holder storing frozen inventory items indicated by an F may have higher priority than another inventory holder storing other cool inventory items . Thus inventory holder may be replaced at inventory station by inventory holder in a similar manner as was discussed above with respect to inventory holder

It should be noted that while illustrated examples in depict replacing various inventory holders that are located at inventory station management module may determine to drift various inventory holders and or before being sent to inventory station and or while in transit to inventory station . Management module may utilize similar techniques to replace and or reorder inventory holders and in a queue to inventory station .

At step management module may assign initial priorities to completion of the orders and or completion of the various lines on the orders. Each line of an order may represent for example a quantity of a unique inventory item or requested by the order. Management module may assign initial priorities for example based on determining the temperature classes of the inventory items and or the refrigeration capabilities of the inventory holders storing the items. For example an inventory holder storing ambient inventory items may be assigned a first priority an inventory holder storing cool inventory items may be assigned a second priority and another inventory holder storing frozen inventory items may be assigned a third priority. The third priority may be higher than the second priority and the second priority may be higher than the first priority. The priorities may be set based on temperature characteristics of the various inventory items in the respective inventory holders. For example inventory holders storing frozen inventory items may be assigned a higher priority than inventory holders storing cool inventory items which may be assigned a higher priority than inventory holders storing ambient inventory items . In some embodiments management module may determine a sequence in which inventory holders and are to be transported to inventory stations . The determination may be based on the assigned priorities of the various inventory holders and or . For example management module may based on assigned priorities set the sequence to be inventory holder storing the frozen inventory items first followed by inventory holder storing the cool inventory items followed by inventory holder storing ambient inventory items . In some embodiments management module may additionally or alternatively set a schedule by which those inventory holders are to be transported to inventory stations . The schedule may be calculated to reduce and or minimize the amount of time that inventory holders storing cool inventory items and inventory holders storing frozen inventory items are away from their respective temperature zones and or . Alternatively or in addition the schedule may be calculated to reduce and or minimize the amount of time that inventory holders storing cool inventory items and inventory holders storing frozen inventory items are disconnected from refrigeration such as inventory holders and or .

At step management module may select one or more mobile drive units to retrieve those inventory holders selected in step . At step management module may instruct and or issue task assignments to one or more mobile drive units to retrieve those inventory holders and to transport them to one or more inventory stations . In some embodiments management module may assign priorities to the instructions to the mobile drive units that correspond to the priorities assigned to the inventory holders and or . Using the example discussed above instructions and or first task assignments to transport inventory holder storing ambient inventory items may be assigned a first priority instructions and or first task assignments an inventory holder storing cool inventory items may be assigned a second priority and instructions and or first task assignments another inventory holder storing frozen inventory items may be assigned a third priority. The relative priorities may be similar to those discussed above.

At step management module may determine whether first locations are available at inventory station . For example management module may determine whether any first locations are occupied at inventory station . For example first locations may include locations at inventory station and or queue spaces associated with inventory station . In some embodiments a queue may be associated with inventory station and management module may determine whether there are any available queue spaces. Inventory holders and or may wait in the queue while orders are filled at inventory station by other inventory holders and or .

If at step there are no available locations because for example there are second inventory holders and or occupying the locations at inventory stations method may proceed to step . In some embodiments method may proceed to step if there are second inventory holders and or in queue to inventory station . At step the priorities of second inventory holders and or may be compared to the first inventory holders and or . Management module may determine whether any priorities assigned to the first inventory holders and or are higher than any priorities assigned to the second inventory holders and or . For example management module may determine that one of second inventory holders storing cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items is assigned a higher priority than one of first inventory holders storing ambient inventory items .

If there are second inventory holders or in the first locations that have lower priority then at step management module may select one or more of the first inventory holders and or to move away from the first locations to second locations. If for example there are multiple first inventory holders and or with lower priority than one of second inventory holders and or management module may select the one of the multiple first inventory holders with lower priority to move to a second location.

At step management module may instruct one or more mobile drive units to transport the second inventory holders and or to second locations. Second locations may for example represent a different and or lower queue space. Second locations may also in some embodiments represent one or more drift locations. Those second inventory holders and or moved to second locations may wait at those locations until a trigger event occurs such as a location at inventory station and or a queue space becoming available. In some embodiments management module may after predetermined amounts of time increase the priority of waiting inventory holders and or based on the amount of time those inventory holders have been waiting. Those inventory holders and or may thus gradually increase in priority as appropriate to ensure that they will have the priority to eventually be selected for movement to inventory station . This may facilitate preventing stranding and or starving inventory holders that might otherwise continually be passed over by higher priority inventory holders .

After the second inventory holders and or are moved to second locations management module may at step instruct mobile drive units to proceed with the first inventory holders and or to inventory station . In some embodiments the first inventory holders and or may first be placed into one of the queue spaces behind other inventory holders and or that have higher priorities. Once at inventory station orders for inventory items and or lines of orders for inventory items stored by those holders may be completed at step .

If at step the first inventory holders and or do not have higher priority than any of the second inventory holders and or in the first locations management module may instruct mobile drive units to transport the first inventory holders and or to the second locations. For example mobile drive units may be instructed to transport first inventory holders and or to one or more drift locations. Alternatively or in addition management module may instead allow first inventory holders and or to remain in storage locations and or zones and or while the higher priority orders from second inventory holders and or are completed. For example management module may assign a higher priority on inventory holders storing frozen inventory items that have left zone and or are disconnected from refrigeration than inventory holders storing frozen inventory items that are still in zone and or are connected to refrigeration. As another example management module may assign a higher priority to completing an earlier order for ambient inventory items that is in the process of being filled over a later order for cool inventory items and or frozen inventory items where those items are still being refrigerated. Thus management module may schedule transportation of those inventory items for a later time and or after the earlier order has been completed.

At step secondary inventory holders and or wait for a trigger event to occur. For example a queue space higher in the queue may become available and or a location at inventory station may become available. At any appropriate trigger event may be detected including any of the events discussed above with respect to step . Once the trigger event is detected by management module at step the method may proceed to step where mobile drive units are instructed to proceed with the first inventory holders and or to inventory station as explained above.

In some embodiments management module may modify assigned priorities based on various factors. For example management module may increase an assigned priority of an inventory holder that is disconnected from refrigeration. For example inventory holder may be away from zone or . Management module may similarly increase an assigned priority of an inventory holder such as inventory holder that has been disconnected from outlet vent or inventory holder that has been disconnected from a power source. For such inventory holders management module may similarly increase assigned priorities based on time away from refrigeration and or time exposed to ambient and or room temperatures. For embodiments of inventory holder capable of running on battery power management module may increase priority based on inventory holder being on battery power and or based on a battery charge level falling below a predetermined threshold. Additionally or alternatively management module may modify assigned priorities based on temperatures received from temperature sensors while inventory holders are in transport.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to method illustrated in the flowcharts of . For example management module may be capable of assigning many tasks at once and or in parallel. Thus management module may also process many orders in parallel and or in sequence. Moreover management module may be capable of fulfilling orders for any number and types of inventory facilities. Orders corresponding to various of those facilities may be processed by management module sequentially and or at the same time using various inventory stations . Additionally the steps of may be performed in parallel or in any suitable order. Moreover the embodiments described with respect to the of the present disclosure are expected be fully combinable and suitable for use in appropriate embodiments described herein.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In certain embodiments memory may be memory includes in any of the system components discussed above such as management module and or mobile drive units . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. In certain embodiments storage may be included in any appropriate component of system including management module and or mobile drive units . Storage may include removable or non removable i.e. fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While particular embodiments of inventory system are illustrated it should be appreciated that the teaching of the present disclosure may be applied to any type and number of inventory systems. For example inventory system may represent a merchandise return facility. In such an embodiment inventory items may represent merchandise returned by customers. Units of these inventory items may be stored in inventory holders when received at the facility. At appropriate times a large number of units may be removed from a particular inventory holder and packed for shipment back to a warehouse or other facility.

As yet another example inventory system may represent a manufacturing facility with inventory items representing individual components of a manufacturing kit to be included in an assembled product such as electronic components for a customized computer system. In such an embodiment inventory system may retrieve particular components identified by a specification associated with an order for the product so that a customized version of the product can be built. Although a number of example embodiments are described inventory system may in general represent any suitable facility or system for storing and processing inventory items. Similarly inventory items may represent objects of any type suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in a particular inventory system .

Additionally management module may represent a single component multiple components located at a central location within inventory system and or multiple components distributed throughout inventory system . For example management module may represent components of one or more mobile drive units that are capable of communicating information between the mobile drive units and coordinating movement of mobile drive units in transporting inventory holders . In general management module may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software suitable to provide the described functionality and may further include components located on mobile drive units stations or other elements of inventory system .

Furthermore as noted above management module may include components of individual mobile drive units . Thus for the purposes of this description communication between management module and a particular mobile drive unit may represent communication between components of a particular mobile drive unit . In general mobile drive units may be powered controlled and propelled in any manner appropriate based on the configuration and characteristics of inventory system .

Moreover while the present disclosure discusses specific examples of container holders any appropriate number and types of container holders may be used. For example container holders may be substantially similar or identical to inventory holders . For example inventory system may include general purpose holders that can be used as both inventory holders and container holders . Inventory system may include a number of general purpose holders that may be dynamically designated as an inventory holder or a container holder depending on whether inventory items or containers are stored on the relevant holder at that particular time. Moreover in particular embodiments holders may be configured to simultaneously store both inventory items and containers and a particular holder may at a particular point in time represent both an inventory holder and a container holder .

It should also be noted that the various components of inventory system complete various operations involving inventory items and or the components of inventory system themselves. Management module manages the operation of components and the use of various system resources to facilitate the fulfillment of these tasks. Although the description above focuses on various embodiments of inventory system capable of performing specific operations a particular embodiment of inventory system may be configured to perform any appropriate operations associated with the storage processing transport or removal of inventory items .

Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments a myriad of changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass such changes variations alterations transformations and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover while the present disclosure has been described with respect to various embodiments it is fully expected that the teachings of the present disclosure may be combined in a single embodiment as appropriate.

