---

title: Metamaterial sensor platforms for terahertz DNA sensing
abstract: A sensor platform is provided for interrogating a sample with an electromagnetic (EM) wave. The platform includes: a dielectric material having opposing first and second planar surfaces; a first array of loop elements embedded in the first planar surface of the dielectric material, wherein slots are formed between the loop elements in the first array of loop elements and configured to host a sample material therein; and a second array of loop elements embedded in the second planar surface of the dielectric material and formed symmetrically with respect to the first array of loop elements, wherein slots are also formed between the loop elements of the second array of loop elements. The loop elements in the first array and the second array are comprised of a conductive material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09551655&OS=09551655&RS=09551655
owner: The Regents Of The University Of Michigan
number: 09551655
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150728
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 029 770 filed on Jul. 28 2014. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under EECS1059177 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Terahertz sensing has attracted numerous research activities in past decades. Due to the fact that many materials exhibit unique spectrum signatures in THz different materials can be easily characterized in this band. Although a lot of research are focused on wideband sensing that are trying to capture fingerprint of different materials in THz narrow band THz bio sensing based on resonance has been pursued extensively as well since binding state of DNA can be identified through its refractive index change in THz. Traditionally the change in DNA state from the single stranded DNA to the double stranded DNA molecules is investigated by tagging the target DNA with certain agents such as fluorescent ones. Although this method has widespread applications in DNA sensing it has disadvantages such as the unwanted interference from the tagging agent and the extra preparatory steps. For biomolecule like DNA its refractive index depends on its binding state to known probes. Therefore measurement of the change in refractive index enables the label free direct detection and identification of genetic sequences. In M. Gagel et al s Integrated THz technology for label free genetic diagnostics Applied Physics Letters Vol. 80 No. 1 pp 154 156 2002 and P. Bolivar et al s Label free THz sensing of genetic sequences Towards THz biochips Philos. Tran. R. Soc. London Ser. A Math Phys. Eng. Sci. Vol. 362 pp. 323 333 2004 integrated on chip microstrip line resonator is employed to sense refractive index change in DNA. A split ring resonator SRR on a paper substrate is demonstrated to have capability to distinguish glucose solutions with different concentrations.

Generally speaking there are two important aspects in THz DNA resonance sensing. One is to increase sensitivity of the sensor. Various high Q resonators such as asymmetric split ring resonators ASRs shaped resonator are developed to achieve this. Another aspect is to reduce the amount of sample needed to characterize it. For example a near field source is employed in W. Withayachumnankul et al s Sub diffraction thin film sensing with planar terahertz metamaterials Optics Express Vol. 20 No 9. 3 pp 3345 3352 2012 to focus the energy onto a tiny spot beyond the diffraction limit which consequently reduces the amount of sample needed.

In this disclosure subwavelength scatterers are combined together to produce high order response that is useful to increase sensitivity of the DNA sensors. Three different sensing structures are proposed. Analysis is made based on their circuit models. Full wave simulation results are also included to demonstrate performance of these sensors.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

A sensor platform is provided for interrogating a sample with an electromagnetic EM wave. The platform includes a dielectric material having opposing first and second planar surfaces a first array of loop elements embedded in the first planar surface of the dielectric material wherein slots are formed between the loop elements in the first array of loop elements and configured to host a sample material therein and a second array of loop elements embedded in the second planar surface of the dielectric material and formed symmetrically with respect to the first array of loop elements wherein slots are also formed between the loop elements of the second array of loop elements. The loop elements in the first array and the second array are comprised of a conductive material.

In one aspect the loop elements in the first array and the second array are dimensioned smaller than the given operating wavelength and in particular are dimensioned for an electromagnetic EM wave having a frequency on the order of one terahertz.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The drawings described herein are for illustrative purposes only of selected embodiments and not all possible implementations and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Configuration of an example bio sensing platform in this disclosure is illustrated in . A metamaterial sensor platform shown in the figure consists of three layers an upper reactance layer dielectric coupling layer and a lower reactance layer . Two reactance layers are composed by periodic subwavelength scatterers that are operating in metamaterial regime i.e. its size is much smaller than the operating wavelength . Different from the traditional frequency selective surface FSS whose selectivity is based on capacitance and inductance provided by high order Floquet mode this metamaterial sensor relies on the resonance characteristics of small scatters. Some traditional FSSs can indeed have a very sharp pass band or stop band. Especially when the FSS operating near the Wood Rayleigh anomaly the extraordinary transmission however is mainly determined by the period of the scatters instead of their individual feature. Therefore metamaterial sensors based on resonant subwavelength scatterers will be more sensitive to the sample around it that can change its resonance feature.

When a sensing test is performed a plane wave is incident normally onto the sensing platform and a receiver is located at the other side to detect the transmission signal. Depending on types of small scatterers a transmission peak dip or both of them can occur. By putting samples with different refractive indices on the right location of the sensor change in these transmission characteristics can be observed which can help to distinguish different samples. While specific reference is made to electromagnetic waves having a frequency on the order to one terahertz it is understood that the sensor platform is applicable to signals having different frequencies for example ranging from 100 GHz to 30 THz.

With such a periodic structure electromagnetic response of a unit cell is enough to determine response of the entire sensor. In the following section physical circuit model and numerical HFSS full wave simulation are combined to analyze different sensor structure and provide a guide to design them. In the full wave simulation all metals and dielectrics are assumed to be perfect electric conductor and ideal dielectric without loss respectively. Periodic boundary conditions are forced at four sides around the unit cell. Plane wave is illuminated from one of those two sides that are parallel with the sensor platform as shown in and transmitted wave is detected from the other side.

The first example embodiment is a patch wire structure shown in whose equivalent circuit is shown in . In this arrangement a dielectric coupling layer is sandwiched between a patch layer and a wire layer . The patch layer is partitioned by a series of slots thereby forming an array of different patches . The patch layer and the wire layer are comprised of a metal e.g. silver gold or copper or another type of conductive material. In the example embodiment the coupling layer is comprised of a dielectric material such as SU 8 or Parylene although other types of dielectric materials are contemplated by this disclosure.

Charge deposition along the slots between different patches provides the capacitance C while current flow through wire layer contributes to the inductance L. An approximate equation to estimate Cand Lare shown in 1 and 2 .

To validate proposed circuit model a comparison between results obtained by full wave simulation and circuit model simulation is shown in . Apparently the circuit model can qualitatively predict the transmission curve providing a physical insight into the operation scheme of this sensor. The discrepancy between the two curves is mainly caused by the omitted series reactance that is determined by the thickness of the reactance layer.

In previous patch wire structures a huge capacitance is needed to narrow the pass band. As can be seen from 1 one can either increase period of patch or decrease slot width to enhance capacitance. However the period has to be controlled to be much smaller than the operating wavelength in order to stay in the metamaterial region the slot width is also limited by the fabrication technology. One possible solution to this problem is to replace the patch layer with a loop layer as shown in .

In an example embodiment a dielectric coupling layer is sandwiched between a loop layer and a wire layer . The loop layer is comprised of an array of loop elements embedded into the planar surface of the dielectric material forming the coupling layer such that each loop element encircle a portion of the dielectric material. In the example embodiment each of the loop elements are in the shape of a square and the array is arranged as a grid. The loop elements may take on other shapes including triangles hexagons as well as other regular or irregular polygons. Likewise the loop elements may be arranged in other periodic or repeating patterns. Like the wire layer the loop elements are comprised of a metal such a silver gold or copper or another type of conductive material. To host the sample material being interrogated slots are formed in between each of the loop elements . Each slot is sized to host a sample material.

The loop layer can be seen as a series branch composed of Cand L. These capacitor and inductor are associated with charge deposition between loop gap and current flowing along loop respectively. The overall circuit model is shown in where shunt capacitors brought by the transmission is again omitted. In the circuit model a transmission zero is associated with the L Cseries breach. Close to this resonant point this branch acts like a huge capacitance. This capacitance will parallel resonate with other reactance elements in the circuit to create a transmission maximum. This large huge and frequency variant capacitance that can be exploited to sharpen the pass band. Full wave simulation results of this structure are shown in . Similar to the patch wire structure smaller inductance Lcorresponds to a narrower pass band. The lower transmission peak is caused by the same reason as in the patch wire structure a smaller Lcan only draw less power from the inductor divider. Table II lists simulation results for loop wire structures.

One common yet minor drawback in patch wire and loop wire structures is that at the output stage there is always an inductor divider to prevent all power being transferred. In order to sharpen the pass band a smaller Lis needed. This will however decrease output power. It seems feasible to decrease coupling inductance Lassociated with the dielectric layer between two reactance layers to solve this problem. This however has two problems. One is that thickness of dielectric layer is limited by the fabrication process. Moreover when the dielectric is too thin direct electromagnetic coupling may occur between these two reactance layers which is not expected in our case.

One solution to this problem is a symmetrical loop structure shown in . The upper reactance layer and the lower reactance layer are again separated by a coupling layer . In this embodiment an array of loop elements is formed in each of the reactance layers . That is the coupling layer is comprised of a dielectric material having opposing first and second planar surfaces . A first array of loop elements is formed in the first planar surface whereas a second array of loop elements is formed in the second planar surface. The first array of loop elements is formed symmetrically with the second array of loop elements . As noted above the loop elements are dimensioned smaller than the operating wavelength. For loop elements in shape of a regular polygon the length of each side of the polygon is smaller than the operating wavelength. Except with respect to this difference the structure is substantially the same as described above in relation .

In 3 Sis the transmission coefficient from input to output Z Z are the reflection coefficient and the input impedance at output port for the even odd mode circuit respectively. If the parallel resonance frequency of odd mode circuit fis not far away from even mode circuit resonance frequency f then is 1 and is around 1 at fsince Z in this case is much smaller than Z. Consequently a transmission peak with a 100 power being transmitted can be achieved. Even when fand fare separated there will always be a frequency below fat which Zis capacitive and Zis inductive such that is equal to . Subsequently Sis 1. Full wave simulation result for this structure is shown in . With this structure samples are needed to be filled within the gaps between loops on both sides. An appropriate support to the samples on the backside is assumed here.

One interesting feature of this symmetrical loop structure is that the resonance frequency shift can be controlled by deliberate design. In this structure the more fis deviated from f the further away fis located below fsince a smaller Zis needed. Thus one can increase thickness of substrate to enhance L which then provides a larger separation between fand fthat can give rise to a larger frequency shift. Of course a larger Lwill according to the circuit model widen the pass band. Therefore a tradeoff can be made between narrow bandwidth and large resonance frequency shift. To illustrate this simulation results of increasing Lis shown in . The dimensions are also being modified to make it resonate at the same frequency. Simulation results are summarized in Table III for the purpose of comparison.

In addition the amount of sample needed in a test can be reduced by half if one uses an appropriate polarization of incident wave. Only slots perpendicular to the electric field needs to be filled since electric field mainly interacts with these slots. plots the transmission curves obtained from sensor with all the slots filled and sensor with only slots perpendicular to the electric field polarization direction filled. Apparently there is no practical difference between these two curves. Therefore amount of sample needed is reduced.

In summary different metamaterial platform have been proposed for use in DNA sensors. Design guideline based on circuit model counterparts is outlined in this disclosure. Full wave simulation results validate the high sensitivity achieved by proposed sensors.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

