---

title: Training (reuseable), and tactical (guidance adaptable), 40 mm projectile
abstract: Shown is a family of low spin and essentially no spin, full in-bore 40 mm projectiles which can be fired from a standard M203 or M320 grenade gun launcher. The projectiles have extended range through over 1000 meters and also have the capability for adding on guidance-navigation and control features/components for great accuracy. Increased accuracy is also provided by another, rear fin type projectile embodiment. The projectiles can be lengthened to accommodate more lethal fragments, and increased amount of explosive and energetic. At the same time, there is provided a training round of analogous performance for all these tactical projectiles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09194675&OS=09194675&RS=09194675
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09194675
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150105
---
This application is a continuation in part of commonly assigned application Ser. No. 13 761 861 filed Feb. 7 2013 of same title and same inventors which parent application in itself claims benefit under 35 USC 119 e from provisional application 61 601 609 filed Feb. 22 2012 the entire file wrapper contents of all of which applications are hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set forth.

The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This round enables a projectile to be fired but without imparted spin from a M203 M320 grenade Launcher. This is an achievement since the barrel of the M203 M320 is rifled which ordinarily would spin up a projectile such as the typically used M433 HE Dual Purpose projectile as it travels down the barrel tube and the projectile would leave the gun tube with a high spin rate for spin stabilization. Eliminating this spin is an achievement because the projectile could then be fitted with guidance control which would greatly enhance the performance of the projectile. However to add such guidance control the projectile must not be spinning. Instead fins will subsequently be used here after launch for fin stabilization.

The M203 M320 are not stand alone gun launchers but are used by attachment to an M16 or M4 rifle for instance. They can then fire a family of 40 mm low velocity projectile rounds. In order to load a 40 mm round into an M203 the forward sleeve of the gun tube is slid forward and a 40 mm round is pushed into the sleeve. The sleeve is then slid backwards and locked into position ready to fire. The barrel of the M203 is rifled which spins up the projectile as it travels down the barrel tube and the projectile leaves the gun tube with a high spin rate. The area of rifling is approximately six inches in length.

Projectiles currently used in M203 M320 grenade launchers include the M433 High Explosive Dual Purpose Round the M406 High Explosive Round M583A Star Parachute Round M585 White Star Cluster Round M713 Ground Marker Round M781 Practice Round M651 CS Round and the M576 Buckshot Round.

The 40 mm cartridge case is typically not reused or recycled after firing. If the cartridge case becomes stuck in the gun tube there is a tool to help the war fighter push it from the tube. The M320 fires the same 40 mm low velocity ammunition as the M203. There are several improvements that the M320 has compared to the M203. The M320 has stand alone single shot capability and may be fired by the war fighter without attaching to a gun. it also has the capability to be attached to and fired from the M16 M4 rifle similarly to the M203. A major improvement of the M320 is the ability of the firing tube to open sideways. By opening sideways longer ammunition can be loaded into the M320 gun tube as compared to loading in an M203. While the approximate maximum length of the projectile is approximately five inches in the M203 projectiles several inches longer can be loaded into an M320. Both M203 and M320 have rifled barrels which induce spinning in the projectile as it travels through the gun tube.

There exists a great need to develop a new family of 40 mm projectiles that can extend range through increased velocity and projectile shape to over 1000 meters to have the capability for adding on optional guidance navigation and control features components to increase projectile length to accommodate more lethal fragments and increased amount of explosive and energetic and to increase lethality through enhanced precision and more accurate strikes. At the same time it is necessary to provide a training projectile that flies similarly to the tactical projectile which will allow a war fighter the opportunity to train with a realistically similar flying projectile that performs analogously to its actual tactical projectile equivalent. The training projectile can also be equipped with an inert florescent powder where upon ground or target impact the projectile releases the powder to imitate an explosion. When the projectile is needed for battle it is equipped instead with a fuze explosive shape charge liner and or warhead and it is equipped to defeat a target upon impact. Additionally optional guidance and control components features can be added to the front or side of this projectile utilized for battle. The optional guidance and control features provide increased accuracy and more precision hits on targets up to and beyond 1000 meters a goal which is sought . Guided ammunition would need to have no spin or very little spin so that the seeker or camera therein for instance can see the target clearly while in flight. The conventional M203 or M320 grenade launcher guns have internal rifling intended to spin up the projectiles at approximately 1800 revolutions per second for stabilization of flight. Clearly then a way must be found to avoid the spin which is inherent in conventional M203 or M320 grenade launcher guns when optional guidance is desired to be added to the projectile.

An entirely new round is presented for use in the M203 or M320 Grenade Launchers which will accomplish all the above mentioned goals. The included projectile will not be appreciably spun up by the launcher barrel rifling at all. This in flight projectile is arranged to be decoupled from its rear holding cup assembly and rear obturator so it won t spin. The new in flight projectile of this invention will further provide for a new family of 40 mm projectiles that can extend range through increased velocity and optimized projectile shape by over 600 to 1000 meters. It will also have the capability for adding on optional guidance and control components features to the front or side of this projectile utilized for battle. The optional guidance and control features provide increased accuracy and more precision hits on targets up to and beyond 1000 meters a goal which is sought . Guided ammunition needs to have no spin or very little spin so that the seeker or camera therein for instance can see the target clearly while in flight this invention fully satisfies this requirement.

This invention also can allow for an increase in projectile length to accommodate more lethal fragments and increased amount of explosive and energetic. The invention will therefore increase lethality through enhanced precision and more accurate strikes. At the same time this invention will also allow a war fighter the opportunity to train with a realistically similar flying projectile that performs analogously to its actual tactical projectile equivalent. It has similar shape weight and flies like the tactical projectile. It also may provide florescent powder for training substituted for the energetic items otherwise used for actual battle operations. The inert florescent powder would be released upon ground or target impact and the powder would imitate an explosion. When the projectile is needed for battle on the other hand it is equipped instead with a fuze explosive shape charge liner and or warhead and it is equipped to defeat a real target upon impact.

There are currently no Canard Activation Systems CAS for a 40 mm projectile. Each CAS system is unique to the projectile it is used for. A spin stabilizer projectile in 40 mm will not work for this because the spin rate is changing every fraction of a second and true position cannot be found. In this invention as this non spinning 40 mm projectile travels down range directions of up down and right left will always be the same. Larger projectiles in 60 mm and larger calibers have added space to tell true position but the space and cost allowance for a 40 mm projectile make such prohibitive . This invention achieves launch without spin therefore these advanced systems can now be added.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention for example could be used on grenade launchers other than an M320 including stand alone devices to receive a grenade launcher other types of shoulder launched weapons or weapons other than grenade launchers and for ammunition other than necessarily the caliber or types shown here where the principles of the invention might be beneficially employed.

