---

title: Signed response to an abusive email account owner and provider systems and methods
abstract: Systems and methods for abusive email account detection and transmission of a signed response to an abusive email account owner and provider. The methods include receiving an email from a first email account on a second email account, wherein the email contains malicious content, determining if a trust relationship exists between a first email server corresponding to the first email account and a second email server corresponding to the second email account, and transmitting, using a hardware processor of the second email server, an alert email to the first email account corresponding to the trust relationship, wherein the alert email includes a digital signature and a secure field having an abusive category descriptor in an email header. The secure field may include an abusive category descriptor, for example transmitting spam, transmitting malware, transmitting phishing attempts, and committing fraud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635038&OS=09635038&RS=09635038
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09635038
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151116
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 918 631 filed Jun. 14 2013 which is also hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application generally relates to actionable and or malicious email detection and protection and more specifically to systems and methods for automated detection of abusive email accounts and transmission of a signed response to the abusive email account owner and provider.

Users increasingly use email as a primary source of communication. However security threats to user email accounts are more prevalent with the rise in this form of communication. For example spam malware and phishing attempts are becoming much more common. Often emails containing these threats are sent from shell or compromised email accounts. Compromised account owners may be unaware their account has been compromised and is sending malicious content. In other situations shell accounts may be established by abusive actors to transmit malicious content. Thus email providers of both receiving email accounts and abusive email accounts need to be made aware of the shell or compromised accounts in order to take proper actions to protect parties.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

In one embodiment a first email account may receive a suspicious email potentially containing malicious content such as spam malware and or phishing attempts websites and or content. In response to receiving the suspicious email and determining a corresponding email account a responding party such as the first email account holder and or responding email server may transmit a reporting email to the suspicious and or abusive email account and or a mailing server corresponding to the suspicious and or abusive email account. A trust relationship between the two servers may be previously established. For example in certain embodiments the reporting email contains a digital signature as a trust value including at least one field that may correspond to values in the email header allowing the holder of the suspicious email account to be warned of the abusive activity. Additionally the reporting email may help the mailing server corresponding to the suspicious email account identify the account and take proper action. Thus the suspicious email account and or the corresponding mailing server may be informed of malicious activity. Additionally the responding party s mailing server can be automatically informed of suspicious accounts.

In certain embodiments the validity of the reporting email may be verified using an encryption key corresponding to the reporting email s digital signature. Such a key may be possessed by the decrypting party because of the prior established trust relationship. In one embodiment the encryption key may be previously obtained by the suspicious email account and or mailing server. However in other embodiments the encryption key may be transmitted with the reporting email or obtained from the signing authority through the Domain Name System DNS .

Networked system environment may be configured to handle processes in accordance with embodiments provided herein. System environment includes an abusive account email server and a reporting email server in communication over a network for example through transmission and receipt of a malicious email . Additionally reporting email server and or reporting account may be in communication with abusive account email server and or abusive account using a reporting email .

Abusive account email server and reporting email server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system environment and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system environment .

Abusive account email server of may include an email service provider server and corresponding email accounts email clients and other data and applications. Generally abusive account email server may be maintained by any entity that provides and services email accounts to users. In this regard abusive account email server may include email client application accessible to a user for example a web based email client. However in various embodiments abusive account email server maintains email accounts for use with a locally available email client.

Email client application may correspond to a web based or client side email client for example MICROSOFT OUTLOOK GOOGLE GMAIL and YAHOO MAIL . Email client application may allow a user to access an email account in order to transmit and receive emails. Thus email client application may include an interface and corresponding processes for use by a user.

In various embodiments other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desirable features to abusive account email server and or a user. Other applications may include security applications for implementing client and or server side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. For example other applications may contain software programs such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more client user devices via the network . The GUI enables the client user devices to access and communicate with abusive account email server for example to access and utilize email client application and corresponding processes. Other application may include software applications and or processes to retrieve encryption keys and or decrypt data such as digital signatures. Additionally other applications may include processes to identify abusive account as a shell or compromised account from reporting email and take appropriate action.

Abusive account email server may include encryption data stored as encryption data . Encryption data may correspond to stored encryption keys allowing abusive account email server to decrypt data including verifying digital signatures and or decrypting secure fields. Encryption data may be previously received by abusive account email server through a secure process through a shared secret transmitted to abusive account email server retrieved by abusive account email server such as from a designated domain name and or central key repository and or otherwise received. However in other embodiments encryptions data may contain different or separate data corresponding to a trust relationship between abusive account email server and other servers. Encryption data may thus contain data corresponding to a trust relationship established between abusive email account server and reporting email server .

In various embodiments abusive account email server includes at least one network interface component NIC adapted to communicate with network including reporting email server . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Abusive account email server contains email accounts including an abusive account transmitting malicious email and receiving reporting email . Email accounts correspond generally to an email address and mailbox for exchange of emails. Abusive account may correspond to a shell or compromised email account that is transmitting suspicious and or malicious emails. For example abusive account may transmit spam malware and or phishing emails and or content. Abusive email account may be acting to defraud others through emails scams and or abuse. Abusive account may be known to be abusive by the account holder. However in other embodiments abusive account may correspond to a compromised account where the holder is unaware of the accounts actions.

Reporting email server of may include an email service provider server and corresponding email accounts email clients and other data and applications. Generally reporting email server may be maintained by any entity that provides and services email accounts to users. In this regard reporting email server may include email client application accessible to a user for example a web based email client. However in various embodiments reporting email server maintains email accounts for use with a locally available email client.

Email client application may correspond to a web based or client side email client for example MICROSOFT OUTLOOK GOOGLE GMAIL and YAHOO MAIL . Email client application may allow a user to access an email account in order to transmit and receive emails. Thus email client application may include an interface and corresponding processes for use by a user.

In various embodiments other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desirable features to reporting email server and or a user. Other applications may include security applications for implementing client and or server side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. For example other applications may contain software programs such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more client user devices via the network . The GUI enables the client user devices to access and communicate with reporting email server for example to access and utilize email client application and corresponding processes. Other application may include software applications and or processes to generate encryption keys and or encrypt data such as digital signatures. Additionally other applications may include processes to identify malicious email as suspicious or malicious and generate reporting email .

Reporting email server may include encryption data stored as encryption data . Encryption data may correspond to generated and or stored encryption keys allowing reporting email server to encrypt data including generating digital signatures and or encrypting secure fields. Encryption data may be previously generated by reporting email server and transmitted to abusive account email server through a secure process through a shared secret transmitted to abusive account email server retrieved by abusive account email server such as from a designated domain name and or central key repository and or otherwise transmitted. However in other embodiments encryptions data may contain different or separate data corresponding to a trust relationship between reporting email server and other servers. Encryption data may thus contain data corresponding to a trust relationship established between abusive email account server and reporting email server .

In various embodiments reporting email server includes at least one network interface component NIC adapted to communicate with network including abusive account email server . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Reporting email server contains email accounts including a receiving account receiving malicious email and transmitting reporting email . Email accounts correspond generally to an email address and mailbox for exchange of emails. Receiving account may correspond to an email account that is receiving suspicious and or malicious emails. For example receiving account may receive spam malware and or phishing emails and or content. Receiving account may know malicious email to be suspicious or malicious. However in other embodiments receiving account may be unaware of the email purpose and or content. Thus reporting server may contain other processes and or application to identify malicious email as suspicious or malicious.

Reporting email server transmits reporting email . As will be discussed below reporting email may correspond to an alert email that may be generated by reporting email server in response to malicious email and contain a secure field such as digital signature. Reporting email may be generated consistent with a prior trust relationship established with abusive account email server . Additionally reporting email may have a secure field which information abusive account email server of the nature of malicious email .

DomainKeys Identified Mail DKIM is the example trust relationship that may exist between abusive account email server and reporting email server . DKIM attaches a new domain name identifier to a message and uses cryptographic techniques to validate authorization for its presence. The identifier is independent of any other identifier in the message such in the author s From field. DKIM may include a method using a cryptographic hash for the receiving mail provider abusive account email server of to know if an email message reporting email was sent by a domain reporting email server . In various embodiments the cryptographic hash may also allow the receiving mail provider to know who the sending mail provider is establishing the trust relationship for example through transmission of a cryptographic key or key repository location on a DNS.

In other embodiments email accounts may include email accounts transmitting emails that are not malicious and or abusive but instead are actionable by a receiving email account such as reporting account . For example reporting email server and or reporting account may be set to recognize specific emails by a controller of reporting email server or user of reporting account . In those embodiments reporting email server and or reporting account may transmit reporting email using the methods described herein in response to receiving the actionable email.

For example reporting account may be set to recognize an actionable email from a banking institution and respond with a reporting email to the server and or email account of the banking institution. The reporting email may be transmitted with using the prior established trust relationship. Thus the reporting email may contain a digital signature in the header and may include a secure field. The digital signature may provide validity of the email. Additionally the secure field may notify the banking institution of type of email received an action by the user of reporting account or other data.

At step of flowchart an email with actionable content such as malicious email is received from a first email account which is potentially a shell or compromised email account such as abusive account . The email may include suspicious and or malicious content such as spam malware and or phishing content. For example the content may execute processes when opening the email provide web links to malicious websites and or other contain harmful content. The email may be transmitted by the authority of the shell malicious or compromised account where the account holder may be unaware the account is transmitting malicious emails. A reporting email account such as reporting account corresponding to reporting email server may receive the email with actionable content.

The email server corresponding to the receiving reporting account may determine the first email account is acting maliciously based on suspicious content. Reporting email server may contain software and or processes to determine the email such as malicious email is suspicious or malicious. For example reporting email server may identify components of the malicious email as spam malware and or phishing or may identify a previously stored sender. In other embodiments reporting email server may provide for reporting functions for the receiving account holder for example a user interface button or forwarding email address. The first email account may be attempting to retrieve private security information from a receiving account through fraud or other deceit. Thus the receiving account may report and or transmit the malicious email to a reporting service corresponding to reporting email server .

In various embodiments the actionable email may correspond to an email the reporting email account is set to identify. In such embodiments the actionable email is not malicious however the reporting email account will still continue with the process shown in flowchart . Thus the reporting email account determines the actionable email may contain identifiable content initiating a reporting email as a response. As discussed above the reporting email account may be set to automatically determine the email is actionable or the reporting email server may provide reporting functions.

At step the email server determines if a trust relationship exists between the first email account s server and itself the second email account s server. The email server may do so by examining a database containing digital signatures and or encryption keys. In other embodiments the email server may look up encryption keys for example on the DNS and determine if the email server can form a trust relationship with the first email account s server or may request a relationship with the first email account s server.

Once the first email account is determined to be acting maliciously the reporting server may take steps to alert the abusive account email server of the abusive account. Thus at step an alert email is generated and transmitted where the alert email includes a digital signature in the header of the email. The digital signature may be formed in accordance with the trust relationship. Additionally the header may contain a secure field which may be encrypted. In certain embodiments the secure field may be encrypted using a symmetric key encryption where the key is previously shared with the decrypting entity. In other embodiments the private key of an asymmetric key pair encrypts the field. The decrypting key may be shared with the decrypting entity through a secure process through a shared secret transmitted to the decrypting entity retrieved by decrypting entity such as from a designated domain name and or central key repository and or other key sharing method.

The digital signature enables verification of reporting server thus allowing for verification of the alert email and the contents of the email. Using the secure field abusive account and abusive actions can be reported to abusive account email server . Thus through the secure field the abusive account email server may determine the category of abuse. Additionally the abusive account email server may retrieve a key to decrypt the secure field through a secure process through a shared secret transmitted and or retrieved from the reporting email server such as from a designated domain name and or central key repository and or other process.

At step of flowchart an alert email is received from a reporting server such as reporting email server and or reporting account . The alert email may be generated and transmitted as previously discussed and contain a digital signature in the email header. Additionally the email and or header may contain a corresponding secure field. The abusive account such as abusive account may receive the email alerting the holder of the potentially compromised account for example if the reporting server directly emails the abusive account. In various embodiments the abusive account s server may receive the alert email.

However where the abusive account is used as a shell account and or purposefully transmitting the malicious emails a corresponding email server needs to be alerted of the abusive account. Thus at step an email server corresponding to the abusive account determines if a trust relationship exists with the reporting server. Abusive account has a corresponding email server such as abusive account email server . The email server may have a prior trust relationship established with the reporting email server such as through the sharing of encryption keys digital signatures or other relationships. In other embodiments the email server may form a trust relationship with the reporting server for example by looking up the encryption key on the DNS or by receiving the encryption key in the alert email.

At step the email server of the abusive account verifies the alert email is from the sender the reporting server using the digital signature and the trust relationship. Thus the email server of the abusive account is able to identify the reporting server through the digital signature and or the trust relationship to ensure the alert email is valid. Additionally the abusive account s email server may decrypt the secure field to receive additional data such as a category of abuse.

Using the data in the field the email server of the abusive account is able to determine the abusive nature of the abusive account. For example the reporting server may flag the abusive account as spam transmitting malware and or committing fraud. The secure field may be verified using the trust relationship.

Using the received alert email the email server of the abusive account can identify the first email account and flag it as abusive at step . Thus the email server is able to notify the holder of the email account prevent future transmission of malicious emails or take other protective steps. In some embodiments the email server may terminate or close the abusive account and or prevent access to the email account and or email server by the holder of the abusive account for example by blocking a corresponding IP address.

In some embodiments the alert email may be configured to be transmitted to actionable content that is not malicious such as in response to specific emails and or specific emailing parties. Thus in such embodiments the alert email may instead alert the receiving email account and or server of receipt of a prior transmitted email and verify validity using a digital signature.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor. DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

