---

title: Solid imaging apparatus with improved part separation from the image plate
abstract: A replenishing device in an additive manufacturing system is disclosed having a sweeper that extends to a base of a reservoir that holds a liquid resin and horizontally across at least a portion of a cure inhibiting layer located on the base of the reservoir that functions as an imaging plate, with the sweeper positioned across at least a portion of a side of the cure inhibiting layer to at least one of retard a flow of the liquid resin across a portion of a top surface of the cure inhibiting layer by providing a physical barrier to the liquid resin, remove debris from the cure inhibiting layer, and agitate the liquid resin. Other devices are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486964&OS=09486964&RS=09486964
owner: B9CREATIONS, LLC
number: 09486964
owner_city: Rapid City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151207
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 600 729 filed Aug. 31 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 642 175 filed May 3 2012 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to production of three dimensional objects and more particularly to assembling three dimensional objects in a step wise fashion.

Three dimensional polymer parts can be produced via photopolymerization processes. In one such photopolymerization process a digital three dimensional model of the part to be created is produced. This model is digitally broken into cross sections. A fluid medium capable of altering its physical state when exposed to specified intensities and wavelengths of light is placed upon a planar transparent image plate. An exemplary fluid medium such as a photopolymer resin is exposed to patterns of light representing successive adjacent cross sections of the part being produced. This results in the creation of a hardened polymer layer in the desired shape attached to the image plate. This layer is then separated from the image plate. Subsequent adjacent cross sections are produced in the same manner and automatically integrated together to provide a step wise cross sectional assembly of the part. The part is drawn away from the substantially planar parallel surfaces of the fluid medium and image plate. This and similar processes are also known as 3D printing and hereinafter shall be referred to as such.

Layer wise assembler devices such as 3D printers are used to rapidly and autonomously produce parts based on computer input. Some 3D printers are used to produce runs of identical parts in the tens hundreds or thousands. Other 3D printer applications allow designers to rapidly prototype. That is the 3D printer enables a designer to create a physical prototype of a desired part that was first digitally created in a computer aided design program. This can then be used to examine the efficacy of the design in the real world. In the preceding examples uniform rapid production on the order of minutes is sought. 3D printing machines are designed with this design parameter in mind. Operators of 3D printing machines must constrain the design of parts being produced by the 3D printer in order to allow the machine to quickly produce quality parts. If a design is provided which is outside of the 3D printer s operating parameters inconsistent parts may be produced.

When a cross sectional layer is formed on the image plate the newly formed layer often adheres strongly to the image plate. Two types of forces prevent separation at the interface between the image plate and the newly formed layer 1 the adhesion force between the image plate and the newly formed layer and 2 a vacuum force present between planar objects in a fluid. The adhesion force is comprised of chemical bonding forces between the image plate and the newly forced layer. In some aspects the adhesion force also comprises mechanical adhesion forces between the image plate and the newly formed layer. In order to separate the part from the image plate and continue assembling it a separation force must be applied in order to overcome the adhesion and vacuum forces present.

Application of the separation force stretches and strains the part being formed in non uniform undesirable ways. In some 3D printers the separation force is strong enough to distort or destroy fragile portions of a part because the fragile portion is stretched strained and even completely separated from the part as the construction plate and part are repositioned relative to one another in order to form the next layer of the part. Because this separation force destroys or damages fine detailing in a desired part design the resolution of 3D printers has been limited. Parts containing for example very thin segments or intricate detailing e.g. channels tubing and the like cannot be produced are produced with an extremely high failure rate or must be produced at a very slow rate using different photopolymers in order to produce a part containing fragile sections that will not deform when exposed to the separation forces produced by the 3D printer.

Previous 3D printers have simply pulled the part away from the image plate. Application of significant separation force however causes the formed layer to be deformed or to break when the part is repositioned. Other approaches seek to minimize adhesion forces by applying an inert layer between the image plate and the newly formed layer such as the Teflon material available from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company of Wilmington Del. These approaches lessen the separation force by reducing adhesion forces but do not mitigate the vacuum force.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the subject matter to be claimed nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the subject matter to be claimed.

Embodiments relate to a replenishing device for of separating a part being formed from the image plate of an assembly device such as a 3D printer. The device comprises an image plate with a top image plate surface and a bottom plate surface. The device further comprises a reservoir to hold liquid resin located above the image plate and a cure inhibiting layer located between an area on the top image plate surface and the resin located within the reservoir. The device also comprises a sweeper that extends to a top of the cure inhibiting layer and horizontally across at least a portion of the cure inhibiting layer. The sweeper is positioned across at least a portion of a side of the cure inhibiting layer to at least one of retard a flow of liquid resin across the cure inhibiting layer by providing a physical barrier to the liquid resin agitate the liquid resin within the reservoir and remove debris from cure inhibiting layer.

Another embodiment of the device comprises a sweeper that extends to a base of a reservoir that holds a liquid resin and horizontally across at least a portion of a cure inhibiting layer located on the base of the reservoir that functions as an imaging plate with the sweeper positioned across at least a portion of a side of the cure inhibiting layer to at least one of retard a flow of the liquid resin across a portion of a top surface of the cure inhibiting layer by providing a physical barrier to the liquid resin remove debris from the cure inhibiting layer and agitate the liquid resin.

In another embodiment the device comprises an image plate slideable between a first image plate position and a second image plate position. The device also comprises a sweeper with a first end proximally located at least to a cure inhibiting layer that is on a top surface of the image plate the sweeper is positioned across at least a portion of a side of the cure inhibiting layer wherein the image plate slides in a single plane relative to the sweeper to cause the sweeper to at least one of retard the flow of liquid resin when a bottom portion of the sweeper contacts the cure inhibiting layer to expose at least a portion of the cure inhibiting layer to a cure inhibitor source remove debris from the cure inhibiting layer and agitate the resin as the image plate slides between the first image plate position and the second image plate position.

The present disclosure is directed to assembling three dimensional parts in a layer wise fashion Wherein separation forces between the assembler device and the part are minimized at certain interfaces. Assembler devices construct three dimensional parts in a layer wise fashion wherein a layer has a cross section and a thickness. The part may be produced from polymers metals or other materials. In some aspects of the present disclosure the part is produced by curing successive layers of photopolymer resin.

Assembler devices such as 3D printers cannot produce parts with fine detail because vacuum and bonding threes prevent removal of a newly created layer without the application of a strong separation force which may rip distort or otherwise destroy fine detailing in the part being created. The vacuum force holding the part to the image plate may be overcome by sliding the image plate along an axis parallel to the top surface of an image plate in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure as disclosed herein.

The utilization of a cure inhibiting layer placed upon the image plate may reduce the required separation force required for removing recently created layers of a part. The cure inhibiting properties of the cure inhibiting layer may be maintained by passively or actively supplying a cure inhibitor such as oxygen to the cure inhibiting layer. Utilization of a cure inhibiting layer in combination with sliding the image plate along an axis parallel to the top surface of the image plate reduces the separation forces required for removing newly created layers of a part from the image plate such that parts may be created with finer detail than previous assembler devices.

Referring to a schematic cross section side view of a 3D printer assembler device in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

Assembler device comprises an image plate and a build table configured to facilitate layer wise construction of three dimensional parts wherein a layer has a cross section and a thickness.

Image plate has an area of high elevation and an area of low elevation . Image plate may be constructed of glass metal plastic or any other alternative material as will become apparent to those having skill in the relevant art s upon reading the description herein. Image plate is configured to facilitate construction of part on a surface of image plate . Surface may be a top portion of image plate as depicted in .

Assembler device may construct parts by forming as through curing for example and assembling layers of thickness t. Low elevation area may be a thickness t lower than high elevation area . In another aspect low elevation area is more than one thickness t lower than high elevation area such as 3 mm lower. Layer thickness t may be the maximum thickness of layer assembler device is capable of producing for a desired minimum part resolution. Part resolution defines the minimum size a feature may be on part .

Build table is configured to support part as part is being constructed. Build table may comprise a planar portion adjacent to image plate . A first layer of part may be formed on the planar portion of build table . Subsequent layers may be formed and attached to a previous layer forming part in a layer wise fashion. Build table may be configured to alter the position of part . Build table may further comprise a vertical actuator configured to alter the vertical position of build table and the attached part being formed. Actuator may raise or lower build table and the attached part a distance equal to the thickness t of a new layer being formed. Actuator may alter the vertical position of build table some other distance. Raising build table a distance t facilitates creation of a new layer of thickness t which may attach to the build table or previously cured layer . Actuator may also raise a completed part to a position suitable for removal from assembler device . Build table may also be configured to allow manual position manipulation. For example build table may be raised by hand to a position suitable for removal of a completed part .

Actuator may lift build table and attached part a height greater than t. In some aspects lifting build table greater than height t allows resin to flow more quickly into the volume between part and image plate .

In an aspect Where cure inhibiting layer has some flexibility actuator may lower part some distance such as thickness t into cure inhibiting layer compressing cure inhibiting layer . This compression may forth excess resin from between part and cure inhibiting layer facilitating the creation of a desired new layer thickness. The compression may also reduce bonding forces between new layer and cure inhibiting layer .

Assembler device may be configured as sterolithographic or photolithographic device e.g. a 3D printer for constructing three dimensional parts from photopolymer resin by curing selected portions of liquid resin in a layer wise fashion via exposure to light wherein layer has a cross section and a thickness. Assembler device may further comprise a light source having an output directed toward the bottom portion of the image plate configured to cure successive layers of the part by projecting images corresponding with the cross section of each successive layer. Projector may be connected to assembler device via adjustable mounts.

Image plate may be constructed such that cure surface is exposed to resin . Light source e.g. a projector a laser and the like projects an image of the desired cross section onto a portion of image plate opposite resin . At the portion of image plate receiving light from light source image plate and other portions of assembler device e.g. reservoir support plate not shown in cure inhibiting layer not shown in and the like are substantially transparent permitting the cross section image to be transmitted to resin where a volume of the resin irradiated by the light hardens into the desired new layer . In some aspects assembler device produces parts to a resolution of 50 to 100 microns.

Successive layers may be added to part when part is adjacent to a specific portion of image plate . A portion of high elevation area may be transparent and configured to allow light to pass through a bottom portion of high elevation area to surface of high elevation area where new layer of liquid resin may be cured by the light adding new layer to part .

Thus when light source sends an image it irradiates a thin layer of resin trapped between surface and build table or a part layer . This irradiation cures and hardens new layer causing new layer to attach to build table or part being constructed.

Assembler device may additionally comprise reservoir . Reservoir may be configured to hold a desired volume of resin such as a photopolymer resin suitable for 3D printing. The volume of resin may fill reservoir to a desired fill line shown as a dashed line in . Reservoir may be at least partially constructed transparent material such as acrylic. Reservoir may be made of glass metal plastic or another material suitable for containing photopolymer resin . Reservoir comprises a base. The base may further comprise image plate . Where assembler device is a photolithographic device reservoir and image plate are configured to allow light to pass from light source to image plate surface where new layer of part is created via curing.

Image plate is configured to slide between a position where part is over high elevation area to a position where part is over low elevation area . In an aspect new layers are added when part is in a position over high elevation area . Part may be repositioned via horizontal translation. Horizontal translation of part minimizes the vacuum force preventing separation of part from image plate .

Assembler device may further comprise an actuator . Actuator is configured to alter the position of image plate . Actuator may be directly attached for movement to image plate . In another aspect where reservoir base comprises image plate actuator is connected to reservoir for movement. Actuator may be configured to slide image plate between a position where part is over high elevation area to a position where part is over low elevation area .

After new layer has formed reservoir may be translated horizontally via actuator until part is in a position where part is over low elevation area . Build table may be raised by actuator a distance equal to the thickness of layer . After reaching a new height suitable for creating and bonding another layer to part being constructed reservoir is repositioned such that build table and part are above high elevation area . This cycle is then repeated until part is fully formed. In some aspects the height suitable for creating and bonding another layer to part being constructed is a distance equal to the thickness of layer . In other aspects the height is some other distance.

In an alternative aspect build table is configured to slide between a position where part is over high elevation area to a position where part is over low elevation area . In an aspect new layers are added to part when part is in a position over high elevation area . Part may be repositioned via horizontal translation. Horizontal translation of part minimizes the vacuum force preventing separation of part from image plate . Built table translation may be facilitated by actuator .

Resin level may be monitored. The amount build table raises part may be limited to a distance that will not completely remove part from resin while it is being formed.

The height of build table may be controlled electronically. A computer may estimate the level of resin remaining in reservoir and raise build table a maximum distance which will not completely remove part being constructed from resin while it is being constructed. This estimation is performed by determining the volume of resin used in producing part as part is being formed calculating the resin level drop in the reservoir and subtracting the resin level drop from the initial resin level. After reaching a new height suitable for creating and bonding another layer to part being constructed reservoir is repositioned such that build table and part are above image plate . This cycle is then repeated until part is fully formed.

Now referring to a schematic cross section of an assembler device in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

Assembler device may further comprise cure inhibiting layer . Cure inhibiting layer is configured to prevent curing or hardening of an adjacent volume of resin . Cure inhibiting layer is positioned adjacent to liquid resin in an area where new layers are formed e.g. high elevation area . Cure inhibiting layer may prevent an adjacent volume of resin from curing even where conditions exist under which resin would normally cure. Image plate may further comprise Cure inhibiting layer . Surface of image plate may be cure inhibiting layer .

Cure inhibiting layer may be a rigid or flexible material configured to reduce bonding forces between new layer and cure inhibiting layer . Cure inhibiting layer may reduce bonding forces between new layer and cure inhibiting layer by inhibiting the curing of resin e.g. photopolymer resin in close proximity to cure inhibiting layer . Cure inhibiting layer may be comprised of a material that will in combination with an ion or free radical inhibit the curing of a microscopic layer of resin adjacent to cure inhibiting layer .

Cure inhibiting layer may be comprised of polydimethylsiloxane PDMS . For durability i.e. to avoid tearing and to allow multiple parts to be produced without replacing or repairing cure inhibiting layer cure inhibiting layer comprising PDMS may be at least 1 mm thick.

Image plate may comprise support plate and cure inhibiting layer . Support plate is configured to reinforce sure inhibiting layer .

Reservoir comprises a base. Base may further comprise image plate . Image plate is comprised of a cure inhibiting layer and a support plate .

On the side of reservoir facing projector there may be an opening which defines the area projector may output image on. The opening is located on one half of the bottom portion of reservoir corresponding with high elevation area where new layer is added to part . This opening is sealed with image plate .

An additional sealing layer not shown may be placed between support plate and reservoir in order to ensure a leak free seal. This sealing layer may be made of silicone rubber or other suitable materials apparent to those having ordinary skill in the relevant art s .

Cure inhibiting layer is placed on top of support plate . Cure inhibiting layer may be deposited onto support plate and then bonded to support plate via heat treatment. Cure inhibiting layer may also applied to support plate constructed of glass via spin coating. Additionally cure inhibiting layer may be deposited onto support plate via open mold oven cured methods. Support plate comprised of acrylic or glass is suitable for an open mold oven cured deposition method.

Channel or another portion of cure inhibiting layer such as surface may exposed to a volume of cure inhibitor which diffuses into cure inhibiting layer . The cure inhibitor comprises an ion or free radical. The cure inhibitor may be oxygen. Cure inhibiting layer and support plate are constructed such that there exist a surface which is in contact with liquid resin one side. Cure inhibiting layer and support plate are constructed such that at least one channel is in contact with atmosphere containing a cure inhibitor which can permeate the cure inhibiting layer .

The cure inhibitor diffuses through cure inhibiting layer such that it bonds with resin at surface of cure inhibiting layer . This bonding of cure inhibitor and resin inhibits the cure of resin in a microscopic layer on surface of cure inhibiting layer . Thus when projector sends an image it irradiates a thin layer of resin trapped between cure inhibiting layer surface and build table or the most recently cured layer . This irradiation cures and hardens a new layer attached to the build table or previously cured layer but with a microscopic uncured lubricating layer of resin between new layer and cure inhibiting layer surface .

After the new layer has formed reservoir is translated horizontally via actuator until build table and part are located over the low elevation area . The uncured resin layer at least partially lubricates this horizontal translation. Actuator then raises build table . After reaching a new height suitable for creating and bonding another layer to part being constructed reservoir is repositioned such that build table and part are above image plate where an additional layer may be added to part e.g. high elevation area . This cycle is then repeated until part is fully formed.

The height suitable for creating and bonding another layer to part being constructed may be a distance equal to the thickness of layer . In other aspects actuator moves part some other distance.

Referring now to a schematic cross section of assembler device comprising a primer layer in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is Shown.

Application of cure inhibiting layer may be facilitated by the application of a primer layer between cure inhibiting layer and other portions of image plate . Primer layer may increase the durability of cure inhibiting layer by providing an increased retaining force between cure inhibiting layer and other portions of image plate . Primer layer may also facilitate removal of portions of cure inhibiting layer when it is desirable to reapply cure inhibiting later as where cure inhibiting layer has become worn from use or damaged .

Referring now to a schematic cross section of assembler device comprising channels in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

In some aspects a portion of the base of reservoir comprises image plate . Image plate comprises cure inhibiting layer and support plate . Image plate also comprises high elevation area and covers approximately one half of reservoir.

Low elevation area the portion of reservoir bottom not covered by image plate is a depth d deeper than the surface of image plate . In some aspects d is the thickness of image plate . In other aspects d is greater or equal to the thickness of one layer of part .

In some aspects after new layer has formed actuator repositions reservoir relative to part such that the portion of reservoir under part does not contain cure inhibiting layer . The microscopic uncured resin layer between cure inhibiting layer and part at least partially lubricates this horizontal translation reducing the force needed to separate part from image plate . Actuator then raises build table a distance equal to the thickness of layer . After reaching a new height suitable for creating and bonding another layer to part being constructed reservoir is repositioned such that build table and part are above image plate . This cycle is then repeated until part is fully formed. In some aspects the height suitable for creating and bonding another layer to part being constructed is a distance equal to the thickness of layer . In other aspects part is moved some other distance.

Image plate or portions thereof may be secured via physical interlocks. In cure inhibiting layer is secured to other portions of assembler device via channels . Channel is a pathway allowing a portion of cure inhibiting layer to insertably connect to other portions of assembler device such as support plate or reservoir . Channel may interlock layers of image plate and prevent cure inhibiting layer from sliding during part production.

As shown in channel may also be configured to expose portions of cure inhibiting layer to the surrounding atmosphere or provide an interface for the atmosphere or a cure inhibitor such as oxygen to be fed into cure inhibiting layer .

Channel may exposed to a volume of cure inhibitor which diffuses into cure inhibiting layer . Cure inhibiting layer and support layer are constructed such that there exists a surface which is in contact with liquid resin one side. Cure inhibiting layer and support layer are constructed such that at least one channel is in contact with atmosphere containing a cure inhibitor Which can permeate the cure inhibiting layer . The cure inhibitor diffuses through cure inhibiting layer such that it bonds with resin at surface of cure inhibiting layer . This bonding of cure inhibitor and resin inhibits the cure of resin in a microscopic layer on surface of cure inhibiting layer .

Referring to a schematic bottom view of cure inhibiting layer in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

In this aspect projector shines an image of the desired cross section of layer being shown into an image area shown as a dashed box in . The dimensions of parts the assembler device may produce are limited by the size of image area . Multiple channels shown for clarity only as channels in extend from cure inhibiting layer through support plate to physically lock cure inhibiting layer to support plate and reservoir . Channels may also pass around the sides of support plate and maintain the position of cure inhibiting layer via physical contact.

Referring to a schematic side view of cure inhibiting layer in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

Channels shown for clarity only as channels in of the cure inhibiting later may extend a sufficient distance to be placed into contact with a quantity of cure inhibitor. This cure inhibitor permeates cure inhibiting layer . The length of channels may be sufficient to pass through support plate and the base of reservoir where channel is exposed to an atmosphere containing for example oxygen.

Referring now to a schematic side view of assembler device comprising a cure inhibitor source in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

Channels allow continuous or periodic diffusion of cure inhibitor into cure inhibiting layer . As part is produced discrete amounts of cure inhibitor are utilized. The cure inhibitor utilization rate may be determined by observing the length of time assembler device is in operation before portions of part being produced or cure inhibiting layer are damaged by increased separation forces. Damage occurs in forms including but not limited to delamination of cure inhibiting layer from support plate deformation of new layer being created and increased torque placed on part and or build table . The cure inhibitor utilization rate may also be calculated by determining how many moles of cure inhibitor are required to minimize the separation force per unit volume of part produced. In still other aspects an estimate of the cure inhibitor utilization rate is made based on observation of assembler device in operation.

The cure inhibitor utilization rate may be input into a computing device which controls the rate the cure inhibitor is provided to cure inhibiting layer . The computing device may be attached to the assembler device and is accessible by the user. This computing device may also electronically control other portions of assembler device such as actuator light source actuator cure inhibitor source or a regulator .

The cure inhibitor may be introduced into cure inhibiting layer via at least one pathway connected on an end portion to at least one inhibitor channel . Pathway is connected to a regulator and cure inhibitor source at another end portion. Cure inhibitor source may be an oxygen source such as a reservoir containing compressed oxygen compressed air. Cure inhibitor source may also be a reservoir containing some other gaseous cure inhibitor. Cure inhibitor source may also be an air compressor which takes in the surrounding atmosphere and outputs that atmosphere at a desired pressure into pathway . Cure inhibitor source may also be a baffle configured to control or prevent the flow of the surrounding atmosphere into pathway . A computing device may control the rate at which cure inhibitor source provides cure inhibitor to cure inhibiting layer . This rate may be a function of the cure inhibitor utilization rate. The user may also control the rate at which cure inhibitor source provides cure inhibitor to cure inhibiting layer via electronic control physical control or some other means that will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein.

Referring now to a schematic side view of assembler device comprising a resin reserve in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

A constant level of resin in reservoir may be maintained. Among other reasons a constant level of resin ensures that part is not completely removed from resin during any translations made while constructing part . Resin may be maintained at a level corresponding with fill line shown as a dashed line in . Resin depth may be a multiple of layer thickness.

The level of resin may be maintained by filling reservoir with more resin as part is created. Additional resin may be stored in a resin reserve . Resin reserve is a container configured to hold additional resin which may refill reservoir as desired by the user. Resin reserve may contain sufficient resin to produce one additional part . In an alternative aspect resin reserve contains sufficient resin to produce multiple additional parts.

Resin reserve may be connected to reservoir via a delivery tube which interfaces with resin reserve at the bottom of resin reserve . Delivery tube is connected to reservoir at a point below the fill line of resin . To refill reservoir resin flows from resin reserve through delivery tube into reservoir .

A return tube connects the resin reserve to the reservoir . Return tube is connected to resin reserve at the bottom of resin reserve . Return tube is connected to reservoir at fill line of reservoir such that if the level of resin in the reserve falls below fill line atmosphere enters return tube and allows resin to flow from resin reserve into reservoir via delivery tube until reservoir is filled at or above fill line . Resin reserve may also fill reservoir via an electronically controlled pump.

Referring now to a schematic side view of assembler device comprising a sweeper in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

In an aspect comprising reservoir a layer of resin is present above cure inhibiting layer . Cure inhibiting layer is not exposed to the surrounding atmosphere because on the top surface of cure inhibiting layer where resin contacts cure inhibiting layer resin prevents the atmosphere surrounding assembler device from contacting cure inhibiting layer . Over time the cure inhibiting layer loses effectiveness because cure inhibitors such as oxygen present in the cure inhibiting layer are absorbed by resin . Reduction in cure inhibiting layer efficiency results in an increase in the bonding force between image plate and part which may lead to damage of cure inhibiting layer and damage to part due to distortion or damage of newly formed layers .

Exposing cure inhibiting layer to the atmosphere or a source of cure inhibitor allows cure inhibitor to permeate cure inhibiting layer replenishing cure inhibiting layer with the cure inhibitor thereby maintaining the ability of cure inhibiting layer to inhibit the curing of resin in a microscopic layer on surface of cure inhibiting layer . This allows part to be easily removed from image plate over a substantial number of cure cycles.

Sweeper is configured to expose a portion of cure inhibiting layer to a cure inhibitor source such as the surrounding atmosphere so that cure inhibiting layer may be replenished with cure inhibitor. Sweeper may be configured to expose a portion of cure inhibiting layer each cure cycle by restricting or preventing the flow of resin over a portion of cure inhibiting layer .

In an aspect sweeper may be configured as a moveable wall. Reservoir moves relative to sweeper creating an area of variable volume within reservoir as shown in . Sweeper comprises a first sweeper portion and a second sweeper portion . Sweeper is positioned across a side of reservoir and cure inhibiting layer . Sweeper may be horizontally fixed relative to build table . In such a configuration sweeper and build table maintain their relative horizontal positions while reservoir slides beneath sweeper and build table .

First sweeper portion is proximally located to cure inhibiting layer . First sweeper portion may be in physical contact with cure inhibiting layer forming a resin tight seal. First sweeper portion may further comprise a rubber bumper squeegee or other semi flexible member configured to impede or prevent the flow of resin at the interface of sweeper and cure inhibiting layer . First sweeper portion may further be configured to wipe away move or remove debris from cure inhibiting layer when the debris comes into contact with sweeper . Debris may be cured resin dirt and other contaminants.

Second sweeper portion may be a solid member configured to impede the flow of resin . Second sweeper portion may be a solid panel which completely constrains resin within a space defined by sweeper reservoir base and reservoir walls. Second sweeper portion may be a panel comprising a cavity which allows liquid resin to flow from one side of sweeper to the other side. This configuration stirs resin as it passes over through sweeper which facilitates maintaining the mixture of resin especially desirable where resin comprising pigments or metal powders are utilized.

Sweeper may be configured to restrict resin contained in reservoir to a volume having a smaller footprint than the footprint of reservoir . In another aspect assembler device is configured such that sweeper in combination with reservoir may restrict resin to an area where resin does not contact high elevation area .

Cure inhibiting layer may be exposed to a source of cure inhibitor for an amount of time which is effective for maintaining a concentration of cure inhibitor in the cure inhibiting layer sufficient to maintain the ability of cure inhibiting layer to inhibit the curing of resin in a microscopic layer on surface . In an aspect assembly device causes cure inhibiting layer to be exposed to a source of cure inhibitor by pausing for one half second to five seconds when part is adjacent to a portion of low elevation area . High elevation area comprises cure inhibiting layer . Sweeper is configured to prevent the flow of resin on to high elevation area such that cure inhibiting layer may be replenished with cure inhibitors present through for example diffusion.

In another aspect cure inhibiting layer is replenished with cure inhibitor at a constant rate via channel . Multiple means for providing cure inhibitor to cure inhibiting layer may be utilized in assembler device . For example assembler device may comprise sweeper and channel .

Referring now to a schematic side view of assembler device comprising sweeper wherein the position of build table and image plate have moved relative to one another in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

When reservoir slides relative to sweeper and build table resin is constrained by sweeper to low elevation area as indicated by resin level shown as a dashed line in . This exposes a portion of cure inhibiting layer to the surrounding atmosphere.

Where as in only a portion of reservoir base comprises image plate assembler device may be configured such that sweeper in combination with reservoir may restrict resin to an area where resin does not contact image plate . Sweeper is configured to expose a portion of cure inhibitor later to the surrounding atmosphere by preventing the flow of resin on to the portion of cure inhibiting layer when that portion of cure inhibiting layer has shifted to a position outside of the resin tight volume defined in part by sweeper .

Referring now to a perspective view of assembler device in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

Photopolymer resin used in photolithographic assembler devices may harden and cure when exposed to specific wavelengths of light. Light capable of curing resin originates from desirable sources such as projector and undesirable sources such as the surrounding environment.

Assembler device may comprise one or more windows shown as windows in for clarity made of semi transparent materials which enclose portions of assembler device in order to avoid exposing resin contained therein to visible near UV and UV light radiation which cures resin . Red windows may be chosen which prevent the transmission of higher frequency visible light radiation.

In some aspects of the present disclosure it is desirable for assembler device to be of a compact stand alone form factor. Thus feet are provided which allow assembler device to rest on a substantially uniform flat surface. In some aspects feet are adjustable having rubber shims attached to the bottom such that the feet can be adjusted to provide a level stable base for assembler device . Feet may be removable.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating an exemplary computer system useful for implementing an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

Computing functionality may cause actuator to lift or lower build plate a distance greater than the thickness t of a new layer being formed.

Computing functionality may include volatile and non volatile memory such as RAM and ROM as well as one or more processing devices e.g. one or more central processing units CPUs one or more graphical processing units GPUs and the like . Computing functionality also optionally includes various media devices such as a hard disk module an optical disk module and so forth. Computing functionality may perform various operations identified above when the processing device s executes instructions that are maintained by memory e.g. RAM ROM .

More generally instructions and other information may be stored on any computer readable medium including but not limited to static memory storage devices magnetic storage devices and optical storage devices. The term computer readable medium also encompasses plural storage devices. In all cases computer readable medium represents some form of physical and tangible entity. By way of example and not limitation computer readable medium may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable medium.

Computing functionality also includes an input output module for receiving various inputs via input modules and for providing various outputs via one or more output modules . One particular output mechanism may include a presentation module and an associated GUI . Computing functionality may also include one or more network interfaces for exchanging data with other devices via one or more communication conduits . One or more communication buses communicatively couple the above described components together.

Communication conduit s may be implemented in any manner e.g. by a local area network a wide area network e.g. the Internet and the like or any combination thereof . Communication conduit s can include any combination of hardwired links wireless links routers gateway functionality name servers etc. governed by any protocol or combination of protocols.

Alternatively or in addition any of the functions described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Application specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

The terms module and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or combinations thereof. In the case of a software implementation the module or component represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor. The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices as described with reference to The features of the present disclosure described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques can be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors e.g. desktop laptop notebook tablet computer personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart telephone gaming console and the like .

In some aspects assembler device is controlled by a computing functionality containing a software program. Computing functionality is connected to at least a portion of assembler device for communication therewith and capable of controlling portions of assembler device in order to facilitate production of one or more parts .

The software program may comprise an assembler device application programming interface API a printer driver and a translator. The assembler device may be a 3D printer API. The 3D printer API allows the computer to command the mechanical operation of the functions of assembler device . The print driver controls assembler device and outputs cross sectional images to the projector which creates part .

Printer driver may control the actuator and actuator in order to alter the relative positions of build table and image plate . Printer driver may also control the level of resin in reservoir and the cure inhibitor flow rate where assembler device further comprises such portions.

The translator converts a 3D part file such as a .stl file and slices it up into the desired image layers. The translator module may identify areas of an image layer which need additional physical support. In an aspect the translator draws any required supporting structures needed to facilitate successful creation of the part .

Computing functionality may further comprise one or more fail safe modules which automatically power off actuator or actuator the software controlling assembler device attempts to drive a portion of assembler device past its operational limits. For example if printer commands the actuator to move the build table to a position which would damage part or the build table itself the fail safe module s would prevent that movement.

A manufacturer or supplier of assembler device may make a 3D printer API available such that users i.e. developers may develop software that can be executed on a host computer computing device and communicate with assembler device to control the printing process.

Now referring to a block diagram of a process for operating assembler device in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure is shown.

Part production process may be partially or completely facilitated by computing functionality via modules designed by a manufacturer or supplier of assembler device via modules designed by the user or some combination thereof.

In step computing functionality directs light source to project an image onto image area of image plate corresponding with the cross section of new layer to be cured and added to part being constructed. Upon completion of step step begins.

Image plate is configured to slide between a position where part is over high elevation area to a position where part is over low elevation area . In step image plate is translated horizontally from a first position over high elevation area until part is in a position Where part is at a second position over low elevation area .

Upon completion of step step is executed. Image plate is held in the second position for example a position where part is over low elevation area for a specified amount of time. The amount of time may be approximately 1 second chosen to allow cure inhibiting layer to reoxygenate via exposure to the atmosphere by sweeper . The wait time may be determined by the operational limitations of assembler device or by the curing properties of the material used to construct part .

Upon completion of step step is executed. Build table is raised to a new height corresponding with the thickness of the next layer to be formed. Actuator may be used to accomplish this step.

Upon completion of step step is executed. Image plate is translated horizontally from a second position over low elevation area until part is in a first position where part is over high elevation area .

Upon completion of step step is executed where process ends. Process may be repeated until part is fully assembled.

While various aspects of the present disclosure have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary aspects.

In addition it should be understood that the figures in the attachments which highlight the structure methodology functionality and advantages of the present disclosure are presented for example purposes only. The present disclosure is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be implemented in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

