---

title: Mobile device session analyzer
abstract: Techniques described herein relate to determining performance conditions for mobile device execution sessions based on analyses of session context data and performance data associated with content resource execution sessions. Mobile devices may receive and execute content resources via input/output subsystems, during which feedback data by the mobile devices. Mobile devices also may be configured to detect and/or determine context data associated with specific content resource execution sessions, using device sensors and other techniques. Session analyzers may receive and analyze content resource execution session data received from one or more mobile devices, and determine user performance conditions for content resource execution sessions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614734&OS=09614734&RS=09614734
owner: PEARSON EDUCATION, INC.
number: 09614734
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150910
---
Effective performance and interactions during execution sessions on mobile devices is often challenging. Different mobile devices may have unique sets of device capabilities and characteristics. Additionally multiple mobile devices may be related and used to perform similar tasks and execute related sets of content resources. Certain mobile device may be personal and individual devices while others may be shared devices. Moreover the computing conditions and physical environments in which mobile devices are used to perform tasks and execute resources may be constantly changing. For example mobile devices may be used at different times and places and in different network conditions physical environments and the like which may result in varying and unpredictable performance during different content resource execution sessions.

Various techniques e.g. systems methods computer program products tangibly embodied in a non transitory machine readable storage medium etc. are described herein for determining performance conditions for mobile device execution sessions based on analyses of session context data and performance data associated with content resource execution sessions. Mobile devices may receive and execute content resources via input output subsystems during which feedback data by the mobile devices. Mobile devices also may be configured to detect and or determine context data associated with specific content resource execution sessions using device sensors and other techniques. Session analyzers may receive and analyze content resource execution session data received from one or more mobile devices and determine user performance conditions for content resource execution sessions.

Additional techniques discussed herein relate to monitoring one or more mobile devices after set of performance conditions have been determined for the mobile devices and or associated users. Current context data for each mobile device may be tracked and monitored in order to provide notifications and resource suggestions based on performance conditions associated with users mobile devices and or content resource types. Further techniques described herein relate to determining performance conditions and monitoring mobile device context data based on groups of related content resource execution sessions.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various compo of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides illustrative embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the illustrative embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It is understood that various changes can be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.

With reference now to a block diagram is shown illustrating various components of a content distribution network CDN which implements and supports certain embodiments and features described herein. Content distribution network may include one or more content management servers . As discussed below in more detail content management servers may be any desired type of server including for example a rack server a tower server a miniature server a blade server a mini rack server a mobile server an ultra dense server a super server or the like and may include various hardware components for example a motherboard a processing units memory systems hard drives network interfaces power supplies etc. Content management server may include one or more server farms clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination or computer servers. Content management server may act according to stored instructions located in a memory subsystem of the server and may run an operating system including any commercially available server operating system and or any other operating systems discussed herein.

The content distribution network may include one or more data store servers such as database servers and file based storage systems. Data stores may comprise stored data relevant to the functions of the content distribution network . Illustrative examples of data stores that may be maintained in certain embodiments of the content distribution network are described below in reference to . In some embodiments multiple data stores may reside on a single server either using the same storage components of server or using different physical storage components to assure data security and integrity between data stores. In other embodiments each data store may have a separate dedicated data store server .

Content distribution network also may include one or more user devices and or supervisor devices . User devices and supervisor devices may display content received via the content distribution network and may support various types of user interactions with the content. User devices and supervisor devices may include mobile devices such as smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants and wearable computing devices. Such mobile devices may run a variety of mobile operating systems and may be enabled for Internet e mail short message service SMS Bluetooth mobile radio frequency identification M RFID and or other communication protocols. Other user devices and supervisor devices may be general purpose personal computers or special purpose computing devices including by way of example personal computers laptop computers workstation computers projection devices and interactive room display systems. Additionally user devices and supervisor devices may be any other electronic devices such as thin client computers Internet enabled gaming systems business or home appliances and or personal messaging devices capable of communicating over network s .

In different contexts of content distribution networks user devices and supervisor devices may correspond to different types of specialized devices for example student devices and teacher devices in an educational network employee devices and presentation devices in a company network different gaming devices in a gaming network etc. In some embodiments user devices and supervisor devices may operate in the same physical location such as a classroom or conference room. In such cases the devices may contain components that support direct communications with other nearby devices such as a wireless transceivers and wireless communications interfaces Ethernet sockets or other Local Area Network LAN interfaces etc. In other implementations the user devices and supervisor devices need not be used at the same location but may be used in remote geographic locations in which each user device and supervisor device may use security features and or specialized hardware e.g. hardware accelerated SSL and HTTPS WS Security firewalls etc. to communicate with the content management server and or other remotely located user devices . Additionally different user devices and supervisor devices may be assigned different designated roles such as presenter devices teacher devices administrator devices or the like and in such cases the different devices may be provided with additional hardware and or software components to provide content and support user capabilities not available to the other devices.

The content distribution network also may include a privacy server that maintains private user information at the privacy server while using applications or services hosted on other servers. For example the privacy server may be used to maintain private data of a user within one jurisdiction even though the user is accessing an application hosted on a server e.g. the content management server located outside the jurisdiction. In such cases the privacy server may intercept communications between a user device or supervisor device and other devices that include private user information. The privacy server may create a token or identifier that does not disclose the private information and may use the token or identifier when communicating with the other servers and systems instead of using the user s private information.

As illustrated in the content management server may be in communication with one or more additional servers such as a content server a user data server and or an administrator server . Each of these servers may include some or all of the same physical and logical components as the content management server s and in some cases the hardware and software components of these servers may be incorporated into the content management server s rather than being implemented as separate computer servers.

Content server may include hardware and software components to generate store and maintain the content resources for distribution to user devices and other devices in the network . For example in content distribution networks used for professional training and educational purposes content server may include data stores of training materials presentations interactive programs and simulations course models course outlines and various training interfaces that correspond to different materials and or different types of user devices . In content distribution networks used for media distribution interactive gaming and the like a content server may include media content files such as music movies television programming games and advertisements.

User data server may include hardware and software components that store and process data for multiple users relating to each user s activities and usage of the content distribution network . For example the content management server may record and track each user s system usage including their user device content resources accessed and interactions with other user devices . This data may be stored and processed by the user data server to support user tracking and analysis features. For instance in the professional training and educational contexts the user data server may store and analyze each user s training materials viewed presentations attended courses completed interactions evaluation results and the like. The user data server may also include a repository for user generated material such as evaluations and tests completed by users and documents and assignments prepared by users. In the context of media distribution and interactive gaming the user data server may store and process resource access data for multiple users e.g. content titles accessed access times data usage amounts gaming histories user devices and device types etc. .

Administrator server may include hardware and software components to initiate various administrative functions at the content management server and other components within the content distribution network . For example the administrator server may monitor device status and performance for the various servers data stores and or user devices in the content distribution network . When necessary the administrator server may add or remove devices from the network and perform device maintenance such as providing software updates to the devices in the network . Various administrative tools on the administrator server may allow authorized users to set user access permissions to various content resources monitor resource usage by users and devices and perform analyses and generate reports on specific network users and or devices e.g. resource usage tracking reports training evaluations etc. .

The content distribution network may include one or more communication networks . Although only a single network is identified in the content distribution network may include any number of different communication networks between any of the computer servers and devices shown in and or other devices described herein. Communication networks may enable communication between the various computing devices servers and other components of the content distribution network . As discussed below various implementations of content distribution networks may employ different types of networks for example computer networks telecommunications networks wireless networks and or any combination of these and or other networks.

With reference to an illustrative distributed computing environment is shown including a computer server four client computing devices and other components that may implement certain embodiments and features described herein. In some embodiments the server may correspond to the content management server discussed above in and the client computing devices may correspond to the user devices . However the computing environment illustrated in may correspond to any other combination of devices and servers configured to implement a client server model or other distributed computing architecture.

Client devices may be configured to receive and execute client applications over one or more networks . Such client applications may be web browser based applications and or standalone software applications such as mobile device applications. Server may be communicatively coupled with the client devices via one or more communication networks . Client devices may receive client applications from server or from other application providers e.g. public or private application stores . Server may be configured to run one or more server software applications or services for example web based or cloud based services to support content distribution and interaction with client devices . Users operating client devices may in turn utilize one or more client applications e.g. virtual client applications to interact with server to utilize the services provided by these components.

Various different subsystems and or components may be implemented on server . Users operating the client devices may initiate one or more client applications to use services provided by these subsystems and components. The subsystems and components within the server and client devices may be implemented in hardware firmware software or combinations thereof. Various different system configurations are possible in different distributed computing systems and content distribution networks . The embodiment shown in is thus one example of a distributed computing system and is not intended to be limiting.

Although exemplary computing environment is shown with four client computing devices any number of client computing devices may be supported. Other devices such as specialized sensor devices etc. may interact with client devices and or server .

As shown in various security and integration components may be used to send and manage communications between the server and user devices over one or more communication networks . The security and integration components may include separate servers such as web servers and or authentication servers and or specialized networking components such as firewalls routers gateways load balancers and the like. In some cases the security and integration components may correspond to a set of dedicated hardware and or software operating at the same physical location and under the control of same entities as server . For example components may include one or more dedicated web servers and network hardware in a datacenter or a cloud infrastructure. In other examples the security and integration components may correspond to separate hardware and software components which may be operated at a separate physical location and or by a separate entity.

Security and integration components may implement various security features for data transmission and storage such as authenticating users and restricting access to unknown or unauthorized users. In various implementations security and integration components may provide for example a file based integration scheme or a service based integration scheme for transmitting data between the various devices in the content distribution network . Security and integration components also may use secure data transmission protocols and or encryption for data transfers for example File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure File Transfer Protocol SFTP and or Pretty Good Privacy PGP encryption.

In some embodiments one or more web services may be implemented within the security and integration components and or elsewhere within the content distribution network . Such web services including cross domain and or cross platform web services may be developed for enterprise use in accordance with various web service standards such as RESTful web services i.e. services based on the Representation State Transfer REST architectural style and constraints and or web services designed in accordance with the Web Service Interoperability WS I guidelines. Some web services may use the Secure Sockets Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS protocol to provide secure connections between the server and user devices . SSL or TLS may use HTTP or HTTPS to provide authentication and confidentiality. In other examples web services may be implemented using REST over HTTPS with the OAuth open standard for authentication or using the WS Security standard which provides for secure SOAP messages using XML encryption. In other examples the security and integration components may include specialized hardware for providing secure web services. For example security and integration components may include secure network appliances having built in features such as hardware accelerated SSL and HTTPS WS Security and firewalls. Such specialized hardware may be installed and configured in front of any web servers so that any external devices may communicate directly with the specialized hardware.

Communication network s may be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet protocol SNA systems network architecture IPX Internet packet exchange Secure Sockets Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS protocols Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP and Secure Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTPS Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC and the like. Merely by way of example network s may be local area networks LAN such as one based on Ethernet Token Ring and or the like. Network s also may be wide area networks such as the Internet. Networks may include telecommunication networks such as a public switched telephone networks PSTNs or virtual networks such as an intranet or an extranet. Infrared and wireless networks e.g. using the Institute of Electrical and Electronics IEEE 802.11 protocol suite or other wireless protocols also may be included in networks .

Computing environment also may include one or more data stores and or back end servers . In certain examples the data stores may correspond to data store server s discussed above in and back end servers may correspond to the various back end servers . Data stores and servers may reside in the same datacenter or may operate at a remote location from server . In some cases one or more data stores may reside on a non transitory storage medium within the server . Other data stores and back end servers may be remote from server and configured to communicate with server via one or more networks . In certain embodiments data stores and back end servers may reside in a storage area network SAN or may use storage as a service STaaS architectural model.

With reference to an illustrative set of data stores and or data store servers is shown corresponding to the data store servers of the content distribution network discussed above in . One or more individual data stores may reside in storage on a single computer server or a single server farm or cluster under the control of a single entity or may reside on separate servers operated by different entities and or at remote locations. In some embodiments data stores may be accessed by the content management server and or other devices and servers within the network e.g. user devices supervisor devices administrator servers etc. . Access to one or more of the data stores may be limited or denied based on the processes user credentials and or devices attempting to interact with the data store.

The paragraphs below describe examples of specific data stores that may be implemented within some embodiments of a content distribution network . It should be understood that the below descriptions of data stores including their functionality and types of data stored therein are illustrative and non limiting. Data stores server architecture design and the execution of specific data stores may depend on the context size and functional requirements of a content distribution network . For example in content distribution systems used for professional training and educational purposes separate databases or file based storage systems may be implemented in data store server s to store trainee and or student data trainer and or professor data training module data and content descriptions training results evaluation data and the like. In contrast in content distribution systems used for media distribution from content providers to subscribers separate data stores may be implemented in data stores server s to store listings of available content titles and descriptions content title usage statistics subscriber profiles account data payment data network usage statistics etc.

A user profile data store may include information relating to the end users within the content distribution network . This information may include user characteristics such as the user names access credentials e.g. logins and passwords user preferences and information relating to any previous user interactions within the content distribution network e.g. requested content posted content content modules completed training scores or evaluations other associated users etc. .

An accounts data store may generate and store account data for different users in various roles within the content distribution network . For example accounts may be created in an accounts data store for individual end users supervisors administrator users and entities such as companies or educational institutions. Account data may include account types current account status account characteristics and any parameters limits restrictions associated with the accounts.

A content library data store may include information describing the individual content items or content resources available via the content distribution network . In some embodiments the library data store may include metadata properties and other characteristics associated with the content resources stored in the content server . Such data may identify one or more aspects or content attributes of the associated content resources for example subject matter access level or skill level of the content resources license attributes of the content resources e.g. any limitations and or restrictions on the licensable use and or distribution of the content resource price attributes of the content resources e.g. a price and or price structure for determining a payment amount for use or distribution of the content resource rating attributes for the content resources e.g. data indicating the evaluation or effectiveness of the content resource and the like. In some embodiments the library data store may be configured to allow updating of content metadata or properties and to allow the addition and or removal of information relating to the content resources. For example content relationships may be implemented as graph structures which may be stored in the library data store or in an additional store for use by selection algorithms along with the other metadata.

A pricing data store may include pricing information and or pricing structures for determining payment amounts for providing access to the content distribution network and or the individual content resources within the network . In some cases pricing may be determined based on a user s access to the content distribution network for example a time based subscription fee or pricing based on network usage and. In other cases pricing may be tied to specific content resources. Certain content resources may have associated pricing information whereas other pricing determinations may be based on the resources accessed the profiles and or accounts of the user and the desired level of access e.g. duration of access network speed etc. . Additionally the pricing data store may include information relating to compilation pricing for groups of content resources such as group prices and or price structures for groupings of resources.

A license data store may include information relating to licenses and or licensing of the content resources within the content distribution network . For example the license data store may identify licenses and licensing terms for individual content resources and or compilations of content resources in the content server the rights holders for the content resources and or common or large scale right holder information such as contact information for rights holders of content not included in the content server .

A content access data store may include access rights and security information for the content distribution network and specific content resources. For example the content access data store may include login information e.g. user identifiers logins passwords etc. that can be verified during user login attempts to the network . The content access data store also may be used to store assigned user roles and or user levels of access. For example a user s access level may correspond to the sets of content resources and or the client or server applications that the user is permitted to access. Certain users may be permitted or denied access to certain applications and resources based on their subscription level training program course grade level etc. Certain users may have supervisory access over one or more end users allowing the supervisor to access all or portions of the end user s content activities evaluations etc. Additionally certain users may have administrative access over some users and or some applications in the content management network allowing such users to add and remove user accounts modify user access permissions perform maintenance updates on software and servers etc.

A source data store may include information relating to the source of the content resources available via the content distribution network. For example a source data store may identify the authors and originating devices of content resources previous pieces of data and or groups of data originating from the same authors or originating devices and the like.

An evaluation data store may include information used to direct the evaluation of users and content resources in the content management network . In some embodiments the evaluation data store may contain for example the analysis criteria and the analysis guidelines for evaluating users e.g. trainees students gaming users media content consumers etc. and or for evaluating the content resources in the network . The evaluation data store also may include information relating to evaluation processing tasks for example the identification of users and user devices that have received certain content resources or accessed certain applications the status of evaluations or evaluation histories for content resources users or applications and the like. Evaluation criteria may be stored in the evaluation data store including data and or instructions in the form of one or several electronic rubrics or scoring guides for use in the evaluation of the content users or applications. The evaluation data store also may include past evaluations and or evaluation analyses for users content and applications including relative rankings characterizations explanations and the like.

In addition to the illustrative data stores described above data store server s e.g. database servers file based storage servers etc. may include one or more external data aggregators . External data aggregators may include third party data sources accessible to the content management network but not maintained by the content management network . External data aggregators may include any electronic information source relating to the users content resources or applications of the content distribution network . For example external data aggregators may be third party data stores containing demographic data education related data consumer sales data health related data and the like. Illustrative external data aggregators may include for example social networking web servers public records data stores learning management systems educational institution servers business servers consumer sales data stores medical record data stores etc. Data retrieved from various external data aggregators may be used to verify and update user account information suggest user content and perform user and content evaluations.

With reference now to a block diagram is shown illustrating an embodiment of one or more content management servers within a content distribution network . As discussed above content management server s may include various server hardware and software components that manage the content resources within the content distribution network and provide interactive and adaptive content to users on various user devices . For example content management server s may provide instructions to and receive information from the other devices within the content distribution network in order to manage and transmit content resources user data and server or client applications executing within the network .

A content management server may include a content customization system . The content customization system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. a content customization server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . In some embodiments the content customization system may adjust the selection and adaptive capabilities of content resources to match the needs and desires of the users receiving the content. For example the content customization system may query various data stores and servers to retrieve user information such as user preferences and characteristics e.g. from a user profile data store user access restrictions to content recourses e.g. from a content access data store previous user results and content evaluations e.g. from an evaluation data store and the like. Based on the retrieved information from data stores and other data sources the content customization system may modify content resources for individual users.

A content management server also may include a user management system . The user management system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. a user management server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . In some embodiments the user management system may monitor the progress of users through various types of content resources and groups such as media compilations courses or curriculums in training or educational contexts interactive gaming environments and the like. For example the user management system may query one or more databases and or data store servers to retrieve user data such as associated content compilations or programs content completion status user goals results and the like.

A content management server also may include an evaluation system . The evaluation system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. an evaluation server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . The evaluation system may be configured to receive and analyze information from user devices . For example various ratings of content resources submitted by users may be compiled and analyzed and then stored in a data store e.g. a content library data store and or evaluation data store associated with the content. In some embodiments the evaluation server may analyze the information to determine the effectiveness or appropriateness of content resources with for example a subject matter an age group a skill level or the like. In some embodiments the evaluation system may provide updates to the content customization system or the user management system with the attributes of one or more content resources or groups of resources within the network . The evaluation system also may receive and analyze user evaluation data from user devices supervisor devices and administrator servers etc. For instance evaluation system may receive aggregate and analyze user evaluation data for different types of users e.g. end users supervisors administrators etc. in different contexts e.g. media consumer ratings trainee or student comprehension levels teacher effectiveness levels gamer skill levels etc. .

A content management server also may include a content delivery system . The content delivery system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. a content delivery server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . The content delivery system may receive content resources from the content customization system and or from the user management system and provide the resources to user devices . The content delivery system may determine the appropriate presentation format for the content resources based on the user characteristics and preferences and or the device capabilities of user devices . If needed the content delivery system may convert the content resources to the appropriate presentation format and or compress the content before transmission. In some embodiments the content delivery system may also determine the appropriate transmission media and communication protocols for transmission of the content resources.

In some embodiments the content delivery system may include specialized security and integration hardware along with corresponding software components to implement the appropriate security features content transmission and storage to provide the supported network and client access models and to support the performance and scalability requirements of the network . The security and integration layer may include some or all of the security and integration components discussed above in and may control the transmission of content resources and other data as well as the receipt of requests and content interactions to and from the user devices supervisor devices administrative servers and other devices in the network .

With reference now to a block diagram of an illustrative computer system is shown. The system may correspond to any of the computing devices or servers of the content distribution network described above or any other computing devices described herein. In this example computer system includes processing units that communicate with a number of peripheral subsystems via a bus subsystem . These peripheral subsystems include for example a storage subsystem an I O subsystem and a communications subsystem .

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple buses. Bus subsystem may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Such architectures may include for example an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus which can be implemented as a Mezzanine bus manufactured to the IEEE P1386.1 standard.

Processing unit which may be implemented as one or more integrated circuits e.g. a conventional microprocessor or microcontroller controls the operation of computer system . One or more processors including single core and or multicore processors may be included in processing unit . As shown in the figure processing unit may be implemented as one or more independent processing units and or with single or multicore processors and processor caches included in each processing unit. In other embodiments processing unit may also be implemented as a quad core processing unit or larger multicore designs e.g. hexa core processors octo core processors ten core processors or greater.

Processing unit may execute a variety of software processes embodied in program code and may maintain multiple concurrently executing programs or processes. At any given time some or all of the program code to be executed can be resident in processor s and or in storage subsystem . In some embodiments computer system may include one or more specialized processors such as digital signal processors DSPs outboard processors graphics processors application specific processors and or the like.

I O subsystem may include device controllers for one or more user interface input devices and or user interface output devices . User interface input and output devices may be integral with the computer system e.g. integrated audio video systems and or touchscreen displays or may be separate peripheral devices which are attachable detachable from the computer system .

Input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse or trackball a touchpad or touch screen incorporated into a display a scroll wheel a click wheel a dial a button a switch a keypad audio input devices with voice command recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. Input devices may also include three dimensional 3D mice joysticks or pointing sticks gamepads and graphic tablets and audio visual devices such as speakers digital cameras digital camcorders portable media players webcams image scanners fingerprint scanners barcode reader 3D scanners 3D printers laser rangefinders and eye gaze tracking devices. Additional input devices may include for example motion sensing and or gesture recognition devices that enable users to control and interact with an input device through a natural user interface using gestures and spoken commands eye gesture recognition devices that detect eye activity from users and transform the eye gestures as input into an input device voice recognition sensing devices that enable users to interact with voice recognition systems through voice commands medical imaging input devices MIDI keyboards digital musical instruments and the like.

Output devices may include one or more display subsystems indicator lights or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. Display subsystems may include for example cathode ray tube CRT displays flat panel devices such as those using a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma display light emitting diode LED displays projection devices touch screens and the like. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from computer system to a user or other computer. For example output devices may include without limitation a variety of display devices that visually convey text graphics and audio video information such as monitors printers speakers headphones automotive navigation systems plotters voice output devices and modems.

Computer system may comprise one or more storage subsystems comprising hardware and software components used for storing data and program instructions such as system memory and computer readable storage media . The system memory and or computer readable storage media may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on processing units as well as data generated during the execution of these programs.

Depending on the configuration and type of computer system system memory may be stored in volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or in non volatile storage drives such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. The RAM may contain data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated and executed by processing units . In some implementations system memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM or dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some implementations a basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up may typically be stored in the non volatile storage drives . By way of example and not limitation system memory may include application programs such as client applications Web browsers mid tier applications server applications etc. program data and an operating system .

Storage subsystem also may provide one or more tangible computer readable storage media for storing the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of some embodiments. Software programs code modules instructions that when executed by a processor provide the functionality described herein may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules or instructions may be executed by processing units . Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present invention.

Storage subsystem may also include a computer readable storage media reader that can further be connected to computer readable storage media . Together and optionally in combination with system memory computer readable storage media may comprehensively represent remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information.

Computer readable storage media containing program code or portions of program code may include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information. This can include tangible computer readable storage media such as RAM ROM electronically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible computer readable media. This can also include nontangible computer readable media such as data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by computer system .

By way of example computer readable storage media may include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD and Blu Ray disk or other optical media. Computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to Zip drives flash memory cards universal serial bus USB flash drives secure digital SD cards DVD disks digital video tape and the like. Computer readable storage media may also include solid state drives SSD based on non volatile memory such as flash memory based SSDs enterprise flash drives solid state ROM and the like SSDs based on volatile memory such as solid state RAM dynamic RAM static RAM DRAM based SSDs magnetoresistive RAM MRAM SSDs and hybrid SSDs that use a combination of DRAM and flash memory based SSDs. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer system .

Communications subsystem may provide a communication interface from computer system and external computing devices via one or more communication networks including local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs e.g. the Internet and various wireless telecommunications networks. As illustrated in the communications subsystem may include for example one or more network interface controllers NICs such as Ethernet cards Asynchronous Transfer Mode NICs Token Ring NICs and the like as well as one or more wireless communications interfaces such as wireless network interface controllers WNICs wireless network adapters and the like. Additionally and or alternatively the communications subsystem may include one or more modems telephone satellite cable ISDN synchronous or asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL units FireWire interfaces USB interfaces and the like. Communications subsystem also may include radio frequency RF transceiver components for accessing wireless voice and or data networks e.g. using cellular telephone technology advanced data network technology such as 3G 4G or EDGE enhanced data rates for global evolution WiFi IEEE 802.11 family standards or other mobile communication technologies or any combination thereof global positioning system GPS receiver components and or other components.

The various physical components of the communications subsystem may be detachable components coupled to the computer system via a computer network a FireWire bus or the like and or may be physically integrated onto a motherboard of the computer system . Communications subsystem also may be implemented in whole or in part by software.

In some embodiments communications subsystem may also receive input communication in the form of structured and or unstructured data feeds event streams event updates and the like on behalf of one or more users who may use or access computer system . For example communications subsystem may be configured to receive data feeds in real time from users of social networks and or other communication services web feeds such as Rich Site Summary RSS feeds and or real time updates from one or more third party information sources e.g. data aggregators . Additionally communications subsystem may be configured to receive data in the form of continuous data streams which may include event streams of real time events and or event updates e.g. sensor data applications financial tickers network performance measuring tools clickstream analysis tools automobile traffic monitoring etc. . Communications subsystem may output such structured and or unstructured data feeds event streams event updates and the like to one or more data stores that may be in communication with one or more streaming data source computers coupled to computer system .

Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in the figure is intended only as a specific example. Many other configurations having more or fewer components than the system depicted in the figure are possible. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

With reference now to a block diagram is shown illustrating an example of a mobile device session analyzer system . As shown in this example a mobile device session analyzer system may include one or more mobile devices configured to communicate with a mobile device session analyzer . As discussed below mobile devices may be configured to receive and execute content resources via their respective input output I O subsystems . As used herein a content resource execution session may refer to a continuous time period during which one or more content resources are executed on a mobile device . During such content resource execution sessions a user of the mobile device may consume e.g. watch read play etc. the content resources and may provide feedback relating to the content resources via the I O subsystem . Mobile devices may be configured to receive such user feedback and other relevant performance data associated with content resource execution sessions. The user feedback data and other performance data associated with content resource execution sessions may be received and or determined before during or after the associated execution sessions. Mobile devices also may be configured to detect and or determine e.g. using device sensors and or CPU context data associated with specific content resource execution sessions. Such context data may include for example device location session time session length network data movement and noise data user biostatistics data data received from other mobile device applications and the like. Mobile devices may store the performance data and context data associated with content resource execution sessions for example in local data stores and also may transmit such data to one or more session analyzers . As discussed in more detail below session analyzers may include server components and or processing engines along with specialized data storage networking and hardware components configured to receive and analyze content resource execution session data from the mobile devices and to determine performance conditions for associated users.

In order to perform these features and other functionality described herein each of the components and sub components discussed in the example mobile device session analyzer system may correspond to a single computer server or a complex computing system including a combination of computing devices storage devices network components etc. Each of these components and their respective subcomponents may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. Certain mobile devices may communicate directly with the session analyzer while other mobile devices may communicate with the session analyzer indirectly via one or more intermediary network components e.g. routers gateways firewalls etc. or other devices e.g. content management servers content servers etc. . Although the physical network components have not been shown in this figure so as not to obscure the other elements depicted in the figure it should be understood that any of the network hardware components and network architecture designs may be implemented in various embodiments to support communication between the servers and devices in the system . Additionally different mobile devices may use different networks and networks types to communicate with the session analyzer including one or more telecommunications networks cable networks satellite networks cellular networks and other wireless networks and computer based IP networks and the like. Further certain components within mobile device session analyzer system may include special purpose hardware devices and or special purpose software such as those included in I O subsystems and sensor systems of the mobile devices as well as those within the processing engines and data stores of the session analyzer discussed below.

In some embodiments a mobile device session analyzer system may be integrated within or configured to operate in collaboration with one or more content distribution networks . For example system may be the same as or may operate within or in collaboration with any of the content distribution network CDNs described above. Thus specific examples of mobile device session analyzer systems may include without limitation educational and professional training systems and networks interactive gaming systems and networks media distribution systems and networks and enterprise application systems and networks websites and other Internet based systems and networks. In such cases the mobile device session analyzer may be implemented within one or more content servers content management servers and or data store servers and mobile devices may correspond to the user devices and described above in reference to CDN . Thus within system which may also be referred to as CDN mobile devices may request and receive content resources from the session analyzer execute the content resources using the hardware and software components of the user devices and then transmit various user interaction data back to the session analyzer . In other examples session analyzer may be implemented using one or more computer servers and other specialized hardware and software components separately from other CDN components such as content servers content management servers data store servers and the like. In these examples the session analyzer may be configured to communicate directly with mobile devices or indirectly through content management servers and or other components and communications networks of the CDN .

As discussed below system and other embodiments described herein may be used to execute content resources on user devices receive user inputs via user devices during content resources execution sessions determine performance measurements and or corresponding user contexts associated with content resources execution sessions and analyze content resources execution sessions in order to determine performance conditions for users within the system . Content resources may refer to any digital content such as media content e.g. music movies television programming audiobooks advertisements etc. gaming software professional training and eLearning resources e.g. courses texts lectures interactive modules tests and evaluations etc. as well as websites and other web based content. Various types of content resources may be transmitted to stored on and executed by mobile devices as files executable software services and the like. Users may consume e.g. view read listen to play etc. content resources via compatible mobile devices using the hardware and software resources on the mobile device . In some embodiments the content resources may include interactive resources such as interactive media games or professional training or eLearning content modules which may be designed to elicit user responses or feedback before during or after the execution of the content.

Mobile devices may include laptop computers smartphones tablet computers and other various types of mobile devices each of which may include some or all of the hardware software and networking components discussed above. Specifically a mobile device may be any computing device with sufficient memory for storing one or more content resources and sufficient processing and I O subcomponents for executing the content resources. As discussed above such content resources may include television programming music movies lectures or materials in a training course or eLearning system and or gaming content. Accordingly mobile devices may include the necessary hardware and software components to establish the network interfaces security and authentication capabilities and content caching capabilities to receive the content store the content and execute the content to provide to users in real time or at later time. Moreover in certain embodiments a single mobile device may have different context data e.g. location data network connectivity status data movement and noise data etc. during different content resource execution sessions. Laptop computers tablet computers smart phones smart watches wearable computing devices and vehicle based computing systems are all examples of mobile devices that may change locations and network connectivity status may detect movement and noise data and may have other changing context data during a single content resource execution session or between multiple different execution sessions.

In this example mobile devices each include an I O subsystem one or more device sensors a processing unit a data store and a network interface controller . As discussed above each mobile device may be configured to receive and execute content resources using their respective I O subsystems . Each I O subsystem may include hardware and software components to support a specific set of output capabilities e.g. LCD display screen characteristics screen size color display video driver speakers audio driver graphics processor and drivers etc. and a specific set of input capabilities e.g. keyboard mouse touchscreen voice control cameras facial recognition gesture recognition etc. . Different mobile devices may support different input and output capabilities within their I O subsystems and thus different types of content resources may be compatible or incompatible with certain mobile devices . For example certain content resources may require specific types of processors graphics components and network components in order to be optimally executed on a mobile device . Additionally or alternatively various content resources may require specific output capabilities e.g. LCD display screens minimum screen sizes color displays video audio graphics etc. and or specific input capabilities e.g. keyboard mouse touchscreen voice control gesture recognition etc. in order to be optimally executed on a mobile device . In some embodiments users may establish user specific preferences for executing specific types of content resources on specific types of user devices.

Each mobile device also may include one or more device sensors configured to detect context data associated with specific content resource execution sessions. Context data may include any data describing the current and or previous state of the mobile device the physical environment of the mobile device and or the user of the mobile device at the time of a content resource execution session. For example such context data may include the location of the mobile device and any detected movement of the mobile device during a content resource execution session including speed and overall distance travelled as well jiggling and vibrating movements indicative of walking jogging running or traveling in cars busses or trains etc. Accordingly sensors may include accelerometers speedometers compasses gyroscopes and or digital positioning systems such as Global Position Satellite GPS receivers in order to detect the position and movement of the device during an execution session. Additional context data may include the orientation of the mobile device ambient noise and or visual background data detected by the device and temperature and lighting data within the physical environment of the mobile device during an execution session. Thus sensors also may include thermometers barometers light sensors cameras microphones heat sensors motion sensors and the like in order to detect background noises such as traffic music conversations and other potential distractions e.g. other people nearby animals etc. as well as lighting and temperature factors that may affect performance during an execution session.

In some embodiments device sensors may include user health and activity sensors such as heartrate and blood pressure sensors sleep monitors and personal exercise fitness sensors that may detect and track the physical state and condition of the user before and during a content resource execution session. For instance a mobile device may be a personal and or wearable computing device configured to detect current health and activity data of a user and then transmit the biostatistics data for the user to the session analyzer and or other mobile devices within the system . As described below such biostatistics data like other session context variables may be stored and correlated with user performance measurements during content resource execution sessions to determine performance conditions for the user.

It should be understood that the above examples of specific sensors are illustrative and non limiting only and that any other mobile device sensor may be activated during content resource execution sessions to detect and record data that may be used to determine user performance conditions based on correlations between user performance measurements and sensor readings during execution sessions. Additionally as described below certain types of context data might not require specialized device sensors and thus such sensors may be optional in some embodiments. For example the context data associated with a content resource execution session may include session time session length and current device capabilities and status data such as processor status and availability memory usage and availability network availability etc. Additional context data may be received from other applications executing on the mobile device and or other related user devices . For instance if a user recently or concurrently activated and or interacted with certain software applications e.g. a mobile phone application music application gaming application web browser etc. during a content resource execution session then the user s interactions may be stored as context data which may correlate positively or negatively to the user s performance during the execution session. In addition to application launch states additional context information may be received from profiles built by applications granted security permissions as well as phone operating system level services from various mobile device and mobile software providers e.g. GOOGLE APPLE MICROSOFT etc. . Additionally mobile assistant services e.g. SIRI GOOGLE NOW CORTANA etc. also may serve as a potentially rich user profile context source.

After collecting various session data for one or more content resource execution sessions such as session context variable data and user performance and or user feedback data mobile devices may store the session data in a local data store or transmit the session data via a network interface to a mobile device session analyzer . As shown in mobile device session analyzer may receive data relating to multiple content resource execution sessions from multiple different mobile devices . The session analyzer may be configured to collect and store mobile device data and session data in one or more data stores and . The session analyzer may include one or more processing engines and configured to analyze the session data received from the mobile devices and determine performance conditions for users associated with the session data e.g. session analyzer engine as well as monitoring the context data of the mobile devices against the user s performance conditions to provide notifications that a user s current context data matches the performance conditions determined for the user e.g. notification engine . The session analyzer engine notification engine and data stores may be implemented as separate software and or storage components within a single computer server in some examples while in other examples may be implemented as separate computer servers systems having separate dedicated processing units storage devices and or network components.

Referring now to two tables are shown including example mobile device data and example content resource execution session data that may be illustrative of certain embodiments of the disclosure. In this example represents an example mobile device table that may be stored in a device data store of a mobile device session analyzer . Table may store a list of device capabilities and or characteristics for one or more mobile devices within a mobile device session analyzer system . For example table and or other tables within a data store may store any hardware and software components and capabilities of the mobile devices processors memory systems network capabilities drivers client applications etc. the input output devices and capabilities e.g. integrated and peripheral I O devices I O software I O capabilities etc. as well as any device sensors and sensor capabilities. In some examples session analyzer and or other components with a CDN may perform a registration process for new mobile devices during which a mobile device may provide its device components characteristics and or capabilities to be enrolled within the CDN and or session analyzer system . In other examples mobile devices may transmit device characteristics and capabilities data along with transmissions of content resource execution session data and the session analyzer may extract the data and update table with the received device data. In either case mobile devices and session analyzers may be respectively configured to transmit and receive store updates to the device data for a mobile device . For instance updated device data may be transmitted by a mobile device in response to hardware or software upgrades to the mobile device or the installation or removal of a peripheral I O device sensor etc. The session analyzer may receive device data updates from mobile devices and update device data table as needed.

Referring now to an example diagram is shown illustrating a sequence of data transmissions from mobile devices to a mobile device session analyzer where each data transmission may include data relating to a content resource execution session performed by a user on the mobile device . The architecture and hardware software components of system may be similar or identical to those in system discussed above. For example each mobile device may correspond to a mobile device and session analyzer may correspond to session analyzer . However illustrates specific examples of different mobile devices associated with a user and specific examples of transmitting execution session data from the mobile devices . In this case a user may use five different mobile devices at various different times to execute content resources a smartphone a smartwatch a tablet computer a vehicle based computer system and a laptop computer . As discussed above each mobile device may have different device characteristics and capabilities which may be stored by the individual devices and or within a data store of the session analyzer .

Referring now to a flow diagram is shown illustrating a process of determining one or more performance conditions associated with a user based on a user s content resource execution sessions. As described below the steps in this process may be performed by one or more components in the mobile device session analyzer systems described above such as a mobile device and or a session analyzer server . Prior to the steps of discussed below a mobile device may request and receive a set of content resources for example from a content management server or content server either of which may be implemented within a session analyzer server or other content repository. Content resources may include any digital content that may be executed on a user device such as media content e.g. music movies television programming audiobooks advertisements etc. gaming software professional training and eLearning resources e.g. online courses texts video lectures interactive software modules tests and evaluations etc. as well as websites and other web based content. Different types of content resources may be transmitted to stored on and executed by mobile devices as files executable software services and the like.

During the execution of one or more content resources by a user which may be referred to as a content resources execution session the user may consume e.g. view read listen to play etc. and interact with the content resources using the hardware and software components of their mobile devices e.g. I O subsystems . As discussed above different mobile devices may have different I O subsystems and other hardware software and network differences that support different types of resource consumption and resource interaction behaviors by users.

Additionally during a content resource execution session a mobile device may collect and store various data relating to the execution session. For example the mobile device may store basic session data such as user that requested and executed the resources the specific resources executed the session time etc. The mobile device also may detect and store various context data during execution sessions including the location of the mobile device and other physical environment data e.g. movement data noise data lighting data temperature data etc. user biostatistics data e.g. heartrate blood pressure sleep data diet data exercise fitness data etc. data received from other applications on the mobile device or other user devices e.g. phone application data music application data gaming data web browsing data etc. as well as other sensor data and any additional context data discussed herein.

The mobile device also may collect and store user feedback and other user interaction data during execution sessions. User feedback and user interaction data may be received via the I O subsystem of the mobile device executing the content or in other cases may be received via the input and output components of a different user device. For example in some embodiments content may be executed played on one device e.g. a television classroom or conference room projector audio system etc. and the user may interact with the content and provides feedback via a different device e.g. a smartphone personal tablet or laptop etc. . The user interaction data collected and stored by the mobile device during an execution session may include user selections of content resources e.g. starting stopping pausing skipping forward or back replaying sections etc. user responses to decision navigation points within interactive user content resources user behaviors while consuming content resources e.g. text inputs audio responses gestures facial expressions body language etc. scores of user interactions e.g. user scores of game levels eLearning modules tests or evaluations etc. and or the user s answers to explicit requests for feedback or evaluations of content resources. Such user interaction data may be referred to as clickstream processing in some cases. Additional user interaction data may include data metrics relating to a user s interaction with the content such as amount of time taken for the user to make a selection the number of selections attempts the user makes at a given navigation point and any aids tools or help that the user used when interacting with the content.

In some embodiments some or all of the data collected and stored by mobile devices during content resource execution sessions including session data context data and or user interaction data etc. may be transmitted by the mobile devices to the session analyzer during or after the execution sessions as shown in . In such embodiments the session analyzer may receive content resource execution session data from multiple devices and may perform the steps of on the aggregated data from multiple devices . In other embodiments the mobile devices may perform certain steps and analyses such as user performance measurements evaluations of context data to identify potential distractions and other relevant factors before transmitting data to the session analyzer . In still other examples each mobile device may perform each of the steps and individually without any communication with a session analyzer server . The mobile device session analyzer may be optional in such cases and mobile devices may communicate directly with each other or need not communicate at all and each mobile device may determine its own device specific performance conditions for the user.

In step data relating to one or more content resource execution sessions may be received for example by a mobile device session analyzer from one or more mobile devices . As discussed above the data received in step may include session data e.g. user identifier resource identifiers execution times etc. various types of context data e.g. location data physical environment data user biostatistics data data received from other applications etc. user interaction data received by the mobile device and any other data collected in connection with an execution of content resources on the mobile device .

In step one or more user performance measurements may be determined for the content resource execution session. In some embodiments a mobile device and or mobile device session analyzer may calculate user performance with respect to content resource execution sessions based on the user interaction data received in step . Several different types and techniques of performance measurements may be determined in different embodiments and or based on different types of content resources. In some cases a performance measurement may correspond to a user score or evaluation. For example gaming software professional training or eLearning software and other content resources may calculate user scores for game levels comprehension levels of eLearning modules automated online tests etc. User scores for interactive content resources may be calculated during the execution of the resources e.g. for an interactive game or after the completion of the execution session e.g. for a training eLearning module and in some cases the evaluation scoring process may be performed at a different mobile device then the device executing the resources.

Other types of performance measurement that may be determined in step may include express feedback from the user regarding the content resources such as user content ratings discussion posts content evaluations and the like. For instance certain CDNs and or specific content resources may solicit user ratings during or after execution of the content e.g. movie and television program ratings game reviews training eLearning module ratings course ratings instructor ratings etc. . Additional user feedback that may be collected for performance measurements may include the amount of time the user played executed the resources a record of the user decisions and other interactions during the execution of the resources and audio and or visual cues e.g. voice feedback facial expressions gestures body language etc. which may be collected and stored by the mobile device during the execution of the content resources.

Additionally in some embodiments the velocity and or the remediation rate of a user during one or more content resource execution sessions may be determined and used as a user performance measurement in step . Consumption velocity may refer to the speed at which a user consumes content resources and remediation rate may refer to the rate at which the user returns to previously consumed executed content during the execution session. To illustrate a first user who quickly consumes and completes one or more media resources game levels eLearning modules and the like may be assigned a high consumption velocity for the content resource execution session whereas a second user who proceeds slowly through the content resources e.g. frequently pausing repeating portions or sections multiple times selecting all possible choices or answers in an interactive resource etc. may be assigned a low consumption velocity. However if the first user or another user returns frequently to previously viewed executed resources then the first user may be assigned a high remediation rate whereas if the second user or another user rarely returns to a content resource after completing it then the second user may be assigned a low remediation rate. Consumption velocities and or remediation rates for a user during one or more execution sessions may be calculated based on the overall times required to complete resources the numbers of user decisions interactions during execution sessions and or numbers or rates of resource consumption etc.

In step one or more items of context data may be determined for the content resource execution session based on the data received in step . In some embodiments context data may be collected and determined by one or more mobile devices a mobile device session analyzer or a combination of mobile devices and session analyzers . The context data determined in step may include any of the various types of context data discussed above for example device location data device movement data data relating to the physical environment of the device e.g. noise lighting other distractions user biostatistics data data received from other software applications relating to mobile device or the user.

In some examples the mobile device may detect certain raw context data using device sensors such as location data movement data noise data image data user biostatistics data and the like and then transmit the raw context data to the session analyzer for analysis and classification. For instance the mobile device may collect and transmit raw time data corresponding to a content resource execution session e.g. start time stop time user interaction times and the session analyzer may use the raw time data to classify the execution session into one or more time ranges e.g. morning afternoon evening etc. . Similarly the mobile device may collect and transmit raw location data for an execution session and the session analyzer may analyze the raw execution data to determine a location or location e.g. home work school library vehicle coffee shop etc. . The session analyzer also may analyze location and or movement data e.g. accelerometer readings gyroscope readings etc. to determine user activity context data e.g. jogging driving bus train or air travel etc. . As another example the mobile device may collect and transmit raw noise data light data and or image data and the session analyzer may analyze the data to identify distraction context data e.g. ambient noise levels music background conversations high low lighting conditions etc. .

As illustrated in these examples the mobile device session analyzer may receive and analyze raw context data from mobile devices and then group and or classify the context data into ranges in order to characterize an execution session as having a particular context. In some cases the session analyzer may determine context data pairs each pair consisting of a session context variable e.g. time location movement pattern noise level distractions network connectivity etc. and a value or value range for the session context variable. Examples of values or value ranges for a time session context variable may include for instance 7 30 am 2 00 pm 4 30 pm weekday morning Sunday afternoon after school in summertime holiday weekend etc. Examples of values or value ranges for an ambient noise session context variable may include for instance silence quiet background music background conversation loud music traffic noise pet noise etc. Additionally illustrative examples of session context variables and corresponding values may be found in the first two columns of table in .

In some cases the session analyzer may determine certain types of context data for a mobile device without receiving any raw context data or other context information from the mobile device . For example the relevant context data for an execution session may include the capabilities and characteristics of the mobile device which may be stored in a device data store or other storage system and need not be transmitted by the mobile device . Additionally the session analyzer may use some context data received from a mobile device and then access one or more external servers to determine additional context data. For instance location data received from a mobile device may be used by the session analyzer to access external data sources to determine characteristics about the location e.g. public or private type of business etc. along with current weather conditions at the location traffic and road conditions at the location and the like so that the mobile device need not transmit this additional context data as well.

Also for a content resource execution session performed on one mobile device the session analyzer may receive or retrieve context data from other mobile devices associated with the same user. For example if a user executes a set of content resources on a first mobile device that does not include certain device sensors e.g. a GPS receiver movement sensors microphones cameras etc. then another mobile device located near the first device may be activated to detect store and transmit the relevant context data e.g. location data movement data audio data image video data etc. . In such cases the other mobile device may transmit the context data to the first mobile device or directly to the session analyzer . Additionally certain software applications currently running or recently ran on the user s other devices may provide relevant context data for an execution session on the first mobile device . For instance if a user is executing a set of content resources on a first mobile device while at the same time using the telephone application music player gaming applications and or web browser on the user s other devices then these devices may provide the relevant application information to the session analyzer as well. In some embodiments the session analyzer may be configured to request and or receive context data from any other user devices positioned near the mobile device during the same time window as an execution session.

As shown in steps may be repeated multiple times before the performance conditions for a user are calculated in step . In some cases a minimum threshold of content resource execution session data including both user performance data and session context data may be required before performance conditions can be calculated with statistical reliability. Additionally even after a set of performance conditions is initially calculated for a user in step the user may continue to perform content resource execution sessions on the user s mobile devices . In such cases steps may continue to be performed for any newly received execution session data and step may be performed again to update the user s performance conditions based on the newly received data.

In step one or more performance conditions may be determined for a user based on the content resource execution session data received and analyzed in steps . As used herein a performance condition for a user may refer to a statistical correlation between a value or range of values of a session context variable and a predicted effect on the user s performance during content resource execution sessions. For example a performance condition for a user may correlate a particular time of day to a higher or lower level of performance by the user during content resource execution sessions. Other example performance conditions may correlate specific locations or types of locations movement data background noise e.g. types of noise and or noise levels temperatures etc. to higher or lower levels of performance by the user during execution sessions.

Referring briefly to two example tables are shown including illustrative performance condition data. is an example performance condition table listing a set of illustrative performance conditions for a user. In this example each performance condition listed in table includes a session context variable a value or range of values for the session context variable and a corresponding predicted performance effect for the user. In this example the user s performance during content resource execution sessions may be calculated on a point scale from 0 to 100. The Performance column in table lists the predicted performance increase or decrease for the user when the context of an execution session is within the identified value range for the identified context variable. For instance when the user in this example executes content resources on weekday mornings the user s predicted performance will be 4.5 points higher than it otherwise would and when the user executes the content resources at home the user s predicted performance will be 8.6 points higher than it otherwise would. However when the user executes content resources in an environment with ambient noise ranging between 60 65 dB the user s predicted performance will be 6.7 points lower than it otherwise would and when the user slept only 4 6 hours the previous night the user s predicted performance will be 2.0 points lower than it otherwise would and so on. It should be understood that the examples of performance conditions shown in are illustrative only and non limiting and in various embodiments performance conditions may be based on any context data type factor and or value or range discussed herein.

Certain performance conditions determined in step may be applicable to individual users while other performance conditions may be applicable to groups of users such as a group of family members roommates coworkers or all users within a CDN . Additionally certain performance conditions determined in step may be applicable to specific CDNs and or specific types of resources within CDNs . For example as shown in performance condition table may include performance conditions determined based on an analysis of the content resource execution sessions of a single user User A within a single gaming application Game ABC of an online gaming CDN . As this example illustrates a single user may have different sets of performance conditions applicable to different types of CDN e.g. media distribution CDNs professional training eLearning CDNs gaming CDNs etc. and for different content resource types within one or more CDNs .

In order to determine the performance conditions in step the session analyzer or mobile device may execute statistical analysis techniques to identify a session context variable isolate the variable and the value or range of values for the variable and calculate the performance effect of the variable and value range. For example the session analyzer may use regression analyses to control for the performance effects of other session context variables thereby isolating a single variable and single value range for the variable while effectively holding constant the other possible variables affecting user performance during the execution sessions. After removing the potential performance effects caused by other session context variables via regression analysis the effect caused by one isolated variable may be calculated to determine the performance of that variable. Similar regressions may be used to isolate analyze the performance effect caused by all session context variables and performance effect calculations may be done for one or more different values groups or ranges for each variable. Such calculations also may take into account e.g. control for the difficulty of the content resources executed during a session based on performance data from other users executing the same resources and or the performance of the user executing other similar resources.

In step the performance conditions determined in step may be transmitted to one or more user devices. In some cases reports including a listing of performance conditions may be generated and transmitted to various client devices as well as instructor administrator devices associated with the users. Thus users system administrators instructors or teachers and or managers may receive performance condition data for users allowing users of each role to adjust future behaviors relating to the presentation or consumption of content resources. For example a distributor or presenter of online gaming content certain media resources or a professional training eLearning resources may require users to use mobile devices having specific device capabilities or to execute resources at certain times places etc. based on the determined performance conditions. Similarly users consuming resources may alter consumption patterns based on the determined performance conditions. Additionally as discussed below in reference to after a set of performance conditions have been determined for a user the current context of the user and the user s devices may be monitored in order to provide notifications and suggestions to the user for executing certain content resources at certain times. In some such embodiments pairs of session context variables and values ranges may be transmitted to individual mobile devices so that the mobile devices may periodically test the received pairs of session context variables and values ranges against the current context data of the user device and environment.

Referring now to a flow diagram is shown illustrating an example process of determining a set of content resources based on the current context data of a mobile device. As described below the steps in this process may be performed by one or more components in the mobile device session analyzer systems described above such as a session analyzer server and or mobile device . Steps may be performed after the determination of performance conditions for one or more users based on analyses of previous content resource execution sessions by the users. As noted above certain performance conditions may be user specific CDN specific resource type specific and or device specific while other performance conditions may apply to multiple users CDNs resource types and or devices. Accordingly the performance conditions discussed in steps may include both user CDN resource type and device specific performance conditions as well as performance conditions applying to multiple users CDNs resource types and devices.

In step the session analyzer may receive and or detect a current context data of a mobile device . For example the session analyzer may receive periodic transmissions of context data from a mobile device . The session analyzer may determine and or retrieve additional context data for the mobile device using other techniques described above such as retrieving context data from local data stores other mobile devices and or external data sources.

In step the session analyzer may compare the current context data of the mobile device to the previously determined performance conditions associated with the user and or the mobile device . For instance if a user has one or more performance conditions based on time location device movement and background noise then the session analyzer in step may compare the session context variable values for these performance conditions to the current context data of the user s mobile devices . In some cases the session analyzer may sum or otherwise combine the anticipated performance effect for multiple different performance conditions. Referring again to example table if the current context data received in step indicates that the current time is Tuesday at 10 00 am 4.5 the user is currently travelling in his her vehicle 1.5 and current using his her smartphone 4.3 then the session analyzer may sum these matching performance conditions to determine an anticipated net negative effect 4.5 1.5 4.3 1.3 on user performance for the current context. As another example if the current context data received in step indicates that the current time is Thursday at 8 00 am 4.5 the user is currently at home 8.6 and is current using a touchscreen device 7.3 then the session analyzer may sum these matching performance conditions to determine an anticipated net positive effect 4.5 8.6 7.3 20.4 on user performance for the current context.

In step if the session analyzer determines that overall current context data of the user and or mobile device corresponds to an anticipated net positive effect on user performance Yes then the session analyzer may determine a set of content resources step and transmit a notification to the user s mobile device step as discussed below. To the contrary if the session analyzer determines that overall current context data of the user and or mobile device corresponds to an anticipated net negative effect on user performance or to an insufficiently net positive effect that does not reach a minimum threshold No then the session analyzer would not transmit a notification to the user s mobile device but would return to step to await updated context data from the mobile device .

In step after determining that the current context data of the user and or mobile device corresponds to an anticipated net positive effect on user performance then the session analyzer may determine one or more content resources to suggest to the user. In some cases the session analyzer may select the next content resource s in a sequence of content resources being executed by the user such as television program episodes sequential game levels sequential eLearning modules etc. Additionally as noted above certain performance conditions may be CDN specific and or resource type specific performance conditions. Therefore the determination of content resources in step may be performed by analyzing the subset of performance conditions relating to the specific CDN and or resource type. For instance referring again to a calculation of an anticipated net positive effect on user performance in this example may be applicable only for User A and only for Game ABC on the gaming CDN. Thus steps and may include determining a highest anticipated net positive effect on user performance among different CDNs and or resource types based on the same set of current context data.

In step the session analyzer may transmit a notification to the user s mobile device indicating that the current context of the mobile device is correlated with high user performance. For example email text message or application based notifications may be sent in real time or near real time to the user s mobile device and or other nearby mobile devices . Such transmissions may indicate to the user that the current context data e.g. user state device state physical environment etc. corresponds to general high performance conditions for the user or may include one or more suggestions of the specific content resources determined step which may have the highest anticipated performance conditions for the user.

Referring briefly to an example of a user interface screen is shown notifying the user that the current context data for the user and or mobile device is correlated with a high level of user performance for executing content resources on the mobile device . The notification also includes two suggestions of specific content resources and that correspond to the highest anticipated user performance conditions for the current context data.

Referring now to another flow diagram is shown illustrating an example process of determining a set of content resources based on the current context data of a mobile device. The process shown in may be similar to the process described above in in several respects. For example the steps in this process may be performed by one or more components in the mobile device session analyzer systems described above such as a session analyzer server and or mobile device . Additionally steps may be performed after the determination of performance conditions for one or more users based on analyses of previous content resource execution sessions by the users. However the example process shown in may be initiated by the user for example by instantiating and interacting with a CDN client application on a mobile device .

In step a request may be received by a session analyzer from a mobile device indicating that a user intends to initiate a content resource execution session on the mobile device . For example a user may instantiate and or activate a CDN client application on a mobile device such as a web browser media player gaming application professional training or eLearning client or any other CDN client application. In some cases the user may expressly request a suggestion of one or more content resources for the user s current execution session on the mobile device .

In step in response to the user initiated request the session analyzer may retrieve and determine the current context data of the mobile device . Step may be similar or identical to step discussed above. For example the session analyzer may request and receive a transmission of context data from a mobile device . The session analyzer also may retrieve additional context data for the mobile device using the other techniques discussed above such as retrieving context data from local data stores other mobile devices and or external data sources.

In step the session analyzer may compare the current context data of the mobile device to the previously determined performance conditions associated with the user and or the mobile device . Step may be similar or identical to step discussed above. For instance if a user has one or more performance conditions based on time location device movement and background noise then the session analyzer in step may compare the session context variable values for these performance conditions to the current context data of the user s mobile device . The session analyzer also may sum or otherwise combine the anticipated performance effect for multiple different performance conditions as discussed above.

In step the session analyzer may determine one or more sets of content resources to suggest to the user. Step may be similar or identical to step discussed above. For example the session analyzer may select the next content resource s in a sequence of content resources being executed by the user such as television program episodes sequential game levels sequential eLearning modules etc. In some cases the session analyzer be performed by analyzing the subset of performance conditions relating to multiple different CDNs and or resource types in order to determine the highest anticipated net positive effect on user performance among different the CDNs and or resource types based on the same set of current context data as discussed above.

In step the session analyzer may transmit the suggestions of the specific content resources determined step to the user s mobile device for presentation to the user. Step may be similar or identical to step discussed above. In various examples the session analyzer may transmit the determined content resource suggestions via email text message or application based notifications and the suggestions may be ranked in some cases in order of the highest anticipated net positive effect on user performance.

Referring briefly to another example of a user interface screen is shown on a mobile device providing multiple content suggestions in response to the user initiated initiation that the user may wish to perform a content resource execution session. In this case three content resource suggestions have been determined based on the current context data of the mobile device including the current context state of the mobile device the user and the physical environment of the user and mobile device.

As discussed above the steps of may be performed by a session analyzer server or other central computing system based on context data and user input data received from mobile device . However in certain embodiments some or all of the steps of may be performed by individual mobile devices instead of or in addition to session analyzer . For example a mobile device may determine performance conditions individually and or may receive transmissions of additional performance conditions for the user from the session analyzer and or other mobile devices . Using these locally stored performance conditions the mobile device may continuously detect and evaluate the current context data of the mobile device and may generate user notifications and or content suggestions using similar techniques to those discussed above.

Referring now to another flow diagram is shown illustrating a process of determining one or more performance conditions associated with a user based on a user s content resource execution sessions. The process shown in may be similar to the process described above in in several respects. For example data from the user s content resource execution sessions including session context data and session performance data may be analyzed to determine performance conditions for the user. Similarly the steps in this process may be performed by one or more components in the mobile device session analyzer systems described above such as a session analyzer server and or mobile device . However the steps of discussed below describe groups of related execution sessions performed by a user rather than individual execution sessions. For example a user s overall performance for a group of content resource execution sessions may be analyzed based on session group characteristics instead of or in addition to the context data of individual execution sessions.

In step data relating to one or more content resource execution sessions may be received for example by a mobile device session analyzer from one or more mobile devices . Step or may be similar or identical to step discussed above. For example the data received in step may include session data e.g. user identifier resource identifiers execution session start time execution session stop time etc. as well as various types of context data user interaction data received by the mobile device and any other data collected in connection with an execution of content resources on the mobile device . As shown in step may execute multiple times and thus data for multiple different execution sessions may be received before steps are performed to analyze and determine performance conditions based on the execution session data.

In step after receiving data describing multiple content resource execution sessions performed by a user on one or more mobile devices the received data may be sorted and grouped into related execution sessions for analysis purposes. For example the received execution session data may be sorted to group execution sessions performed by the user within the same CDN or such as a specific media distribution CDN a gaming CDN a professional training or eLearning CDN and the like. Additionally within a specific CDN or the execution session data may be sorted and or grouped by resource content type. For instance within a gaming CDN the received execution session data may be grouped into sessions by the specific game and or game levels played. For a professional training or eLearning CDN the received execution session data may be grouped into sessions by the specific training learning modules subjects courses etc.

In step one or more performance measurements may be determined for the user for each group of content resource execution sessions determined in step . Thus step may include similar or identical techniques to those discussed above in step . However rather than determining performance measurements for individual execution sessions by a user the performance determination in step may apply to the groups of execution sessions determined in step . In some cases performance measurements for session groups may correspond to a user scores or evaluations. For example gaming software may calculate overall user scores for games or game levels completed over multiple execution session by the user. Similarly professional training or eLearning software may calculate overall user scores based on automated online tests or other evaluations completed at the end of an training eLearning module course semester curriculum etc.

Additionally performance measurements of session groups may be based on express feedback from the user regarding the group of content resources such as user content ratings discussion posts content evaluations and the like for groups of execution sessions e.g. training eLearning courses games television programs etc. . As discussed above such express user feedback also may include factors such as the amount of time the user played executed the content resources within the group the user decisions and other interactions during the execution sessions for the group of resources and audio and or visual cues collected and stored by the mobile device during the group of execution sessions. In some embodiments the performance measurements determined in step also may include overall consumption velocities and or remediation rates for the user for the group of execution sessions rather than for individual execution sessions as discussed above in step .

In step one or more session group characteristics may be determined for each group of content resource execution sessions determined in step . Such session group characteristics may include characteristics that apply to groups of execution sessions rather than to individual execution sessions. For example session analyzer server and or mobile devices may determine the number of content resource execution sessions in the group the average length of time of each content resource execution session and the average amount of time between the content resource execution sessions in the group.

Referring briefly to an example data table is shown containing illustrative session group data. In this example a number of different session groups have been defined in the first two columns of table each session group correspond to a specific user and specific CDN resource type. For each session group table includes the number of execution sessions performed by the user within the session group the average length of each session in the group and the average amount of time between each session in the group. It should be understood that the session group characteristics used in this example are illustrative only and non limiting. For instance instead of or in addition to average session length and average time between sessions additional session group characteristics may include the standard deviations and variances of the session length and time between sessions as well as other statistical measurements determined for each group of execution sessions. Additionally for each session group in example table a performance measure is shown for session group. These performance measurements may correspond to the one or more of the group performance measurements determined in step .

In step the session analyzer server and or mobile devices may determine or update sets of user performance conditions for one or more groups of content resource execution sessions. Thus step may include similar or identical techniques to those discussed above in step . However rather than determining correlations between context data and user performance in individual execution sessions step may include determining statistical correlations between session group characteristics step and the user s performance data for the overall session group step . For example a performance condition for a session group may correlate a particular pattern between the number length and frequency of execution sessions and a higher or lower level of performance by the user for the session group as a whole. For instance session analyzer or mobile device may determine that a user scores consistently better on training eLearning module tests when the user studies in short frequent study sessions as compared to longer and less frequent study sessions. As another example the session analyzer or mobile device may determine that a user has a consistently lower remediation rate when the user reviews training course materials at a frequency of 2 to 7 days and a significantly higher remediation rate when the user reviews training course materials at a frequency of greater than 7 days.

In some embodiments the performance conditions for session groups determined in step may be similar to those determined for individual execution sessions discussed above in step . For example a session analyzer or mobile device may determine pairs of session group characteristics or combinations of session group characteristics along with corresponding predicted performance effect for the user e.g. a Performance on a session group performance point scale . As with performance conditions for individual execution sessions certain session group performance conditions determined in step may apply to individual users while other performance conditions may be applicable to groups of users. Additionally certain session group performance conditions may be applicable to specific CDNs and or specific types of resources within CDNs while others may apply to one or more users across multiple different CDNs and or resource types.

In order to determine the session group performance conditions in step the session analyzer or mobile device may execute statistical analysis techniques to identify a session group characteristic or combination of characteristics isolate the characteristic s and calculate the performance effect of the characteristics. For example the session analyzer may use regression analyses to control for the performance effects of other session context variables and other session group characteristics thereby isolating a single session group characteristic or combination of characteristics while effectively holding constant all other variables affecting user performance during the session group. After removing the potential performance effects caused by other session group characteristic and individual session context variables via regression analysis the effect caused by one isolated group characteristic s may be calculated to determine the performance of those characteristics. Similar regressions may be used to isolate analyze the performance effect caused by all session group characteristics. Such calculations also may take into account e.g. control for the difficulty of the content resources executed during the session group based on performance data from other users executing the same resource group and or the performance of the user executing other similar resource groups.

In step session group performance conditions determined in step may be transmitted to one or more user devices. Step may be similar or identical to step discussed above. For example reports of session group performance conditions may be generated and transmitted to client devices as well as instructor administrator devices associated with the users. Additionally as discussed above in reference to after a set of session group performance conditions have been determined for a user the current context of the user and the user s devices may be monitored in order to provide notifications and suggestions to the user for executing certain content resources at certain times based on the session group performance data.

For example referring briefly to an example of a user interface screen is shown on a mobile device . In this example a notification and content suggestion is provided to the user based on an analysis of the user s session group performance conditions with respect to an eLearning course module. Specifically in this example a session analyzer and or mobile device has determined a suggested pattern of study session times frequencies and lengths for a user based on the user s session group performance conditions.

A number of variations and modifications of the disclosed embodiments can also be used. Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

