---

title: Embedded reversibly opaque display cover for an electronic device
abstract: Embodiments of the disclosure relate to a cover for an electronic device. The cover can be deployed on a transparent surface of the electronic device and can reversibly occlude the view through the transparent surface. In certain embodiments, the cover can include a closed bounding surface region that is transparent and has a specific volume. The bounding surface can define an interior open space that can be partitioned into multiple cavities, where nearest-neighboring cavities can share a surface that defines each of such cavities. In one embodiment, in order to occlude the view through the transparent surface, an opaque liquid can be injected into the cavities, where the liquid can solidify and, thus, can form an opaque solid layer. To reverse such an occlusion and, effectively, uncover the transparent surface, the solid layer can be melted by applying a suitable voltage to at least one of the multiple cavities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576112&OS=09576112&RS=09576112
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09576112
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150219
---
A cover that can be attached usually in a wrap around fashion to a portable electronic device such as a tablet or a smartphone may increase the longevity of such a device by mitigating or avoiding damage throughout the course of usage of the device. Typical covers can be bulky and while they can be removed end users tend to keep their devices covered at all times.

The disclosure recognizes and addresses in at least certain embodiments the utilization of protective covers in portable electronic devices. Accordingly embodiments of the disclosure provide a cover for an electronic device. The cover can be deployed on a transparent surface of the electronic device such as a display surface and can reversibly occlude the view through the surface. In certain embodiments the cover can include a closed bounding surface that is transparent and has a specific volume and uniform thickness. The uniform thickness refers to a thickness that is essentially independent of the position at which the thickness is determined or otherwise probed. In one embodiment the volume of the bounding surface can be partitioned into multiple semi open spaces which also may be referred to as cavities where nearest neighboring spaces can share a surface that defines at least in part each of such spaces. In one embodiment in order to occlude the view through the surface an opaque liquid can be injected into the open spaces where the liquid can solidify and thus can form an opaque solid layer. The liquid can be contained in one or more reservoirs fluidically coupled to the bounding surface. In the alternative a solid phase of a substance that forms the liquid upon melting can be retained in the one or more reservoirs. To reverse such an occlusion and effectively uncover the transparent surface of the electronic device the opaque solid layer can be melted. To that end in one example a suitable voltage can be applied to at least one of the multiple open spaces. In one embodiment the voltage can arise from amplifying an initial voltage generated in response to heat transfer from a source external to the electronic device.

As illustrated at an instant t the electronic device can be exposed to a gesture or another type of interaction such as a tap a swipe actuation of a physical button or the like where the gesture or the interaction originate from an end user. In one example the electronic device can include input device e.g. a touch screen display a button a camera a microphone a reader device or scanner inductive coils or the like configured to receive an input signal indicative or otherwise representative of the gesture or the other interaction. It should be appreciated that in one aspect the gesture or the other interaction can be directed to convey an intent or desire to cover the surface e.g. the gesture can be a voice command such as a keyword or phrase a snap of fingers a certain movement or the like and the interaction can be a specific sequence of taps a certain movement of the electronic device or the like. As such in response to the gesture or the other type of interaction at a subsequent instant t for example a certain amount of liquid can enter into a transparent region not shown included in the surface . In one embodiment the transparent region can be bound by six surfaces and can define an interior space that can receive the liquid. As such the six surfaces bounding the region may be referred to as a bounding surface and the transparent region may be referred to as a transparent bounding region or hollow transparent region. The liquid can be injected into the transparent region from a group of reservoirs at least one reservoir of the group of reservoirs being fluidically coupled to the transparent region. Injection of the liquid is represented by arrows in . In certain embodiments each of the reservoirs is configured to receive an amount of a substance e.g. a Pb Mg alloy in liquid phase and can define a passage or another type of opening that can permit egress of liquid to the transparent region. In order to inject the liquid in one example a certain amount of a substance in solid state can be contained in each of the group of reservoirs. In addition the substance can be melted and therefore the volume of the formed liquid can exceed the volume of the reservoir that contains the liquid. In certain embodiments a heating device coupled e.g. electrically and thermally coupled to the reservoir can increase the temperature of the substance and cause it to melt. In view of the fluidic coupling between the reservoir and the transparent region the liquid can overflow into the transparent region producing a flow of liquid. As illustrated four reservoirs can provide respectively four flows of liquid. In certain embodiments the transparent region can be embodied in a solid flexible or otherwise bounding surface that can be placed on top of a transparent or translucent surface included in the surface . Such a transparent or translucent surface can be embodied in a screen or another type of surface that can permit viewing content or other type of indicia displayed or otherwise presented by the electronic device . The bounding surface can define a semi open space that in certain embodiments can be partitioned into multiple semi open cavities not depicted in . Nearest neighboring cavities of the multiple semi open cavities defined by the solid bounding surface e.g. the solid bounding surface shown in can share at least one surface that defines each of such cavities and can be fluidically coupled in order to permit transfer of fluid from one semi open cavity to another. In one implementation the multiple semi open cavities can be embodied in or can constitute a three dimensional 3D Voronoi tessellation where each of the semi open cavities can be associated with a single specific point in space where such a point may be referred to as a node. It can be appreciated that the 3D Voronoi tessellation can provide a simply connected network of semi open spaces with full coverage of the volume defined by the solid bounding surface. As an illustration illustrates a schematic representation of an example embodiment of the electronic device in which the reservoirs are shown relative to a housing of the electronic device . A solid bounding surface in accordance with the disclosure also is shown. In one aspect the solid flexible or otherwise bounding surface can have a specific volume and a substantially uniform or uniform thickness d a real number in the range from about 200 m to about 2 mm. The thickness d can be determined by numerous factors individually or in combination such as the viscosity of the liquid that flows within the solid bounding surface and the multiple cavities therein the thermal dilation coefficient of the substance that forms the liquid or other physical chemical or physicochemical parameters of the substance that forms the liquid. Similarly the volume can be determined by numerous factors such as the size of the display surface of the electronic device . It should be appreciated that the substance in the solid phases can be mechanically strong e.g. high strength high hardness and or high toughness flexible and or chemically resistant which can provide mechanical stability and or handling resilience to the solid bounding surface when the substance is in the solid phase and contained within such a surface. Mechanical strength refers to the capacity of a material to withstand a load and can include for example yield strength compressive strength tensile strength fatigue strength impact strength or a combination thereof.

After a certain time interval at a time t for example each of the multiple semi open cavities included in the transparent region included in the surface can be filled at least partially with the opaque liquid injected in response to the gesture . The liquid can solidify after injection into the multiple semi open cavities and an opaque cover can be formed on the surface of the electronic device occluding the view through the surface .

As described herein the surface can be reversibly occluded. As such the opaque cover can be removed in order to restore the viewing through the surface . To that end in one aspect at a time t t an end user of the electronic device can swipe or otherwise interact with the surface of the electronic device which is occluded by the opaque cover . In response to a swipe a heat sensor included in the electronic device can sense or otherwise detect an amount of heat transferred from the swipe and received at the electronic device . In one embodiment the heat sensor can be distributed and can include a transparent or translucent layer placed on top of the bounding surface configured to receive liquid from one or more reservoirs in accordance with aspects described herein. The transparent or translucent layer can be formed from a material that can absorb electromagnetic radiation in the infrared IR portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. It such an embodiment the heat sensor may be referred to as a heat sensor layer. Regardless of the specific structure the heat sensor also can include circuitry that can receive or otherwise generate an electric current in response to absorbed IR electromagnetic radiation and can output or otherwise generate a voltage indicative or otherwise representative of the electric current. In certain implementations such a circuitry can be included in an electronics unit included in the electronic device . As an illustration presents a schematic representation of an example embodiment of the electronic device in which a portion of a distributed heat sensor is shown. As illustrated the heat sensor can be placed on top of a bounding surface defining multiple cavities as described herein. The multiple cavities are depicted which thick dashes. In addition the bounding surface is placed on top of a transparent or translucent layer which can embody or can constitute the surface as described herein. More specifically the bounding surface can include a first surface and a second surface opposing the first surface and the heat sensor can be placed on top of the first surface. Further the second surface of the bounding surface can be in contact with a surface of the transparent or translucent layer .

In other embodiments instead of detecting heat a capacitive sensor or another type of sensor e.g. a capacitive sensor can detect touch of the surface of the electronic device e.g. presence of a swipe at the surface or another type of gesture indicative of an intent to retract or otherwise remove the opaque cover . Detection of touch or a gesture can cause the sensor to provide an electric signal representative of the intent to remove the opaque cover .

In addition or in other embodiments the electronic device can include other circuitry that can amplify the voltage output or other types of electrical signals generated by the heat sensor and or the touch sensor. The magnitude or level of the amplification can be determined for example by an intended or otherwise desired voltage value suitable for melting the substance or material that fills the transparent region and forms the occluded cover . More specifically yet not exclusively a voltage generated by the heat sensor of the electronic device in response to heat transfer from the swipe can be amplified and applied to at least one of the cavities included in the transparent region configured to receive a liquid. The applied amplified voltage can cause a distribution of voltages across the multiple cavities included in the transparent region. More specifically as described herein at least some of the multiple cavities can be electrically coupled via viases traces or other types of interconnectors formed from a transparent conductor e.g. indium tin oxide ITO for example and thus a voltage that is applied to a single cavity can cause a distribution of applied voltages across the other cavities in the transparent region. In an embodiment the multiple cavities are arranged or otherwise assembled in a tree configuration or another type of hierarchical configuration in which the multiple cavities represent recursive subdivisions. The subdivisions can represent divisions of the space defined by the transparent region into eight octants where a set of eight cavities represents a node in the tree and each node in the tree has eight leafs or children . Such a hierarchical configuration can be referred to as an octree. It can be appreciated that the octree has a top or root node and in certain implementations a voltage can be applied directly to the root node which can cause another node in the octree to be subjected to another voltage consistent with the placement of the other node in the octree. Therefore it can be appreciated that a voltage applied to the root node of the octree can cause a distribution of voltages across the octree. Similar distribution of voltages can be caused by application of a voltage to a specific cavity when the multiple cavities are arranged or otherwise assembled in a configuration other than an octree.

With respect to an electronics unit that can permit sensing and voltage amplification in accordance with aspects described herein it should be appreciated that in certain embodiments the electronics unit also can include electronic components and or other circuitry that can permit or otherwise facilitate specific functionality of the electronic device . For example the electronics unit can include one or more processors one or more input output I O interfaces and or one or more memory devices. In addition the electronics unit also can include a bus architecture that can functionally couple various electronic components within the electronics unit. In one example the bus architecture can include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and can permit the exchange of information data metadata and or signaling between the one or more processors the one or more I O interfaces and or the one or more memory devices or respective functional elements therein. In certain scenarios the bus in conjunction with one or more internal programming interfaces which may be retained in memory can permit such exchange of information. In certain embodiments the electronics unit can be embodied in or can include a motherboard.

In at least certain embodiments suitable amplification of the voltage generated in response to the swipe and the application of such a voltage to at least one cavity of the multiple cavities in the transparent region contained in the opaque cover can cause a distribution of voltages across the multiple cavities such that the voltage at a given cavity exceeds a threshold for melting the solid contained in the given cavity. As such at a time t subsequent to t the solid liquid transitions present in the multiple cavities can cause the liquid to flow towards the reservoirs described herein. As illustrated flows can cause the reservoirs to receive the liquid that was in solid state forming the opaque cover that occludes the view of the display of the device . Restoration of the liquid into the reservoirs is represented with arrows oriented towards the reservoirs.

Upon or after the liquid resulting from the melting of the opaque cover has been received at the reservoirs described herein the opaque cover is effectively removed. As further illustrated in at an instant t for example the viewing through the surface can be restored.

The electronic device can include a screen that can be transparent or translucent and can permit viewing content displayed by the electronic device . In addition in certain embodiments the screen can permit other forms of interaction with an end user such as touch e.g. swipes taps or the like or other types of contact. The screen can generally be formed from a transparent or substantially transparent material e.g. a plastic a glass or the like . In addition as described herein see for example the screen can include a heat sensor layer and a solid transparent region defining multiple cavities e.g. a hierarchical arrangement of 3D semi open Voronoi regions . The solid transparent region can have a uniform or substantially uniform thickness in the range from about 200 m to about 2 mm and can be manufactured via 3D printing lithography or other deposition techniques. As described herein in certain embodiments the multiple cavities can receive a liquid opaque substance that can solidify within the cavities. Therefore in one example the solid transparent region filled with the solidified substance can occlude the view of the content displayed at the electronic device . The filled solid transparent region also can provide mechanical protection against damage or wear and tear of at least a portion of the screen .

The electronic device also can include an electronics unit having various electronics components and or circuitry that can permit or otherwise facilitate specific functionality of the device. For example the electronics unit can include one or more processors one or more input output I O interfaces and or one or more memory devices. In addition the electronics unit also can include a bus architecture that can functionally couple various electronic components within the electronics unit . In one example the bus architecture can include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and can permit the exchange of information data metadata and or signaling between the one or more processors the one or more I O interfaces and or the one or more memory devices or respective functional elements therein. In certain scenarios the bus in conjunction with one or more internal programming interfaces which may be retained in memory can permit such exchange of information. In scenarios in which multiple processors are included in the electronics unit the electronic device can utilize or otherwise leverage parallel computing. In certain embodiments the electronics unit can be embodied in or can include a motherboard. While the electronics unit is illustrated as a single block it should be appreciated that it can be comprised of multiple sub units that are functionally coupled to each other. Functional coupling can include for example communicative coupling electrical coupling thermal coupling mechanical coupling couplings according to a combination of the foregoing or the like.

In certain embodiments the electronics unit can include optionally a radio unit having one or more antennas and a communication processing unit that can permit wireless communication between the electronic device and other devices such as a remote computing device and or a remote sensor. Further in certain embodiments the electronics unit can include one or more sensors that can permit or otherwise facilitate certain functionality of the electronic device such as navigation biometric sensing a combination thereof or the like. For instance the one or more sensors can include inertial sensor s e.g. accelerometers gyroscopes etc. magnetic sensor s e.g. a three axis magnetometer biometric sensor s a combination thereof or the like.

At least one of the one or more I O interfaces that may be included in the electronics unit can permit communication of information between the electronic device and an external device such as another computing device e.g. a network element or an end user device . Such communication can include direct communication or indirect communication such as the exchange of information between the electronic device and the external device via a network or elements thereof. In at least certain embodiments such as the electronic device in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure shown in the one or more I O interfaces can include one or more of network adapter s peripheral adapter s and or rendering unit s . Such adapter s can permit or otherwise facilitate connectivity between the external device and at least one of the one or more processors or the one or more memory devices that can be present in the electronics unit . Further at least one of the one or more I O interfaces included in the electronics unit can permit via a display unit for example output of information from the electronic device . At least a portion of such information can be generated at the electronic device or a remote computing device functionally coupled to the electronic device . Such output can be any form of visual representation of the information including textual graphical animation audio tactile haptic and the like. In addition or in the alternative depending on the architectural complexity of the electronic device at least one of the one or more I O interfaces can include functional elements e.g. lights such as light emitting diodes a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor or an electrochromic monitor combinations thereof or the like that can permit control of the operation of the electronic device or can permit conveying or revealing the operational conditions of the electronic device .

In one aspect the bus architecture included in the electronics unit can represent one or more of several possible types of bus structures including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. As an illustration such architectures can comprise an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express bus a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA bus a Universal Serial Bus USB and the like.

The electronics unit can include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media transitory and non transitory that can be accessed by a computing device. In one aspect computer readable media can comprise computer non transitory storage media or computer readable non transitory storage media and communications media. Example computer readable non transitory storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by the electronic device and can comprise for example both volatile and non volatile media and removable and or non removable media. In one aspect the one or memory devices included in the electronics unit can include computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM .

The one or more memory devices that can be contained within the electronics unit can include computer accessible instructions that in response to execution by at least one of the one or more processors included in the electronics unit for example can implement one or more of the functionalities e.g. telecommunication media display or playback biometric sensing navigation a combination thereof or the like of the electronic device . The computer accessible instructions can embody or can comprise one or more software components not shown . In one scenario execution of at least one of such component s can implement one or more of the functionalities of the electronic device . The one or more computer accessible instructions can be persisted e.g. stored made available or stored and made available in a computer storage non transitory medium contained in the memory and can be executed by at least one of the one or more processors contained within the electronics unit . The one or more computer accessible instructions that embody a software component can be assembled into one or more program modules for example that can be compiled linked and or executed at the electronic device . Generally such program modules comprise computer code routines programs objects components information structures e.g. data structures and or metadata structures etc. that can perform particular tasks e.g. one or more operations in response to execution by one or more processors which can be integrated into the electronic device or functionally coupled thereto.

In certain embodiments the electronics unit can include an input device configured to receive an input signal indicative or otherwise representative of a gesture or other types of interaction between an end user and the electronic device . In addition to gestures an interaction with the electronic device from an end user can include for example a tap a swipe actuation of a physical button or the like. In one example the input device can be included in the I O interface s of the electronics unit and can be embodied in or can be include a touch screen display a button a camera or other optical sensors a reader device inductive coils motion sensors or the like. In addition or in other embodiments the electronics unit can include a heating device circuitry for heat sensing and or touch sensing signal amplifiers generally referred to as amplifiers and various electrical conductors.

Further or in yet other embodiments the heat sensor layer that can be included in the screen can be coupled heat sensing circuitry that can be included in the electronics unit . In other embodiments the heat sensor layer can include the heat sensing circuitry. Regardless of the specific arrangement the heat sensor layer and the heat sensing circuitry can embody or can constitute a heat sensor configured to detect heat received from a source external to the electronic device . The heat sensor via the heat sensing circuitry can be further configured to output a voltage or a current indicative of an amount of heat received at the heat sensor. A component of the electronics unit such as a signal amplifier can be configured to amplify the voltage or the current output to melt at least a portion of the substance contained in the reservoirs . In addition an electrical conductor coupled to the signal amplifier can be configured to apply an amplified voltage or amplified current from the signal amplifier to the multiple cavities that can be present in the transparent bounding region included in the screen in order to melt the substance within the multiple cavities. Therefore in one aspect the melting of the substance can cause an amount of liquefied substance to flow to each of the reservoirs via the multiple cavities to restore or otherwise permit the view of a previously occluded screen . In other embodiments a touch sensor can be included in the screen and can be configured to detect a swipe at a screen . In response to the swipe the touch sensor or sensing circuitry coupled thereto can output a voltage or current indicative or otherwise representative of the swipe. The signal amplifier can be configured to amplify such a voltage or current to melt the substance contained in the reservoirs 

The electronic device can include a battery or another type of power supply which can power components or functional elements within the electronic device . The battery can be rechargeable and can be formed by stacking active elements e.g. cathode anode separator material and electrolyte or winding a multi layered roll of such elements.

In addition the electronic device also can include a housing that can enclose or otherwise contain the battery and the electronics unit . The housing also can be configured e.g. sized and or otherwise suitably manufactured to receive the screen and form a closed device embedding the electronics unit and the battery . In one aspect the housing can include four reservoirs placed at respective corners of the housing . Similar to other reservoirs described herein each of the reservoirs can be configured to receive a liquid substance and or contain an amount of the substance in solid state. The substance can be opaque and can be embodied or can include a eutectic alloy such as a Pb Mg alloy having a melting point above room temperature in accordance with aspects of this disclosure. In certain embodiments the heating device that can be included in the electronic device can be coupled to each of the reservoirs and can be configured to receive an electric signal to cause the heating device to melt the substance contained in the reservoirs. In one aspect the electric signal can be generated by a component of the electronics unit in response to input signal indicative or otherwise representative of a gesture or another type of interaction between the electronic device and an end user. As described herein multiple cavities defined by the transparent bounding region included in the screen can receive an amount of liquefied substance which can solidify and can occlude the screen .

As illustrated the electronic device can include one or more processors one or more I O interfaces a battery one or more memory devices referred to as memory and a bus architecture also referred to as bus that can functionally couple various functional elements of the electronic device . In certain embodiments the electronic device can include optionally a radio unit . The radio unit can include one or more antennas and a communication processing unit that can permit wireless communication between the electronic device and another device such as a remote computing device and or a remote sensor. In addition while not illustrated in certain embodiments the electronic device can include one or more sensors that can permit certain functionality of the electronic device such as navigation biometric sensing a combination thereof or the like. For instance the one or more sensors can include inertial sensor s magnetic sensor s biometric sensor s a combination thereof or the like. The bus can include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and can permit the exchange of information data metadata and or signaling between the processor s the I O interface s and or the memory or respective functional elements therein. In certain scenarios the bus in conjunction with one or more internal programming interfaces also referred to as interface s can permit such exchange of information. In scenarios in which the processor s include multiple processors the electronic device can utilize or otherwise leverage parallel computing.

The I O interface s can permit functionally coupling e.g. communicatively coupling the electronic device with an external device such as another computing device e.g. a network element or an end user device . In one example the I O interface s can permit or otherwise facilitate tethering the electronic device to the external device. Such a functional coupling can permit communication between the electronic device and the external device. The communication can include direct communication or indirect communication such as the exchange of information between the electronic device and the external device via a network or elements thereof. In at least certain embodiments the I O interface s can include network adapter s peripheral adapter s and or rendering unit s . Such adapter s can permit or otherwise facilitate connectivity between the external device and at least one of the processor s the memory and or the radio unit when present . For example the peripheral adapter s can include one or more ports which can include at least one of parallel ports serial ports Ethernet ports V.35 ports or X.21 ports. In certain embodiments the parallel ports can include General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB ports and or IEEE 1284 ports and the serial ports can include Recommended Standard RS 232 ports V.11 ports USB ports FireWire and or IEEE 1394 ports.

In one aspect at least one of the I O interface s can functionally couple via a network adapter for example the electronic device to one or more remote computing devices or sensors not depicted in . To at least such an end the at least one of the I O interface s can utilize or otherwise leverage one or more traffic and signaling pipes that can permit or otherwise facilitate the exchange of traffic and or signaling between the electronic device and the one or more remote computing devices or sensors. Such network coupling provided at least in part by the at least one of the I O interface s can be implemented in a wired environment a wireless environment or both. The information that is communicated by the at least one of the I O interface s can result from the implementation of certain functionality telecommunication media display or playback navigation biometric sensing and the like of the electronic device .

Further at least one of the I O interface s can permit via a rendering unit for example output of information from the electronic device . The rendering unit can be embodied in or can include a display device an audio speaker a haptic device a combination thereof or the like. At least a portion of such information can be generated at the electronic device or a remote computing device functionally coupled to the electronic device . Such output can be any form of visual representation of the information including textual graphical animation audio haptic and the like. In addition or in the alternative depending on the architectural complexity of the electronic device the at least one of the I O interface s can include functional elements e.g. lights such as light emitting diodes a display device such as an LCD a plasma monitor an LED monitor or an electrochromic monitor combinations thereof or the like that can permit control of the operation of the electronic device or can permit conveying or revealing the operational conditions of the electronic device .

In one aspect the bus can represent one or more of several possible types of bus structures including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. As an illustration such architectures can comprise an ISA bus a MCA bus an EISA bus a VESA local bus an AGP bus a PCI bus a PCI Express bus a PCMCIA bus a USB and the like.

The electronic device can include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media transitory and non transitory that can be accessed by a computing device. In one aspect computer readable media can comprise computer non transitory storage media or computer readable non transitory storage media and communications media. Example computer readable non transitory storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by the electronic device and can comprise for example both volatile and non volatile media and removable and or non removable media. In one aspect the memory can include computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as RAM and or non volatile memory such as ROM.

The memory can include functionality instructions storage and functionality information storage . In certain embodiments one or more of the functionality instructions storage and the functionality information storage can be embodied in or can comprise removable non removable and or volatile non volatile computer storage media. The functionality instructions storage can include computer accessible instructions including computer readable and or computer executable instructions. In response to execution by at least one of the processor s for example the computer accessible instructions can implement one or more of the functionalities of the electronic device . Such functionalities can include for example telecommunication media display or playback biometric sensing navigation a combination thereof or the like. The computer accessible instructions can embody or can comprise one or more software components not depicted . As such in one scenario execution of at least one of such component s can implement one or more of the functionalities of the electronic device . A processor of the processor s that executes at least one of the software component s can retrieve information from and or retain information in one or more memory elements in the functionality information storage in accordance with the functionality programmed or otherwise configured by the software component s . The one or more memory elements within the functionality information storage can include at least one of code instructions information structures or the like.

At least the portion of the computer accessible instructions included in the memory can be stored in a non transitory computer storage medium contained in the memory and can be executed by at least one of the processor s . In one example the functionality instruction s storage can embody a non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer accessible instructions that in response to execution cause at least one processor e.g. one or more of the processor s to perform a group of operations associated with specific functionality of the electronic device . In addition the one or more computer accessible instructions that embody a software component can be assembled into one or more program modules for example that can be compiled linked and or executed at the electronic device or other computing devices. Generally such program modules comprise computer code routines programs objects components information structures e.g. data structures and or metadata structures etc. that can perform particular tasks e.g. one or more operations in response to execution by one or more processors which can be integrated into the electronic device or functionally coupled thereto.

At least one of the one or more interfaces e.g. application programming interface s can permit or facilitate communication of information between two or more components within the functionality instructions storage . The information that is communicated by the at least one interface can result from implementation e.g. execution of one or more operations associated with a functionality of the electronic device . For example two or more software components in the functionality instructions storage that are being executed can exchange information via the at least one of the interface s .

It should be recognized that while the functionality instructions storage and other executable program components such as the OS instruction s are illustrated herein as discrete blocks such software components can reside at various times in different memory components of the electronic device and can be executed by at least one of the processor s .

In addition the memory can comprise computer accessible instructions and information e.g. data metadata and or programming code instructions that permit or otherwise facilitate the operation and or administration e.g. upgrades software installation any other configuration or the like of the electronic device . Accordingly as illustrated the memory can comprise a memory element labeled operating system OS instruction s that contains one or more program modules that embody or include one or more operating systems such as Windows operating system Unix Linux Symbian Android Chromium and substantially any OS suitable for mobile computing devices or tethered computing devices. In one aspect the operational and or architectural complexity of the electronic device can dictate a suitable OS. The memory also can include a system information storage having data metadata and or instructions e.g. programming code that can permit or otherwise facilitate the operation and or administration of the electronic device . Elements of the OS instruction s and the system information storage can be accessible or can be operated on by at least one of the processor s .

As described herein the electronic device can include a battery that can power components or functional elements within the electronic device . The battery can be rechargeable and can be formed by stacking active elements e.g. cathode anode separator material and electrolyte or winding a multi layered roll of such elements.

In addition to the battery the electronic device can include one or more transformers not depicted and or other circuitry not depicted to achieve a power level suitable for the operation of the electronic device and the components functional elements and related circuitry therein. In certain scenarios the electronic device can be attached to a conventional power grid to recharge the battery and ensure that the electronic device and the functional elements therein can be operational. In one aspect at least one of the I O interface s can permit connecting to the conventional power grid. In certain embodiments the electronic device can include an energy conversion component such as a solar panel to provide additional or alternative power resources or power autonomy to the electronic device .

It should be appreciated that in certain embodiments the electronic device can operate in a networked environment by utilizing connections to one or more remote computing devices and or sensors not depicted in . As an illustration a remote computing device can be a personal computer a portable computer a server a router a network computer a peer device or other common network node and so on. As described herein connections physical and or logical between the electronic device and a remote computing device or sensor can be made via one or more traffic and signaling pipes which can comprise wired link s and or wireless link s and several network elements such as routers or switches servers and the like that form a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or other networks wireless or wired having different footprints. Such networking environments are conventional and commonplace in dwellings offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets local area networks and wide area networks.

In one or more embodiments at least some of the functionality of the electronic device can be practiced in distributed computing environments such as grid based environments where tasks can be performed by remote processing devices e.g. network servers that are functionally coupled e.g. communicatively linked or otherwise coupled through a network having traffic and signaling pipes and related network elements. In a distributed computing environment in one aspect one or more software components such as program modules that permit or otherwise facilitate the functionality of the electronic device may be located in both the electronic device and at least one remote computing device.

Numerous techniques may be implemented in accordance with aspects of this disclosure. In view of the aspects described herein an example method for providing an embedded reversible cover for an electronic device according to one or more embodiments of the disclosure is illustrated in . The example method includes block at which a semi open or otherwise hollow transparent region can be provided. In certain embodiments providing the hollow transparent region can include providing a solid flexible or otherwise bounding surface that embodies or includes the transparent region. As described herein the transparent region can have a uniform or nearly uniform thickness. In addition or in other embodiments the solid bounding surface can define multiple cavities in its interior. In one example the multiple cavities can be arranged or otherwise assembled e.g. manufactured to form a hierarchical tesselation of 3D Voronoi regions e.g. a quadtree an octree or other tree structures. As such in certain embodiments providing the semi open solid layer can include determining or otherwise computing a specific arrangement of 3D Voronoi regions. Further or in other embodiments providing the semi open solid layer can include manufacturing the arrangement of 3D Voronoi regions via 3D printing and or lithography.

At block a heat sensor can be provided. As described herein in certain embodiments providing the heat sensor can include depositing or otherwise assembling a solid layer of a material that can absorb IR radiation onto the semi open solid layer. At block a group of reservoirs e.g. reservoirs can be provided. In one aspect each of the group of reservoirs can be configured to receive or contain a substance such as a eutectic alloy having a melting point in a range near room temperature. At block the group of reservoirs can be coupled to the hollow transparent region provided at block . For example the coupling between a reservoir of the group of reservoirs can be fluidically coupled to the hollow transparent region which can permit the transfer of liquid between the reservoir and the interior of the hollow transparent region for example. At block the heat sensor provided at block can be coupled e.g. electrically and or thermally coupled to a signal amplifier analogic or digital . In one example the signal amplifier can amplify an electric signal e.g. a voltage or a current generated or otherwise output by the heat sensor. At block the semi open solid layer can be assembled or otherwise arranged onto a display screen of the electronic device.

It should be appreciated that in the subject example method the various components that can be provided can be monolithically deposited or otherwise manufactured via numerous techniques individually or in combination such as molecular beam epitaxy chemical vapor deposition sputtering lamination and the like.

Unless otherwise expressly stated it is in no way intended that any protocol procedure process or method set forth herein be construed as requiring that its acts or steps be performed in a specific order. Accordingly where a process or method claim does not actually recite an order to be followed by its acts or steps or it is not otherwise specifically recited in the claims or descriptions of the subject disclosure that the steps are to be limited to a specific order it is no way intended that an order be inferred in any respect. This holds for any possible non express basis for interpretation including matters of logic with respect to arrangement of steps or operational flow plain meaning derived from grammatical organization or punctuation the number or type of embodiments described in the specification or annexed drawings or the like. In addition it is to be understood and appreciated that not all illustrated actions may be required to implement a protocol a procedure a process or a method in accordance with one or more aspects of this disclosure.

As utilized in this application the terms component system architecture I O interface or terms referring to other computing device interfaces unit module pipe and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities. Such entities may be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable portion of software a thread of execution a program and or a computing device. For example both a software application executing on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution. A component may be localized on one computing device or distributed between two or more computing devices. As described herein a component can execute from various computer readable non transitory media having various data structures stored thereon. Components can communicate via local and or remote processes in accordance for example with a signal either analogic or digital having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as a wide area network with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry that is controlled by a software application or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts and the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In certain embodiments components can communicate via local and or remote processes in accordance for example with a signal either analog or digital having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as a wide area network with other systems via the signal . In other embodiments components can communicate or otherwise be coupled via thermal mechanical electrical and or electromechanical coupling mechanisms such as conduits connectors combinations thereof or the like . A computing device interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or other programming components. The terms component system architecture I O interface or terms referring to other computing device interfaces unit module and pipe can be utilized interchangeably and can be referred to collectively as functional elements.

As utilized in this disclosure the term processor can refer to any computing processing unit or device comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit IC an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A processor can be implemented as a combination of computing processing units. In certain embodiments processors can utilize nanoscale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance the performance of user equipment or other electronic equipment.

In addition in the present specification and annexed drawings terms such as memory and substantially any other information storage component relevant to the operation and functionality of a component of the disclosure refer to memory components entities embodied in a memory or components forming the memory. It can be appreciated that the memory components or memories described herein embody or comprise non transitory computer storage media that can be readable or otherwise accessible by a computing device. Such media can be implemented in any methods or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions information structures program modules or other information objects. The memory components or memories can be either volatile memory or non volatile memory or can include both volatile and non volatile memory. In addition the memory components or memories can be removable or non removable and or internal or external to a computing device or component. Examples of various types of non transitory storage media can include hard disc drives zip drives CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory cards or other types of memory cards cartridges or any other non transitory medium suitable to retain the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

As an illustration non volatile memory can include ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include RAM which can act as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The disclosed memory components or memories of the operational or computational environments described herein are intended to include one or more of these and or any other suitable types of memory.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain implementations could include while other implementations do not include certain features elements and or operations. Thus such conditional language generally is not intended to imply that features elements and or operations are in any way required for one or more implementations or that one or more implementations necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or operations are included or are to be performed in any particular implementation.

What has been described herein in the present specification and annexed drawings includes examples of embodiments of embedded reversible covers for an electronic device in accordance with one or more aspects of this disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of elements and or methodologies for purposes of describing the various features of the disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Accordingly it may be apparent that various modifications can be made to the disclosure without departing from the scope or spirit thereof. In addition or in the alternative other embodiments of the disclosure may be apparent from consideration of the specification and annexed drawings and practice of the disclosure as presented herein. It is intended that the examples put forward in the specification and annexed drawings be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

