---

title: Substrate processing apparatus, method of manufacturing semiconductor device, and non-transitory computer-readable recording medium
abstract: A substrate processing apparatus includes: a reaction tube configured to accommodate a plurality of substrates and to be supplied with a gas generated by vaporizing or turning into mist a solution containing a reactant in a solvent; a lid configured to close the reaction tube; a first heater configured to heat the plurality of substrates; a thermal conductor placed on the lid on an upper surface thereof; a second heater placed outside the reaction tube around a side thereof, the second heater being configured to heat the gas flowing near the lid; and a heating element placed on the lid on a lower surface thereof, the heating element configured to heat the lid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09587313&OS=09587313&RS=09587313
owner: HITACHI KOKUSAI ELECTRIC INC.
number: 09587313
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150126
---
The present invention relates to a substrate processing apparatus a method of manufacturing a semiconductor device and a non transitory computer readable recording medium.

Traditional manufacturing of semiconductor devices such as dynamic random access memories DRAMs includes in some cases a process where a processing gas is supplied into a reaction tube in which a substrate has been loaded to form an oxide film on a surface of the substrate. Such a process is performed in a substrate processing apparatus including a reaction tube that accommodates a substrate for processing a supply unit that supplies a processing gas generated by vaporizing a liquid material onto the substrate in the reaction tube and a heater that heats the substrate in the reaction tube.

The type of substrate processing apparatus described above may pose a problem that the reaction tube may have an internal area with lower temperatures where it is less likely to be heated by the heater. When the processing gas passes through such a low temperature area the gas would be cooled to a temperature below its vaporizing point to re liquefy.

An object of the invention is to provide a technique that is capable of suppressing re liquefaction of a processing gas in a reaction tube.

In an aspect of the invention there is provided a substrate processing apparatus including a reaction tube configured to accommodate a plurality of substrates and to be supplied with a gas generated by one of vaporizing or turning into mist a solution containing a reactant dissolved in a solvent a lid configured to close the reaction tube a first heater configured to heat the plurality of substrates a thermal conductor placed on the lid on an upper surface thereof a second heater placed outside the reaction tube around a side thereof the second heater being configured to heat the gas flowing near the lid and a heating element placed on the lid on a lower surface thereof the heating element being configured to heat the lid.

The technique according to the invention achieves improved manufacturing quality of the semiconductor device with improved manufacturing throughput.

An arrangement of a substrate processing apparatus according to an embodiment will be described below with reference to . is a schematic diagram of an arrangement of the substrate processing apparatus according to this embodiment providing a longitudinal section of a processing furnace . is a schematic longitudinal sectional view of the processing furnace provided in the substrate processing apparatus according to the embodiment. In the substrate processing apparatus a process for manufacturing for example a semiconductor device is performed.

As illustrated in a processing furnace includes a reaction tube which serves as a processing vessel. The reaction tube is made of a heat resistant material such as quartz SiO2 and silicon carbide SiC and formed into a cylinder with its upper and lower ends open. A processing chamber formed in the hollow of the reaction tube is configured to accommodate a plurality of wafers or substrates held horizontally and in multiple and vertical stages by a boat which will be described hereinafter.

A sealing cap is provided under the reaction tube to serve as a furnace opening lid capable of sealing closing the lower end opening furnace opening of the reaction tube in a gastight manner.

The sealing cap is vertically under the reaction tube and abuts the lower end of the reaction tube . The sealing cap is shaped into a disc.

A boat which serves as a substrate retainer retains the plurality of wafers in the multiple stages. The boat includes a plurality of poles three for example for retaining the plurality of wafers . The plurality of poles is disposed between a bottom plate and a top plate . The wafers are retained by the poles horizontally and in the multiple stages set in a direction of the tube axis with the center of each wafer aligned. The top plate is shaped to have a diameter larger than the maximum outer diameters of the wafers to be retained by the boat .

The poles and the top plate may be made with a non metallic material having high thermal conductivity such as silicon carbide SiC aluminum oxide AlO aluminum nitride AlN silicon nitride SiN and zirconium oxide ZrO . A non metallic material with thermal conductivity not less than 10 W mK in particular may be used. The poles may be made with metal such as stainless steel SUS or quartz. In a case where the poles and the top plate are made with metal the metal materials are preferably coated with Teflon registered trademark .

A thermal insulator which is made of a heat resistant material such as quartz and silicon carbide SiC is provided under the boat so that heat is less likely to be transferred from a first heater toward the sealing cap . The thermal insulator provides thermal insulation and also serves as a retainer to retain the boat . While the thermal insulator includes a plurality of disc shaped thermal insulation boards held horizontally and in multiple stages as illustrated the thermal insulator may be a cylindrical shaped quartz cap for example. The thermal insulator may be a component of the boat .

A boat elevator is provided under the reaction tube as an elevating mechanism to raise and lower the boat for carrying the boat into and out of the reaction tube . The boat elevator includes the sealing cap designed to seal the furnace opening when the boat has been raised by the boat elevator.

A boat rotating mechanism to rotate the boat is provided at the sealing cap on the side opposite to the processing chamber . The boat rotating mechanism includes a rotating shaft that passes through the sealing cap to be connected to the boat . The rotating shaft is configured to rotate the boat and thereby rotate the wafers .

The first heater which is for heating the wafers in the reaction tube is provided outside the reaction tube surrounding side wall surfaces of the reaction tube concentrically. The first heater is supported by a heater base . As illustrated in the first heater includes a first heater unit a second heater unit a third heater unit and a fourth heater unit . The heater units and are provided along the direction of stacking the wafers in the reaction tube .

A first temperature sensor a second temperature sensor a third temperature sensor and a fourth temperature sensor which may be formed with thermocouples are provided in the reaction tube at places corresponding to the respective heater units. The temperature sensors are placed between the reaction tube and the boat . Each of the temperature sensors may be positioned so as to detect the temperature of one of wafers located at the middle of wafers to be heated by each heater unit.

The first heater and the temperature sensors are electrically connected to a controller which will be described hereinafter. The controller controls power to be supplied to the first heater unit the second heater unit the third heater unit and the fourth heater unit at predetermined timings on the basis of temperature information detected by the temperature sensors so that the wafers in the reaction tube have predetermined temperatures. The temperatures of the first heater unit the second heater unit the third heater unit and the fourth heater unit are set and adjusted individually in the manner described above.

As illustrated in a supply nozzle in which a reactant passes is provided between the reaction tube and the first heater . The reactant herein refers to a substance supplied onto the wafers in the reaction tube to react with the wafers . Hydrogen peroxide H2O2 which is generally used as an oxidant or water H2O may be used to serve as a reactant. The supply nozzle is made with for example quartz which has low thermal conductivity. The supply nozzle may have a double pipe structure. The supply nozzle is routed along the exterior wall of the side of the reaction tube . The supply nozzle has a gastight upper end downstream end placed at the top upper end opening of the reaction tube . A portion of the supply nozzle located at the upper end opening of the reaction tube has a plurality of supply holes from an upstream side to a downstream side of the portion of the supply nozzle see . The supply holes are formed so that the reactant supplied in the reaction tube is sprayed onto the top plate of the boat accommodated in the reaction tube .

The supply nozzle has an upstream end connected to a downstream end of a reactant supply pipe which supplies the reactant. The reactant supply pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a reactant supply tank a liquid mass flow controller LMFC which serves as a liquid flow rate controller a liquid flow rate control unit a valve which is an opening closing valve a separator and a valve which is an opening closing valve. A sub heater is provided at a position on the reactant supply pipe at least at the downstream side of the valve .

The reactant supply tank is connected at its upper portion to a downstream end of a pressure feed gas supply pipe which supplies a pressure feed gas. The pressure feed gas supply pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a pressure feed gas source a mass flow controller MFC which serves as a flow rate controller flow rate control unit and a valve which is an opening closing valve.

An inert gas supply pipe is connected to the reactant supply pipe at a position between the valve and the separator . The inert gas supply pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction an inert gas source a mass flow controller MFC which serves as a flow rate controller flow rate control unit and a valve which is an opening closing valve.

A first gas supply pipe is connected at its downstream end to the reactant supply pipe at a position at the downstream side of the valve . The first gas supply pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a material gas source a mass flow controller MFC which serves as a flow rate controller flow rate control unit and a valve which is an opening closing valve. A sub heater is provided at a position on the first gas supply pipe at least at the downstream side of the valve . A second gas supply pipe is connected at its downstream end to the first gas supply pipe at a position at the downstream side of the valve . The second gas supply pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a material gas source a mass flow controller MFC which serves as a flow rate controller flow rate control unit and a valve which is an opening closing valve. A sub heater is provided at a position on the second gas supply pipe at least at the downstream side of the valve

The reactant supply pipe the liquid mass flow controller the valve the separator the valve and the supply nozzle primarily constitute a reactant supply system. The reactant supply tank the pressure feed gas supply pipe the pressure feed gas source the mass flow controller and the valve may be construed as part of the reactant supply system. The reactant supply system primarily constitutes a supply module.

Additionally the inert gas supply pipe the mass flow controller and the valve primarily constitute an inert gas supply system. The inert gas source the reactant supply pipe the separator the valve and the supply nozzle may be construed as part of the inert gas supply system. Additionally the first gas supply pipe the mass flow controller and the valve primarily constitute a first processing gas supply system. The material gas source the reactant supply pipe and the supply nozzle may be construed as part of the first processing gas supply system. Additionally the second gas supply pipe the mass flow controller and the valve constitute a second processing gas supply system. The material gas source the reactant supply pipe and the first gas supply pipe and the supply nozzle may be construed as part of the second processing gas supply system. The inert gas supply system the first processing gas supply system and the second processing gas supply system may be construed as part of the supply module.

A third heater is provided above the reaction tube . While the third heater provided outside the reaction tube is described as an example herein the third heater may be provided in the reaction tube . The third heater is configured to heat the top plate of the boat . A lamp heater unit may be used as the third heater . The third heater is electrically connected to the controller to be described hereinafter. The controller controls power to be supplied to the third heater at a predetermined timing so that the top plate of the boat has predetermined temperatures. The third heater and the top plate primarily constitute a state converter. The state converter converts for example a reactant in the liquid state supplied in the reaction tube and a liquid material containing a reactant dissolved in a solvent to the gaseous state. A reactant in the liquid state and a liquid material may be generically referred to simply as a reactant in the liquid state hereinafter.

An operation to vaporize for example a reactant in the liquid state to obtain a processing gas vaporized gas will now be described. The pressure feed gas supply pipe supplies a pressure feed gas via the mass flow controller and the valve to the reactant supply tank . This feeds a liquid material stored in the reactant supply tank into the reactant supply pipe . The liquid material fed from the reactant supply tank into the reactant supply pipe is supplied via the liquid mass flow controller the valve the separator the valve and the supply nozzle into the reaction tube . The liquid material supplied into the reaction tube comes in contact with the top plate which has been heated by the third heater to vaporize or turn into mist to form the processing gas vaporized gas or mist gas . The processing gas is supplied to the wafers in the reaction tube to perform predetermined substrate processing on the wafers .

To promote the vaporization of the reactant in the liquid state the reactant in the liquid state flowing in the reactant supply pipe may be preheated by the sub heater . In this manner the reactant in the liquid state can be supplied to the reaction tube in a condition more favorable for the vaporization.

The reaction tube is connected to an upstream end of a first exhaust pipe to exhaust an atmosphere from the inside of the reaction tube the inside of the processing chamber . The first exhaust pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a pressure sensor which serves as a pressure sensing unit to detect the pressure in the reaction tube an auto pressure controller APC valve which serves as a pressure regulator pressure regulating unit and a vacuum pump which serves as a vacuum exhausting device. The first exhaust pipe is configured in a manner such that the reaction tube can be evacuated by the vacuum pump to have a predetermined internal pressure the degree of vacuum . The APC valve is an opening closing valve that can be opened or closed to evacuate or stop evacuating the reaction tube and enables its valve opening to be adjusted to regulate the pressure.

A second exhaust pipe is connected at its upstream end to the first exhaust pipe at a position at the upstream side of the APC valve . The second exhaust pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a valve which is an opening closing valve a separator which separates liquids and gases from an exhaust gas exhausted from the reaction tube and a vacuum pump which serves as a vacuum exhausting device. A third exhaust pipe which is connected at its upstream end to the separator is provided with a liquid collecting tank . A gas chromatograph may be used as the separator .

The first exhaust pipe the second exhaust pipe the separator the liquid collecting tank the APC valve the valve and the pressure sensor primarily constitute an exhaust module. The vacuum pump and the vacuum pump may be construed as part of the exhaust module.

As illustrated in a thermal insulating member is provided around the outer circumference of the first heater covering the reaction tube and the first heater . The thermal insulating member includes a side thermal insulating member which surrounds the side wall of the reaction tube and a top thermal insulating member which covers the upper end of the reaction tube . The side thermal insulating member and the top thermal insulating member are connected in a gastight manner. The side thermal insulating member and the top thermal insulating member may be formed in one piece to form the thermal insulating member . The thermal insulating member is made with a heat resistant material such as quartz and silicon carbide.

A supply port is formed below the side thermal insulating member to supply a cooling gas. While the supply port is formed with a lower end of the side thermal insulating member and the heater base in the embodiment the supply port may be formed by providing an opening in the side thermal insulating member . The supply port is connected to a downstream end of a cooling gas supply pipe . The cooling gas supply pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a cooling gas source a mass flow controller MFC which is a flow rate controller flow rate control unit and a shutter which is a shut off valve.

The cooling gas supply pipe and the mass flow controller primarily constitute a cooling gas supply system. The cooling gas source and the shutter may be construed as part of the cooling gas supply system.

The top thermal insulating member is connected to an upstream end of a cooling gas exhaust pipe to exhaust an atmosphere from a space between the reaction tube and the thermal insulating member . The cooling gas exhaust pipe is provided with in the order in its downstream direction a shutter which is a shut off valve a radiator which allows cooling water or the like to be circulated to cool an exhaust gas flowing in the cooling gas exhaust pipe a shutter which is a shut off valve a blower which enables the exhaust gas to flow in the cooling gas exhaust pipe from its upstream side to its downstream side and an exhaust mechanism including an exhaust port through which the exhaust gas is exhausted from the processing furnace to the outside. The blower is connected to a blower rotating mechanism such as an inverter to rotate the blower .

The cooling gas exhaust pipe the radiator the blower and the exhaust mechanism. primarily constitute a cooling gas exhaust system that exhaust the atmosphere in the space between the thermal insulating member and the reaction tube . The shutter and the shutter may be construed as part of the cooling gas exhaust system. The cooling gas supply system and the cooling gas exhaust system constitute the reaction tube cooling module.

When hydrogen peroxide for example is used as a reactant to generate a hydrogen peroxide gas by vaporizing or turning into mist a hydrogen peroxide solution which is the liquid state of the hydrogen peroxide so that the hydrogen peroxide gas is used as a processing gas the hydrogen peroxide gas may be cooled in the reaction tube to a temperature below the vaporizing point of hydrogen peroxide to re liquefy in some cases.

Such re liquefaction of a hydrogen peroxide gas often occurs outside an area heated by the first heater in the reaction tube . Since the first heater is provided to heat the wafers in the reaction tube as described above an area accommodating the wafers in the reaction tube is heated by the first heater . An area outside the area accommodating the wafers in the reaction tube however is less likely to be heated by the first heater . As a result the hydrogen peroxide gas is cooled when passing through a low temperature area generated in the area outside the area heated by the first heater in the reaction tube resulting in the re liquefaction. In a reference example illustrated in a processing furnace provided in a traditional substrate processing apparatus includes no heater to heat a processing gas flowing in a reaction tube at a downstream side of the reaction tube i.e. in an area accommodating a thermal insulator in the reaction tube . This sometimes causes the processing gas to re liquefy in the reaction tube at the downstream side.

The liquid resulting from the re liquefaction of the hydrogen peroxide gas also simply referred to as liquid hereinafter may collect in the reaction tube at its bottom on an upper surface of a sealing cap . This causes the re liquefied hydrogen peroxide to react with the sealing cap to inflict damage on the sealing cap .

Additionally when the sealing cap is lowered to open the furnace opening the lower end opening of the reaction tube in order to unload the boat to the outside of the reaction tube the liquid if having collected on the sealing cap may come down from the reaction tube through the furnace opening to the outside of the reaction tube . This may result in damage to peripheral members of the furnace opening of the processing furnace and inhibit an operator and the like from safely entering an area in proximity to the processing furnace .

A hydrogen peroxide solution is manufactured with for example hydrogen peroxide H2O2 as a material reactant which is solid or liquid at ordinary temperatures and water H2O as a solvent by dissolving the hydrogen peroxide in the water. In other words the hydrogen peroxide solution is made of hydrogen peroxide and water which have mutually different vaporizing points. Thus a liquid resulting from the re liquefaction of a hydrogen peroxide gas may have a higher concentration of the hydrogen peroxide than the hydrogen peroxide solution to be supplied in the reaction tube .

The liquid resulting from the re liquefaction of the hydrogen peroxide gas may be vaporized again in the reaction tube to generate a re vaporized gas. Since hydrogen peroxide and water have mutually different vaporizing points as described above the re vaporized gas may have a higher concentration of the hydrogen peroxide than the hydrogen peroxide gas to be supplied onto the wafers .

Thus the reaction tube containing the re vaporized gas may have nonuniform concentrations of hydrogen peroxide gas. This may result in nonuniformity in the substrate processing among the wafers in the reaction tube leading to variability in substrate processing characteristics. This may also lead to nonuniformity in the substrate processing among different lots.

Additionally repeated re liquefaction and revaporization of the hydrogen peroxide may increase the concentration of the hydrogen peroxide. This may result in higher probability of explosion or combustion due to the increased concentration of the hydrogen peroxide solution.

In light of this a second heater is provided as illustrated in to heat the area outside the area heated by the first heater . The second heater is placed outside around the outer circumference of a lower portion of the reaction tube surrounding side wall surfaces of the reaction tube concentrically.

The second heater may include a resistance heating body and or a radiation heating body. The resistance heating body may be made with a Nichrome wire a Kanthal wire SiC or tungsten. The radiation heating body preferably radiates mid wavelength infrared which is likely to be absorbed by water molecules H2O . The radiation heating body is formed with for example a Kanthal wire heater a carbon heater a SiC heater a lamp heater including tungsten a halogen lamp or the like.

The second heater is configured to heat the hydrogen peroxide gas which flows toward the exhaust module from the top at an upstream side to the bottom at a downstream side of the reaction tube at the downstream side in the reaction tube i.e. in an area accommodating the thermal insulator in the reaction tube . Additionally the second heater is configured to heat the sealing cap that seals the lower end opening of the reaction tube the lower portion of the reaction tube and internal members of the reaction tube near the lower portion thereof such as the thermal insulator positioned at the bottom of the reaction tube therein. In other words the second heater is positioned below the bottom plate with the boat loaded in the processing chamber .

As illustrated in a heating element may be provided on a member that seals the lower end opening of the reaction tube i.e. the sealing cap . As illustrated in heating elements may be provided for example outside the sealing cap . As illustrated in two heating elements may be provided with one outside the lower portion of the reaction tube and the other inside the sealing cap . Furthermore three or more heating elements may be provided.

The second heater is electrically connected to the controller which will be described hereinafter. The controller is configured to control power to be supplied to the second heater at a predetermined timing to maintain temperatures from 150 C. to 170 C. for example at which the liquefaction of the processing gas hydrogen peroxide gas in the reaction tube can be suppressed.

As illustrated in the controller which is a control unit control means is configured as a computer including a central processing unit CPU a random access memory RAM a memory device and an I O port . The RAM the memory device and the I O port are configured to exchange data via an internal bus with the CPU . The controller is connected to an input output device configured as for example a touch panel.

The memory device is configured with for example a flash memory and a hard disk drive HDD . The memory device stores a control program that controls an operation of the substrate processing apparatus a process recipe describing a procedure and a condition for the substrate processing to be described hereinafter and the like in a readable manner. The process recipe which is configured to enable the controller to execute procedures in a substrate treatment process to be described hereinafter to obtain a predetermined result serves as a program. The process recipe and the control program may be generically referred to simply as a program hereinafter. The term program as used herein may include a process recipe only a control program only or the both. The RAM serves as a memory area work area in which a program and data read by the CPU are temporarily retained.

The I O port is connected to the liquid mass flow controller the mass flow controllers and the valves and the shutters and the APC valve the first heater the second heater the third heater the heating element the blower rotating mechanism the first temperature sensor the second temperature sensor the third temperature sensor the fourth temperature sensor the boat rotating mechanism and the like.

The CPU reads a control program from the memory device to execute it and reads a process recipe from the memory device in response to an operation command input into the input output device . The CPU then controls an operation of the liquid mass flow controller to adjust the flow rate of a liquid material operations of the mass flow controllers and to adjust the flow rates of respective gases opening closing operations of the valves and shut off operations of the shutters and an operation of the APC valve to adjust its opening an operation to adjust the temperature of the first heater on the basis of the first temperature sensor the second temperature sensor the third temperature sensor and the fourth temperature sensor operations to adjust the temperatures of the second heater and the third heater on the basis of the temperature sensors starting and stopping of the vacuum pumps and an operation to adjust the rotating speed of the blower rotating mechanism an operation to adjust the rotating speed of the boat rotating mechanism and the like according to the process recipe that has been read.

The controller may be a dedicated computer or a general purpose computer. For example an external memory device a magnetic disk such as a magnetic tape a flexible disk and a hard disk drive an optical disk such as a CD and a DVD a magneto optical disk such as an MO and a semiconductor memory such as a USB flash drive and a memory card for example having stored the program may be used to install the program in a general purpose computer in order to configure the controller according to the embodiment. Note that a program may be installed in a computer in any other way than via the external memory device . For example a program may be supplied via communication means such as the Internet and a dedicated line without the use of the external memory device . The memory device and the external memory device are each configured as a non transitory computer readable recording medium. The memory device and the external memory device may be each generically referred to simply as non transitory computer readable recording medium herein. The term non transitory computer readable recording medium as used herein may include the memory device only the external memory device only or the both.

With reference to a substrate treatment process performed as part of the manufacturing process of a semiconductor device according to the embodiment will now be described. This process is performed in the substrate processing apparatus described above. As an exemplified substrate treatment process in the embodiment a process modification process will be described which modifies oxidizes a Si film formed on each of the wafers or the substrates with hydrogen peroxide serving as a reactant to obtain a SiO film. Note that operations of the components of the substrate processing apparatus are controlled by the controller in the description hereinafter.

The substrates used as the wafers each have features or a recess protrusion structure with a silicon Si containing film formed in a recess groove . The silicon containing film is formed by supplying a material containing silicon to fill the recess groove . The silicon containing film contains the Si element the nitrogen N element and the hydrogen H element and the film in some cases also contains carbon C and other impurities. The material containing silicon is preferably a material containing a silazane bond Si N bond and more preferably polysilazane SiH2NH . The substrate having features refers to a silicon substrate having a structure with a high aspect ratio such as vertically deep grooves recesses or laterally narrow grooves recesses with for example an approximately 10 nm to 50 nm width.

The polysilazane is a material that replaces SOG used traditionally. The polysilazane can be obtained through a catalytic reaction between for example dichlorosilane trichlorosilane and ammonia and it is applied onto a substrate with a spin coater to form a thin film. The thickness of the film is adjusted through the molecular weight and viscosity of the polysilazane and the rotation speed of the coater. By supplying water to the polysilazane the silicon oxide film can be formed.

A hydrogen peroxide solution has higher activation energy and more oxygen atoms in one molecule than water vapor water H2O yielding high oxidative power. Thus the use of the hydrogen peroxide gas as the processing gas allows oxygen atoms O to reach the depths of the films formed in the grooves the bottoms of the grooves of the wafers . This achieves greater uniformity in the modification between the surfaces and the depths of the films of the wafers . In other words greater uniformity in the substrate processing can be achieved in this manner between the surfaces and the depths of the films of the wafers leading to uniform properties such as permittivity of the wafers after the modification. Additionally the modification process can be performed at low temperatures from 40 C. to 100 C. and thereby performance degradation of circuits formed on the wafers can be suppressed. As used in the description of the embodiment hydrogen peroxide used as reactant vaporized or turned into mist i.e. the hydrogen peroxide in the gaseous state is referred to as a hydrogen peroxide gas and the hydrogen peroxide in the liquid state is referred to as a hydrogen peroxide solution.

A specified number of the wafers is loaded into the boat wafer charging . The boat retaining the plurality of wafers is then raised with the boat elevator to be loaded into the reaction tube in the processing chamber boat loading . This seals the furnace opening which is the opening of the processing furnace with the sealing cap .

The reaction tube is evacuated with the vacuum pump and or the vacuum pump so as to achieve a desired internal pressure the degree of vacuum . The internal pressure of the reaction tube is measured with the pressure sensor and a resultant measured pressure is used to perform feedback control on the opening of the APC valve and the opening closing of the valve pressure regulation .

The wafers accommodated in the reaction tube are heated with the first heater so as to achieve desired temperatures from 40 C. to 100 C. for example . To achieve the desired temperatures of the wafers in the reaction tube the temperature information detected by the first temperature sensor the second temperature sensor the third temperature sensor and the fourth temperature sensor is used to perform feedback control on the power to be supplied to the first heater unit the second heater unit the third heater unit and the fourth heater unit included in the first heater temperature adjustment . The control is performed so that the first heater unit the second heater unit the third heater unit and the fourth heater unit are provided with an identical temperature setting. Furthermore the second heater is controlled so that the reaction tube the lower portion of the reaction tube in particular has internal temperatures that allow no re liquefaction of a hydrogen peroxide gas.

As the wafers are being heated the boat rotating mechanism is actuated to start rotating the boat . The rotating speed of the boat is controlled by the controller . The boat is rotated at all times at least until a modification process S to be described hereinafter is finished.

When the wafers have achieved the desired temperatures and the boat has achieved a desired rotating speed the reactant supply pipe starts supplying a hydrogen peroxide solution into the reaction tube . To do so the valves and are closed and the valve is opened. Then the pressure feed gas source supplies a pressure feed gas into the reactant supply tank with its flow rate controlled by the mass flow controller . The valves and are opened to allow the hydrogen peroxide solution stored in the reactant supply tank to flow in the reactant supply pipe with its flow rate controlled by the liquid mass flow controller through the separator the supply nozzle and the supply holes into the reaction tube . An inert gas such as nitrogen N2 gas and a rare gas such as He gas Ne gas and Ar gas may be used as the pressure feed gas.

The hydrogen peroxide solution not a hydrogen peroxide gas is passed through the supply nozzle for a reason described below. The passage of a hydrogen peroxide gas through the supply nozzle may result in variations in concentration of the hydrogen peroxide gas due to the heat condition of the supply nozzle . This may lead to difficulty in performing the substrate processing with good reproducibility. Additionally the passage of a hydrogen peroxide gas with a high concentration of hydrogen peroxide through the supply nozzle may corrode the supply nozzle . Foreign substances generated from the corrosion may adversely affect the substrate processing such as film processing. Thus the hydrogen peroxide solution is passed through the supply nozzle in the embodiment.

The hydrogen peroxide solution supplied through the supply nozzle into the reaction tube comes in contact with the top plate of the boat heated by the third heater to generate a hydrogen peroxide gas i.e. hydrogen peroxide solution gas which is the processing gas.

The hydrogen peroxide gas is supplied onto the wafers to modify the Si films formed on the wafers through oxidation reaction between the hydrogen peroxide gas and the surfaces of the wafers to obtain the SiO films.

As the hydrogen peroxide solution is being supplied into the reaction tube an exhaust gas is exhausted through the vacuum pump and the liquid collecting tank . To do so the APC valve is closed and the valve is opened so that the exhaust gas from the reaction tube is passed through the first exhaust pipe and then the second exhaust pipe into the separator . The separator separates a liquid containing the hydrogen peroxide and a gas containing no hydrogen peroxide from the exhaust gas and allows the gas to be exhausted through the vacuum pump and the liquid to be collected in the liquid collecting tank .

Note that when the hydrogen peroxide solution is supplied into the reaction tube the valve and the APC valve may be closed to pressurize the reaction tube . This allows the atmosphere of the hydrogen peroxide solution to be uniform in the reaction tube .

After the elapse of a predetermined period of time the valves and are closed to stop supplying the hydrogen peroxide solution to the reaction tube .

When the modification process S is finished the APC valve is closed and the valve is opened to evacuate the reaction tube and exhaust the remainder of the hydrogen peroxide gas from the reaction tube . To do so the valve is closed and the valves and are opened so that N2 gas inert gas serving as a purge gas is supplied with its flow rate controlled by the mass flow controller through the inert gas supply pipe and the supply nozzle into the reaction tube . An inert gas such as nitrogen N2 gas and a rare gas such as He gas Ne gas and Ar gas may be used as the purge gas. In this manner the exhausting of the residual gas from the reaction tube can be promoted. Additionally the passage of the N2 gas through the supply nozzle can force the remainder of the hydrogen peroxide solution the hydrogen peroxide in the liquid state out of the supply nozzle so that the hydrogen peroxide solution is removed. During this process the opening of the APC valve and the opening closing of the valve may be adjusted to exhaust the gases through the vacuum pump

When the purge process S is finished the valve and or the APC valve are is opened to restore an atmospheric pressure in the reaction tube and while doing so the temperatures of the wafers are allowed to drop to predetermined temperatures around room temperatures . Specifically with the valve kept open the N2 gas which is an inert gas is supplied into the reaction tube to increase the pressure in the reaction tube to the atmospheric pressure. The power to be supplied to the first heater and the third heater is controlled to allow the temperatures of the wafers to drop.

While the temperatures of the wafers are allowed to drop the shutters and may be opened with the blower operating so that a cooling gas is supplied with its flow rate controlled by the mass flow controller through the cooling gas supply pipe into the space between the reaction tube and the thermal insulating member to be exhausted through the cooling gas exhaust pipe . N2 gas a rare gas such as He gas Ne gas and Ar gas or air may be used alone or mixed as the cooling gas. In this manner the space can be cooled rapidly allowing the reaction tube and the first heater positioned in the space to be cooled in a short period of time. The temperatures of the wafers in the reaction tube are also allowed to drop in a short period of time.

Alternatively N2 gas may be supplied through the cooling gas supply pipe into the space with the shutters and closed until the space is filled with the cooling gas and cooled and then the shutters and are opened with the blower operating to allow the cooling gas in the space to be exhausted through the cooling gas exhaust pipe .

Subsequently the sealing cap is lowered by the boat elevator to open the lower end of the reaction tube and the processed wafers as retained by the boat are unloaded through the lower end of the reaction tube to the outside of the reaction tube processing chamber boat unloading . Then the processed wafers are removed from the boat wafer discharging to complete the substrate treatment process according to the embodiment.

As described above through the heating of the reaction tube with the first heater and the second heater the low temperature areas in the reaction tube are reduced and thus the cooling of the hydrogen peroxide gas in the reaction tube below the vaporizing point can be suppressed. Hence the re liquefaction of the hydrogen peroxide gas in the reaction tube can be suppressed.

Thus the collecting of the liquid resulting from the re liquefaction of the hydrogen peroxide gas on the sealing cap can be reduced. This can reduce the reacting of the sealing cap with the hydrogen peroxide contained in the liquid and resulting damage to the sealing cap . Additionally when the sealing cap is lowered to open the furnace opening the lower end opening of the reaction tube in order to unload the boat to the outside of the reaction tube the coming down of the liquid having collected on the sealing cap through the furnace opening to the outside of the reaction tube can be reduced. As a result damage to the peripheral members of the processing furnace due to the hydrogen peroxide can be reduced. Additionally an operator and the like can enter an area in proximity to the processing furnace safely.

Additionally the vaporizing in the reaction tube of the liquid resulting from the re liquefaction of the hydrogen peroxide gas and the generating of a re vaporized gas having a high concentration of hydrogen peroxide can be reduced. Thus a uniform concentration of the hydrogen peroxide solution in the reaction tube can be achieved leading to uniformity in the substrate processing among the wafers in the reaction tube and among different lots.

Additionally the probability of explosion or combustion due to the increased concentration of the hydrogen peroxide solution is reduced because of a reduced chance of increasing the concentration of the hydrogen peroxide solution.

Additionally as illustrated in a sub heater may be provided at a position on the first exhaust pipe at least at the upstream side of the APC valve to serve as a heater to heat the first exhaust pipe . By heating the sub heater to heat the first exhaust pipe the low temperature areas in the reaction tube are further reduced and thus the re liquefaction of the hydrogen peroxide gas in the reaction tube can be suppressed. Note that the sub heater may be construed as part of the second heater .

Although the invention has been described based on an embodiment the invention is not limited thereto and various modifications are possible without departing from the spirit of the invention.

A hydrogen peroxide gas is used as the processing gas in the embodiment described above but the invention is not limited thereto. The processing gas may be a gas generated by vaporizing a solution a reactant in the liquid state containing a material the reactant which is solid or liquid at ordinary temperatures dissolved in a solvent. Additionally use of a material reactant having a vaporizing point different from that of a solvent facilitates producing the effects of the embodiment described above. Additionally the vaporized gas which serves as the processing gas is not limited to a gas having increased concentration of a material after the re liquefaction and may be a gas having reduced concentration of a material after the re liquefaction. With such a processing gas the uniformity can be achieved in the concentration of the processing gas in the reaction tube .

The oxidant is not limited to the hydrogen peroxide gas and may be gaseous water vapor H2O generated by heating a gas containing the hydrogen element H hydrogen containing gas such as hydrogen H2 gas and a gas containing the oxygen element O oxygen containing gas such as oxygen O2 gas. To generate such water vapor the valves and may be closed and the valves and may be opened to supply the H2 gas and the O2 gas with their flow rates controlled by the mass flow controllers and respectively through the first gas supply pipe and the second gas supply pipe respectively into the reaction tube . The H2 gas and the O2 gas supplied into the reaction tube then come in contact with the top plate of the boat heated by the third heater to turn into the water vapor which is supplied to the wafers to modify the Si films on the wafers to SiO films. Ozone O3 gas or water vapor H2O for example may be used as the oxygen containing gas in place of the O2 gas. Note however that the hydrogen peroxide is different from the water vapor water H2O in that it has higher activation energy and more oxygen atoms in one molecule than the water vapor yielding high oxidative power. Thus the use of the hydrogen peroxide gas is advantageous in that it allows oxygen atoms O to reach the depths of the films formed on the grooves the bottoms of the grooves of the wafers . Additionally the use of the hydrogen peroxide enables the modification process to be performed at low temperatures from 40 C. to 100 C. and thereby performance degradation of circuits formed on the wafers circuits made with a material aluminum for example susceptible to high temperature processing in particular can be suppressed.

In a case where a gas generated by vaporizing water H2O water vapor gas is used as the oxidant the gas processing gas supplied onto the wafers may contain H2O molecules not bonded and clusters of some H2O molecules bonded together. Additionally when water H2O in the liquid state is converted to the gaseous state the water may be split into unbonded H2O molecules or into clusters of some H2O molecules bonded. The gas may include mist formed with such clusters gathered together.

In a case where a hydrogen peroxide solution H2O2 is used as the oxidant the gas supplied onto the wafers may similarly contain H2O2 molecules not bonded and clusters of some H2O2 molecules bond together. Additionally when the hydrogen peroxide solution H2O2 is turned to the hydrogen peroxide gas the solution may be split into unbonded H2O2 molecules or into clusters of some H2O2 molecules bonded. The gas may include mist formed with such clusters gathered together.

A hydrogen peroxide gas which serves as the processing gas is generated in the reaction tube in the embodiment described above but the invention is not limited thereto. A hydrogen peroxide gas may be generated through vaporization outside the reaction tube before it is supplied through the supply nozzle into the reaction tube . This allows the atmosphere of the hydrogen peroxide gas in the reaction tube to be further uniform. Note however that the hydrogen peroxide gas may re liquefy in the supply nozzle during the passage therein in this case. The hydrogen peroxide gas would often build up at a curve bend and a joint in the supply nozzle to re liquefy. As a result a liquid resulting from the re liquefaction in the supply nozzle may damage the inside of the supply nozzle .

The processing furnace described above may be provided with a first external temperature sensor a second external temperature sensor a third external temperature sensor and a fourth external temperature sensor see which may be thermocouples outside the reaction tube to serve as temperature sensing devices to detect the temperatures of the first heater unit the second heater unit the third heater unit and the fourth heater unit included in the first heater respectively. The first external temperature sensor the second external temperature sensor the third external temperature sensor and the fourth external temperature sensor are each connected to the controller . In this manner the temperatures of the first heater unit the second heater unit the third heater unit and the fourth heater unit can be monitored to see whether these units are each heated to a predetermined temperature on the basis of the temperature information detected by the first external temperature sensor the second external temperature sensor the third external temperature sensor and the fourth external temperature sensor

A process such as annealing heat processing may be performed between the purge process S and the temperature drop atmospheric pressure restoration process S according to the embodiment described above to for example heat the wafers to high temperatures from 800 C. to 1000 C. In a case where such annealing is performed the shutter may be opened during the temperature drop atmospheric pressure restoration process S as described above to supply N2 gas which serves as a cooling gas through the cooling gas supply pipe into the space between the reaction tube and the thermal insulating member while the temperatures of the wafers are allowed to drop. In this manner the reaction tube and the first heater positioned in the space can be cooled in a shorter period of time. As a result the subsequent modification process S can be started at an earlier time and thereby the throughput can be improved.

Although the substrate processing apparatus according to the embodiment described above includes the vertical processing furnace the invention is not limited thereto. The invention may also be suitably applied to other types of substrate processing apparatus including other types of processing furnace such as a single wafer processing type hot wall type and cold wall type processing furnaces and also to a type of substrate processing apparatus that excites a processing gas to process the wafers such as an MMT apparatus.

The sealing cap which serves as the lid may be made with a non metallic material having high thermal conductivity such as silicon carbide SiC aluminum oxide AlO aluminum nitride AlN silicon nitride SiN zirconium oxide ZrO . A non metallic material with thermal conductivity not less than 10 W mK in particular may be used. The sealing cap may be made with metal such as stainless steel SUS or quartz. In a case where the sealing cap is made with metal the metal materials are preferably coated with Teflon registered trademark .

In a case where the sealing cap is made with a material having high thermal conductivity the sealing cap is likely to be heated by the second heater and thus the temperature of the sealing cap can be raised in a shorter period of time. Hence when the hydrogen peroxide gas comes in contact with the sealing cap the cooling of the hydrogen peroxide gas below the vaporizing point and the resultant re liquefaction of the hydrogen peroxide gas on the sealing cap can be suppressed. In a case where the sealing cap is made with a non metallic material damage to the sealing cap can be reduced even if a liquid resulting from the re liquefaction has collected on the sealing cap .

By providing a sealing cap protector on the sealing cap made with a stainless steel the contact between the sealing cap and the hydrogen peroxide can be prevented and thus the reaction can be suppressed. A plate made with quartz for example can be provided as the sealing cap protector . By further providing a thermal conductor on the quartz plate on its upper surface as illustrated in the heating efficiency of the top of the sealing cap can be improved. The thermal conductor may be a non metallic plate made with the type of non metallic material described above. By placing the thermal conductor between the quartz plate and the sealing cap as illustrated in the heating efficiency of the sealing cap can be improved while the contact between the sealing cap and the hydrogen peroxide is suppressed. The thermal conductor may be provided on the sealing cap protector on its upper surface and or its lower surface. It is more preferable that the thermal conductor be placed on the sealing cap protector on its upper surface and that the heating elements be placed at a lower side of the sealing cap protector as illustrated in in order to improve the heating efficiency at the furnace opening. To prevent the wafers from being heated by the second heater when the wafers are loaded and unloaded into from the reaction tube the second heater is turned off so that the temperature of the surroundings of the second heater is allowed to drop. The provision of the thermal conductor and the heating elements however enables the sealing cap to be heated during the loading and unloading of the wafers reducing the period of time taken for the temperature at the furnace opening to rise and thereby improving the throughput.

Although the wafers with polysilazane films formed thereon are processed in the example described above the invention is not limited thereto. Silicon containing films formed through the CVD method can be oxidized through the processes described above.

In the substrate processing apparatus described in the supplementary note 1 the second heater preferably includes a resistance heating body and or a radiation heating body.

In the substrate processing apparatus described in the supplementary note 1 or 2 the second heater preferably heats an area outside an area heated by the first heater.

The substrate processing apparatus described in any one of the supplementary notes 1 to 3 preferably includes a control unit configured to control the temperature of the second heater so that the liquefaction of the reactant in the gaseous state in the processing vessel is suppressed.

the processing vessel is preferably a reaction tube configured to accommodate a plurality of substrates and

In the substrate processing apparatus described in any one of the supplementary notes 1 to 5 the second heater is preferably embedded in the lid.

In the substrate processing apparatus described in any one of the supplementary notes 1 to 6 the second heater is preferably placed outside and below the lid.

In the substrate processing apparatus described in any one of the supplementary notes 1 to 7 the lid is preferably made with a non metallic material having high thermal conductivity.

In the substrate processing apparatus described in any one of the supplementary notes 1 to 8 the reactant is preferably solid or liquid at ordinary temperatures and a solution containing the reactant dissolved in a solvent is vaporizable.

In the substrate processing apparatus described in the supplementary note 9 the reactant preferably has a vaporizing point different from that of the solvent.

In the substrate processing apparatus described in any one of the supplementary notes 1 to 10 the reactant in the liquid state is preferably supplied into the processing vessel to be vaporized into the gaseous state in the processing vessel.

in a case where the reactant in the liquid state is supplied into the processing vessel the reactant in the liquid state is preferably converted to the gaseous state by the state converter in the processing vessel and then flows in the processing vessel toward the exhaust module.

The substrate processing apparatus described in any one of the supplementary note 1 to 10 the reactant is preferably vaporized into the gaseous state outside the processing vessel and then supplied into the processing vessel.

heating with a second heater the reactant in the gaseous state flowing near a lid that closes the processing vessel.

The method of manufacturing a semiconductor device described in the supplementary note 14 preferably includes

a process of controlling the second heater so as to suppress the liquefaction of the reactant in the gaseous state in the processing vessel.

a program is provided the program being configured to cause a computer to execute a procedure of heating a substrate accommodated in a processing vessel with a first heater 

a procedure of heating with a second heater the reactant in the gaseous state flowing near a lid that closes the processing vessel.

a program is provided the program being configured to cause a computer to execute a procedure of loading a substrate into a processing vessel 

a procedure of heating the substrate in the processing vessel with a first heater and supplying a reactant through a supply module into the processing vessel to process the substrate and

a procedure of heating the reactant in the gaseous state in the processing vessel at its downstream side with a second heater so as to suppress the liquefaction in the processing vessel of the reactant in the gaseous state flowing from the supply module in the processing vessel to an exhaust module.

a non transitory computer readable recording medium is provided the recording medium having stored a program including 

a procedure of heating the substrate in the processing vessel with a first heater and supplying a reactant through a supply module into the processing vessel to process the substrate and

the reactant in the gaseous state is heated in the processing vessel at its downstream side with a second heater so that the liquefaction in the processing vessel of the reactant in the gaseous state flowing from the supply module in the processing vessel to an exhaust module is suppressed.

The substrate processing apparatus the method of manufacturing a semiconductor device and the non transitory computer readable recording medium according to the invention achieve improved manufacturing quality of the semiconductor device with improved manufacturing throughput.

