---

title: Method for encapsulating a chalcogenide material
abstract: Methods of depositing silicon nitride encapsulation layers by atomic layer deposition over memory devices including chalcogenide material are provided herein. Methods include using iodine-containing silicon precursors and depositing thermally using ammonia or hydrazine as a second reactant, or iodine-containing silicon precursors and depositing using a nitrogen-based or hydrogen-based plasma.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09601693&OS=09601693&RS=09601693
owner: Lam Research Corporation
number: 09601693
owner_city: Fremont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151106
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 232 243 filed Sep. 24 2015 and titled METHOD FOR ENCAPSULATING A CHALCOGENIDE MATERIAL WITH MINIMAL DAMAGE TO CHALCOGENIDE MATERIAL AND WITHOUT METAL CONTAMINATION WHILE MINIMIZING THERMAL CROSS TALK which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and for all purposes.

Semiconductor device fabrication may involve deposition of silicon nitride films. Silicon nitride thin films have unique physical chemical and mechanical properties and thus are used in a variety of applications. For example silicon nitride films may be used in diffusion barriers gate insulators sidewall spacers encapsulation layers strained films in transistors and the like. Conventional methods of depositing silicon nitride films may damage components of the process chamber where deposition is performed or may damage substrate materials.

Provided herein are methods of processing substrates. One aspect involves a method of encapsulating chalcogenide material by a providing a substrate to a chamber the substrate including one or more exposed layers of the chalcogenide material b exposing the substrate to a chlorine free iodine containing silicon precursor under conditions allowing the chlorine free iodine containing silicon precursor to adsorb onto the surface of the substrate thereby forming an adsorbed layer of the chlorine free iodine containing silicon precursor and c exposing the substrate to a second reactant to form a silicon nitride film on the chalcogenide material.

The chlorine free iodine containing silicon precursor may be any of diiodosilane tetraiodosilane and hexaiodosilane. In various embodiments the second reactant is any of ammonia and hydrazines and the silicon nitride may be deposited at a temperature less than about 300 C.

In some embodiments the method also includes igniting a plasma when exposing the substrate to the second reactant to generate a reactive species. In some embodiments the second reactant is either nitrogen or hydrogen.

In various embodiments the second reactant forms a volatile species when reacted with any of aluminum iron copper antimony selenium tellurium germanium and arsenic. In some embodiments the chalcogenide material is any of sulfur selenium tellurium and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the silicon nitride film deposited has a step coverage of at least about 95 . The silicon nitride film may be deposited to a thickness greater than about 30 .

In various embodiments the chamber is purged during at least one of i after performing b and prior to performing c and ii after performing c . In some embodiments b and c are repeated sequentially. In various embodiments the chamber is purged by flowing a purge gas such as any of argon helium nitrogen and hydrogen.

In some embodiments the method further includes depositing a second layer over the substrate whereby the layer is deposited with a step coverage of between about 30 and about 90 .

The second layer may be deposited by remote plasma chemical vapor deposition or plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition. In various embodiments the second layer may include silicon nitride. In some embodiments the second layer may include silicon carbide.

In various embodiments the substrate includes one or more features and the second layer is deposited non conformally such that thickness of the second layer on a sidewall of at least one of the one or more features is greater at the top of the at least one of the one or more features than thickness of the second layer on the sidewall of the at least one of the one or more features at the bottom of the at least one of the one or more features.

Another aspect involves a memory device including a memory stack including a chalcogenide material a silicon nitride layer deposited over the memory stack and encapsulating the chalcogenide material the silicon nitride layer deposited by alternating exposures of an iodine containing silicon precursor and a second reactant using atomic layer deposition the silicon nitride layer having a step coverage of between about 30 and about 90 and a silicon containing layer deposited directly on the silicon nitride layer by remote plasma chemical vapor deposition or plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition at about 250 C. the silicon containing layer having a wet etch rate of less than about 100 minute using diluted hydrofluoric acid wherein the hydrofluoric acid is diluted to a ratio of 100 1.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the presented embodiments. The disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail to not unnecessarily obscure the disclosed embodiments. While the disclosed embodiments will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the disclosed embodiments.

Semiconductor fabrication processes often involve deposition of silicon nitride material. In one example silicon nitride may be used in semiconductor device fabrication as diffusion barriers gate insulators sidewall spacers and encapsulation layers. Conformal silicon nitride layers may also be used in other applications. For example silicon nitride may be used during fabrication of memory structures. Conventional memory structures include metal oxide materials used for bit storage. However as advanced memory structures are developed to accommodate smaller device sizes and improve efficiency new challenges arise. Advanced memory architectures such as magnetoresistive random access memory and phase change random access memory PCRAM rely on new materials other than metal oxides for bit storage. In the case of PCRAM for example the phase of a metal chalcogenide determines the bit state. Some example chalcogenides include sulfur S selenium Se and tellurium Te . These new materials are air and moisture sensitive and may require encapsulation layers. When combined with appropriate metalloid ions such as germanium Ge antimony Sb etc. these chalcogenides form a phase change layer. If damaged the phase change layer may not change phases. The phase change layer may also be sensitive to light. To prevent any damage to the phase change layer a conformal silicon nitride memory encapsulation layer may be deposited over the phase change layer. The memory encapsulation layer has little to no contamination of other compounds and is deposited at low temperatures to avoid damaging the device.

However many conventional deposition methods for depositing such silicon nitride layers as encapsulations layers for magnetic devices either deposit non conformal films such as in plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD or use precursors that etch the chalcogenide material such as by using a chlorine containing or hydrogen containing chemistry with plasma in atomic layer deposition ALD . For example the metal may undergo erosion as follows MCl MCl Eqn. 1

In another example the metal may undergo oxidation or nitridation. An example of an oxidation reaction may be as follows MO MO Eqn. 2

Use of a chlorine containing silicon precursor also often involves deposition at extremely high temperatures such as at temperatures higher than about 500 C. As a result deposition using chlorine containing precursors has conventionally involved igniting a plasma to catalyze the reaction to form silicon nitride.

For example some conventional deposition involves alternating doses of dichlorosilane or another chlorine containing precursor and ammonia NH plasma but both of these operations tend to generate species capable of etching chalcogenide material. For example using dichlorosilane SiClH as a silicon precursor for deposition of an encapsulation layer involves reacting dichlorosilane with a plasma to form the silicon nitride layer. However when the plasma is ignited dichlorosilane may be susceptible to forming hydrogen radicals and NHradicals as well as hydrogen chloride which may then attack metal chalcogenides and metal components of the chamber as shown in . Although chlorine containing silicon precursors may be used to deposit films without a plasma chlorine containing silicon precursors are used at much higher temperatures e.g. greater than 500 C. and memory devices are susceptible to damage at these temperatures.

As shown in if a chlorine containing silicon precursor is used to deposit an encapsulation layer over the substrate chlorine and or hydrogen radicals generated when the plasma is ignited with the second reactant may react to form hydrogen chloride such that chlorine may react with aluminum germanium or antimony or other chamber material metals including iron or copper. These materials e.g. AlCl GeCl or SbCl may generate an evaporative layer which form volatile metal salts. These materials have a low boiling point for example the boiling point of AlClis 120 C. the boiling point of GeClis 87 C. and the boiling point of SbClis 200 C. These volatile metal salts may thereby redeposit onto other layers of the substrate resulting in defects and performance issues. Thus chlorine precursors suffer from the general issues of metal contamination in the films due to chamber etching which produces volatile metal chlorides Al Fe and Cu .

Similarly a plasma generated from a nitrogen containing reactant such as ammonia may form free hydrogen ions radicals and other plasma species that may also etch the chalcogenide. For example a hydrogen plasma may react with tellurium or selenium to form HTe and HSe respectively thereby removing material from the stack and resulting in performance issues and defects. These materials have a low boiling point for example HTe has a boiling point of 2 C. and HSe has a boiling point of 41 C. Generation of such material from exposure to hydrogen plasma may thereby etch the stack. Accordingly conventional chlorine and hydrogen free processes e.g. using an Nplasma do not generate a conformal film and are not effective as barriers.

Provided herein are methods of encapsulating a chalcogenide material without damaging the chalcogenide. Methods involve deposition of a chlorine free silicon precursor. By using an iodine containing silicon precursor or iodosilane in place of a chlorine containing silicon precursor etching due to chlorine can be greatly reduced or eliminated. Accordingly in various embodiments described herein a chlorine free iodine containing silicon precursor is used for depositing a silicon nitride film. Iodine containing silicon precursors enable thermal deposition processes which further reduce etching due to free hydrogen present in the ammonia plasma used to make silicon nitride films. The terms iodine containing silicon precursor and iodosilane precursor may be used interchangeably herein and both may refer to precursors including at least one silicon and at least one iodine atom. Materials generated from reacting an iodosilane precursor with the metals described herein have higher boiling points than materials generated when reacted with a chlorosilane. For example materials generated from reacting an iodosilane precursor with aluminum have a boiling point greater than 240 C. materials generated from reacting an iodosilane precursor with germanium have a boiling point greater than 353 C. and materials generated from reacting an iodosilane precursor with antimony have boiling points greater than 181 C. Encapsulation layers described herein may be hermetic conformal and non damaging and may be deposited at low temperatures such as temperatures less than about 300 C.

The deposited films are also conformal. Conformality of films may be measured by the step coverage. Step coverage as used herein is calculated by dividing the average thickness of the deposited film on the sidewall by the average thickness of the deposited film at the top of the feature and multiplying it by 100 to obtain a percentage. Disclosed embodiments may deposit films having a step coverage of at least about 95 or about 100 or 100 . In some embodiments substrates include stacks whereby an aspect ratio between stacks is about 5 1 and disclosed embodiments may deposit silicon nitride to a step coverage of at least about 95 using an iodine containing precursor and ammonia. In some embodiments the presence of some hydrogen in the plasma or second reactant may improve film conformality.

As compared to conventional chlorine containing chemistries disclosed embodiments may be more compatible with various materials as shown in Table 1 below. Although some Hmay be formed if a NHplasma is used to generate HTe disclosed embodiments are generally suitable for various materials using low or no Hexposure. Disclosed embodiments also exhibit little to no pattern loading sensitivity.

Embodiments described herein involve deposition by ALD. ALD is a technique that deposits thin layers of material using sequential self limiting reactions. Typically an ALD cycle includes operations to deliver and adsorb at least one reactant to the substrate surface and then react the adsorbed reactant with one or more reactants to form the partial layer of film. As an example a silicon nitride deposition cycle may include the following operations i delivery adsorption of an iodine containing silicon precursor ii purging of the iodine containing silicon precursor from the chamber iii delivery of a nitrogen containing reactant with an optional plasma and iv purging of the nitrogen containing gas and or plasma from the chamber.

Unlike a chemical vapor deposition CVD technique ALD processes use surface mediated deposition reactions to deposit films on a layer by layer basis. In one example of an ALD process a substrate surface that includes a population of surface active sites is exposed to a gas phase distribution of a first precursor such as an iodine containing silicon precursor in a dose provided to a chamber housing a substrate. Molecules of this first precursor are adsorbed onto the substrate surface including chemisorbed species and or physisorbed molecules of the first precursor. It should be understood that when the compound is adsorbed onto the substrate surface as described herein the adsorbed layer may include the compound as well as derivatives of the compound. For example an adsorbed layer of an iodine containing silicon precursor may include the iodine containing silicon precursor as well as derivatives of the iodine containing silicon precursor. After a first precursor dose the chamber is then evacuated to remove most or all of first precursor remaining in gas phase so that mostly or only the adsorbed species remain. In some implementations the chamber may not be fully evacuated. For example the chamber may be evacuated such that the partial pressure of the first precursor in gas phase is sufficiently low to mitigate a reaction. A second reactant such as a nitrogen containing reactant is introduced to the chamber so that some of these molecules react with the first precursor adsorbed on the surface. In some processes the second precursor reacts immediately with the adsorbed first precursor. In other embodiments the second reactant reacts only after a source of activation is applied temporally. In some embodiments a plasma is ignited during the second reactant dose. The chamber may then be evacuated again to remove unbound second reactant molecules. As described above in some embodiments the chamber may not be completely evacuated. Additional ALD cycles may be used to build film thickness.

In certain embodiments an ALD first precursor dose partially saturates the substrate surface. In some embodiments the dose phase of an ALD cycle concludes before the precursor contacts the substrate to evenly saturate the surface. Typically the precursor flow is turned off or diverted at this point and only purge gas flows. By operating in this sub saturation regime the ALD process reduces the cycle time and increases throughput. However because precursor adsorption is not saturation limited the adsorbed precursor concentration may vary slightly across the substrate surface. Examples of ALD processes operating in the sub saturation regime are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 061 587 filed Oct. 23 2013 titled SUB SATURATED ATOMIC LAYER DEPOSITION AND CONFORMAL FILM DEPOSITION which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As described in some implementations the ALD methods include plasma activation. As described herein the ALD methods and apparatuses described herein may be conformal film deposition CFD methods which are described generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 084 399 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 728 956 filed Apr. 11 2011 and titled PLASMA ACTIVATED CONFORMAL FILM DEPOSITION and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 084 305 filed Apr. 11 2011 and titled SILICON NITRIDE FILMS AND METHODS which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

During operations of an inert gas may be flowed. In various embodiments the inert gas is used as a carrier gas. Example carrier gases include argon helium and neon. In some embodiments a hydrogen containing carrier gas may be used. In some embodiments the carrier gas is used as a purge gas in some operations. In some embodiments the carrier gas is diverted. The inert gas may be provided to assist with pressure and or temperature control of the process chamber evaporation of a liquid reactant more rapid delivery of the reactant and or as a sweep gas for removing process gases from the process chamber and or process chamber plumbing.

Various disclosed embodiments may be performed at a pressure between about 0.1 Torr and about 20 Torr. In many embodiments the methods disclosed may be performed at a substrate temperature less than about 300 C. such as about 250 C. In such embodiments the pedestal may be set to a temperature of less than about 300 C. to control the substrate temperature. For example for MRAM and PCRAM applications the materials on the substrate may be sensitive to high temperatures.

In operation the substrate is exposed to an iodine containing silicon precursor such that the iodine containing silicon precursor adsorbs onto the substrate surface. Disclosed embodiments involve precursors not conventionally used for deposition of silicon nitride by ALD. Using an iodine containing silicon precursor allows for chlorine free deposition. Example iodine containing silicon precursors include diiodosilane DIS tetraiodosilane hexaiododisilane and others.

Operation may be part of an ALD cycle. As discussed above generally an ALD cycle is the minimum set of operations used to perform a surface deposition reaction one time. In some embodiments the result of one cycle is production of at least a partial silicon nitride film layer on a substrate surface. The cycle may include certain ancillary operations such as sweeping one of the reactants or byproducts and or treating the partial film as deposited. Generally a cycle contains one instance of a unique sequence of operations. As discussed above generally a cycle is the minimum set of operations used to perform a surface deposition reaction one time. The result of one cycle is production of at least a partial film layer e.g. a partial silicon nitride film layer on a substrate surface.

During operation the substrate is exposed to the first precursor such that the first precursor is adsorbed onto the substrate surface to form an adsorbed layer. In some embodiments an iodine containing silicon precursor adsorbs onto the substrate surface in a self limiting manner such that once active sites are occupied by the iodine containing silicon precursor little or no additional iodine containing silicon precursor will be adsorbed on the substrate surface. For example iodine containing silicon precursor may be adsorbed onto about 60 of the substrate surface. In various embodiments when the iodine containing silicon precursor is flowed to the chamber the iodine containing silicon precursor adsorbs onto active sites on the surface of the substrate forming a thin layer of the iodine containing silicon precursor on the surface. In various embodiments this layer may be less than a monolayer and may have a thickness between about 0.2 and about 0.4 . Methods provided herein may be performed at a temperature less than about 300 C. such as at about 250 C.

In operation the process chamber is optionally purged to remove excess iodine containing silicon precursor in gas phase that did not adsorb onto the surface of the substrate. Purging the chamber may involve flowing a purge gas or a sweep gas which may be a carrier gas used in other operations or may be a different gas. In some embodiments purging may involve evacuating the chamber. Example purge gases include argon nitrogen hydrogen and helium. In some embodiments operation may include one or more evacuation subphases for evacuating the process chamber. Alternatively it will be appreciated that operation may be omitted in some embodiments. Operation may have any suitable duration such as between about 0 seconds and about 60 seconds for example about 0.01 seconds. In some embodiments increasing a flow rate of one or more purge gases may decrease the duration of operation . For example a purge gas flow rate may be adjusted according to various reactant thermodynamic characteristics and or geometric characteristics of the process chamber and or process chamber plumbing for modifying the duration of operation . In one non limiting example the duration of a purge phase may be adjusted by modulating purge gas flow rate. This may reduce deposition cycle time which may improve substrate throughput. After a purge the iodine containing silicon precursors remain adsorbed onto the substrate surface.

In operation the substrate is exposed to a second reactant to react with the adsorbed layer of the iodine containing silicon precursor. Note that the term second reactant may be used to describe one or more gases introduced to the chamber when plasma is ignited in an ALD cycle.

In some embodiments the reaction may be thermal. Methods involving thermal ALD using either ammonia NH or hydrazines e.g. HN reduce contamination and reduce the presence of hydrogen radicals during deposition thereby reducing etching of the chalcogenide and or metals on the substrate and or in the chamber. For a thermal process deposition may be performed at a temperature of about 300 C.

In some embodiments a plasma may be optionally ignited in operation . Plasma energy may be provided to activate the second reactant such as a nitrogen containing gas into ions and radicals and other activated species which react with the adsorbed layer of the first precursor. In disclosed embodiments involving a plasma the plasma may include less than about 1 hydrogen radicals thereby reducing etching of chalcogenide or metal material during deposition. In various embodiments the plasma is an in situ plasma such that the plasma is formed directly above the substrate surface in the chamber. The in situ plasma may be ignited at a power per substrate area between about 0.2122 W cmand about 2.122 W cm. For example the power may range from about 150 W to about 6000 W or from about 600 W to about 6000 W or from about 800 W to about 4000 W for a chamber processing four 300 mm wafers. For example plasmas for ALD processes may be generated by applying a radio frequency RF field to a gas using two capacitively coupled plates. Ionization of the gas between plates by the RF field ignites the plasma creating free electrons in the plasma discharge region. These electrons are accelerated by the RF field and may collide with gas phase reactant molecules. Collision of these electrons with reactant molecules may form radical species that participate in the deposition process. It will be appreciated that the RF field may be coupled via any suitable electrodes. In various embodiments a high frequency plasma is used having a frequency of at least about 13.56 MHz or at least about 27 MHz or at least about 40 MHz or at least about 60 MHz. In some embodiments a microwave based plasma may be used. Non limiting examples of electrodes include process gas distribution showerheads and substrate support pedestals. It will be appreciated that plasmas for ALD processes may be formed by one or more suitable methods other than capacitive coupling of an RF field to a gas. In some embodiments the plasma is a remote plasma such that a second reactant is ignited in a remote plasma generator upstream of the chamber then delivered to the chamber where the substrate is housed.

Where a plasma is used a dose of an iodine containing silicon precursor may be followed by a dose of nitrogen N or hydrogen H plasma. The corresponding iodine containing metal salts that may generate from reacting with chalcogenides on the substrate or metals of the chamber components may not be sufficiently volatile to result in wafer contamination. For example iodine containing salts including aluminum germanium or antimony have higher boiling points than corresponding chlorine containing salts. As a result iodine containing salts may form a passivation layer but not an evaporative layer and the salts are less likely to redeposit onto materials on the substrate. In some cases aluminum may react with chlorine such that the chamber is etched and therefore damaged and aluminum may also decompose onto the wafer.

Returning to in operation the chamber is optionally purged to remove the etched species and any residual byproducts. Operation may be purged using any of the conditions described above with respect to operation .

In operation of it is determined whether the desired thickness of film has been deposited. If not operations are repeated in sufficient cycles to deposit a desired thickness of film. Any suitable number of deposition cycles may be included in an ALD process to deposit a desired film thickness of silicon nitride. For example about fifty deposition cycles may be performed to deposit a film on the substrate using disclosed embodiments. In some embodiments the thickness of the deposited silicon nitride film may be greater than about 30 on a sidewall over a stack of films for fabrication of a memory device.

Disclosed embodiments may be used for various applications. One application may include encapsulating chalcogenides using a bilayer film to achieve a low wet etch rate. In various deposition processes it may be desired to achieve advanced memory architectures that also have good adhesion to underlayers absence of hydrogen radicals low wet etch rate WER tight across wafer uniformity ability to fill high aspect ratio features as well as low thermal conductivity from line to line. While conventional deposition techniques may not achieve these characteristics within a single film disclosed embodiments may be suitable for depositing films having such characteristics.

The Joule heat generated inside a MRAM or PCRAM device may determine the switching behavior of the device and for high density memory arrays the temperature surrounding may lead to a consequent resistance degradation of neighboring devices during cycling. Conventional films are unlikely to meet the above specifications and limit thermal cross talk. Pulsed plasma e.g. plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition may be used for some applications but may result in low device yield and is incapable of being extended to the next node which will have even more aggressive features.

Disclosed embodiments may be used to deposit a bilayer film capable of achieving the above described characteristics. A dense low WER film can protect the encapsulation layer from being etched in subsequent processing such as by polishing. A bilayer film may be deposited whereby the first layer is a uniform conformal ALD SiN layer with good air and moisture barrier with little or no hydrogen radicals and a top layer is a low wet etch rate film. In some embodiments the first layer may be a silicon nitride layer deposited using an iodine containing silicon precursor as described above with respect to . In various embodiments the second or top layer may reduce lateral conduction by having two interfaces. Disclosed embodiments may use the combination of properties from two or more films. One or more of these films may be deposited by a remote plasma chemical vapor deposition RPCVD process. In some embodiments one or more of these films may be deposited by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD .

In various embodiments a first layer may have superior step coverage low or no hydrogen radicals or ions and good adhesion to underlayers. In some embodiments the first layer may have step coverage of up to about 100 for features having an aspect ratio of about 13 1. In some embodiments the first layer may also be a non oxidizing film. A non oxidizing film may be advantageous to reducing damage to the underlying substrate.

A second layer may have superior wet etch performance. For example in some embodiments the wet etch rate may be less than about 100 per minute or less than about 10 per minute in diluted hydrofluoric acid where hydrofluoric acid is diluted to a ratio of 100 1. The second layer may include silicon nitride silicon carbide silicon carbonitride silicon oxycarbide or combinations thereof. The film may be hermetic. In some embodiments the second layer has low hydrogen desorption. Without being bound by a particular theory the second layer having low hydrogen desorption may be less susceptible to releasing hydrogen thereby increasing thermal stability and reducing the likelihood of etching or damaging the substrate during deposition. In some embodiments the second layer has a step coverage of between about 60 and about 90 for features having an aspect ratio of about 4 1.

In various embodiments the second layer is deposited such that it forms a non conformal breadloaf at or near the top of the features. For example in some embodiments the second layer is deposited such that the sidewall thickness is greater at the top than at the bottom of a feature.

In various embodiments the second layer may be a silicon carbide or a silicon nitride film deposited by PECVD. In some embodiments the second layer may be deposited by pulsed PECVD. In some embodiments the second layer may be deposited by non pulsed PECVD. The second layer as deposited by PECVD may include high silicon content. In some embodiments the first and second layers are deposited in the same chamber or module. In some embodiments the first and second layers are deposited without an air break.

As shown the silicon containing film may also be created to form a non conformal breadloaf at the top which leaves a void between the stacks and thus an added thermal barrier between the stacks. Breadloafing as described herein may include non conformal coverage having a step coverage between about 30 and about 90 or between about 50 and about 90 . The silicon containing film may be deposited such that the sidewall thickness is greater at the top than at the bottom of a feature. In some embodiments the deposited film may be deposited non conformally such that deposition thickness at or near the top of the stacks is at least between about 10 and about 50 thicker than deposition thickness on the sidewalls and or on the substrate between stacks. Breadloafing results in more deposition at or near the top of the stacks such that the film is deposited thicker at or near the top of the stacks while deposition thickness in between the stacks on the sidewalls and on the bottom of the gap between the stacks is thinner. As a result of this non conformal deposition a void is formed between stacks because the thicker deposition at or near the top of the stacks prevents further deposition into the feature thereby forming a void between the sidewalls. While non conformal top heavy deposition is usually avoided in this case such deposition techniques may be beneficial. shows an example substrate where there may be more deposition at or near the top of the features between lines to form the breadloaf thereby forming a void between two lines.

As described above films may be deposited at low temperature. Additional descriptions for deposition of silicon containing carbon containing films such as SiC and SiOC using a remote plasma chemical vapor deposition RPCVD apparatus are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 907 699 filed on May 31 2013 entitled METHOD TO OBTAIN SIC CLASS OF FILMS OF DESIRED COMPOSITION AND FILM PROPERTIES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 494 836 filed on Jun. 21 2012 entitled REMOTE PLASMA BASED DEPOSITION OF SiOC CLASS OF FILMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 616 435 filed on Feb. 6 2015 entitled CONFORMAL DEPOSITION OF SILICON CARBIDE FILMS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 712 167 filed on May 14 2015 entitled MINIMIZING RADICAL RECOMBINATION USING ALD SILICON OXIDE SURFACE COATING WITH INTERMITTENT RESTORATION PLASMA which are all herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Two deposition cycles A and B are depicted. Each deposition cycle includes various phases. For example deposition cycle A includes an iodine containing silicon precursor exposure phase A a purge phase A a second reactant e.g. nitrogen reactant exposure phase A and a purge phase A. Likewise deposition cycle B includes a reducing agent phase B a purge phase B an iodine containing silicon precursor exposure phase B another purge phase B a nitrogen reactant exposure phase B and a purge phase B. As shown in example process a carrier gas is flowed throughout the deposition cycles A and B. In various embodiments the carrier gas is used as a purge gas. In some embodiments the carrier gas may be different than the purge gas. In some embodiments a carrier gas is only flowed during purge phases e.g. A A A B B and B . A carrier gas may be any of those described above with respect to .

In iodine containing silicon precursor exposure phase A the iodine containing silicon precursor flow and carrier gas flow are turned on while the reducing agent flow and nitrogen reactant flow are turned off. This may correspond to operation of . In purge phase A the carrier gas flow is turned on while the iodine containing silicon precursor flow reducing agent flow and nitrogen reactant flow are turned off. This may correspond to operation of . In nitrogen reactant exposure phase A the carrier gas flow and nitrogen reactant flow are turned on while the iodine containing silicon precursor flow and reducing agent flow are turned off. Note that in some embodiments depending on the nitrogen reactant chosen and process conditions the plasma may be turned on during this phase. This phase may correspond to operation of . Returning to in purge phase A the carrier gas flow is turned on while the iodine containing silicon precursor flow reducing agent flow and nitrogen reactant flow are turned off. Note that as shown in these phases may then be repeated in deposition cycle B upon determining in operation of that the film has not been deposited to an adequate thickness. Accordingly deposition cycle B may then include an iodine containing silicon precursor exposure phase B followed by a purge phase B a nitrogen reactant exposure phase B and a subsequent purge phase B. These phases as shown in may have the same pattern of corresponding flows for carrier gas iodosilane precursor gas and nitrogen reactant gas flow as in deposition cycle A.

ALD process station fluidly communicates with reactant delivery system for delivering process gases to a distribution showerhead . Reactant delivery system includes a mixing vessel for blending and or conditioning process gases such as an iodine containing silicon precursor gas or second reactant gas e.g. ammonia or hydrazine for delivery to showerhead . One or more mixing vessel inlet valves may control introduction of process gases to mixing vessel . Nitrogen plasma or hydrogen plasma may also be delivered to the showerhead or may be generated in the ALD process station .

As an example the embodiment of includes a vaporization point for vaporizing liquid reactant to be supplied to the mixing vessel . In some embodiments vaporization point may be a heated vaporizer. The saturated reactant vapor produced from such vaporizers may condense in downstream delivery piping. Exposure of incompatible gases to the condensed reactant may create small particles. These small particles may clog piping impede valve operation contaminate substrates etc. Some approaches to addressing these issues involve purging and or evacuating the delivery piping to remove residual reactant. However purging the delivery piping may increase process station cycle time degrading process station throughput. Thus in some embodiments delivery piping downstream of vaporization point may be heat traced. In some examples mixing vessel may also be heat traced. In one non limiting example piping downstream of vaporization point has an increasing temperature profile extending from approximately 100 C. to approximately 150 C. at mixing vessel .

In some embodiments liquid precursor or liquid reactant may be vaporized at a liquid injector. For example a liquid injector may inject pulses of a liquid reactant into a carrier gas stream upstream of the mixing vessel. In one embodiment a liquid injector may vaporize the reactant by flashing the liquid from a higher pressure to a lower pressure. In another example a liquid injector may atomize the liquid into dispersed microdroplets that are subsequently vaporized in a heated delivery pipe. Smaller droplets may vaporize faster than larger droplets reducing a delay between liquid injection and complete vaporization. Faster vaporization may reduce a length of piping downstream from vaporization point . In one scenario a liquid injector may be mounted directly to mixing vessel . In another scenario a liquid injector may be mounted directly to showerhead .

In some embodiments a liquid flow controller LFC upstream of vaporization point may be provided for controlling a mass flow of liquid for vaporization and delivery to process station . For example the LFC may include a thermal mass flow meter MFM located downstream of the LFC. A plunger valve of the LFC may then be adjusted responsive to feedback control signals provided by a proportional integral derivative PID controller in electrical communication with the MFM. However it may take one second or more to stabilize liquid flow using feedback control. This may extend a time for dosing a liquid reactant. Thus in some embodiments the LFC may be dynamically switched between a feedback control mode and a direct control mode. In some embodiments this may be performed by disabling a sense tube of the LFC and the PID controller.

Showerhead distributes process gases toward substrate . In the embodiment shown in the substrate is located beneath showerhead and is shown resting on a pedestal . Showerhead may have any suitable shape and may have any suitable number and arrangement of ports for distributing process gases to substrate .

In some embodiments pedestal may be raised or lowered to expose substrate to a volume between the substrate and the showerhead . It will be appreciated that in some embodiments pedestal height may be adjusted programmatically by a suitable computer controller .

In another scenario adjusting a height of pedestal may allow a plasma density to be varied during plasma activation cycles included in the process. At the conclusion of the process phase pedestal may be lowered during another substrate transfer phase to allow removal of substrate from pedestal .

In some embodiments pedestal may be temperature controlled via heater . In some embodiments the pedestal may be heated to a temperature less than about 300 C. such as about 250 C. during deposition of silicon nitride films as described in disclosed embodiments. Further in some embodiments pressure control for process station may be provided by butterfly valve . As shown in the embodiment of butterfly valve throttles a vacuum provided by a downstream vacuum pump not shown . However in some embodiments pressure control of process station may also be adjusted by varying a flow rate of one or more gases introduced to the process station .

In some embodiments a position of showerhead may be adjusted relative to pedestal to vary a volume between the substrate and the showerhead . Further it will be appreciated that a vertical position of pedestal and or showerhead may be varied by any suitable mechanism within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments pedestal may include a rotational axis for rotating an orientation of substrate . It will be appreciated that in some embodiments one or more of these example adjustments may be performed programmatically by one or more suitable computer controllers .

In some embodiments where plasma may be used as discussed above showerhead and pedestal electrically communicate with a radio frequency RF power supply and matching network for powering a plasma. In some embodiments the plasma energy may be controlled by controlling one or more of a process station pressure a gas concentration an RF source power an RF source frequency and a plasma power pulse timing. For example RF power supply and matching network may be operated at any suitable power to form a plasma having a desired composition of radical species. Examples of suitable powers are included above. Likewise RF power supply may provide RF power of any suitable frequency. In some embodiments RF power supply may be configured to control high and low frequency RF power sources independently of one another. Example low frequency RF frequencies may include but are not limited to frequencies between 0 kHz and 500 kHz. Example high frequency RF frequencies may include but are not limited to frequencies between 1.8 MHz and 2.45 GHz or greater than about 13.56 MHz or greater than 27 MHz or greater than 40 MHz or greater than 60 MHz. It will be appreciated that any suitable parameters may be modulated discretely or continuously to provide plasma energy for the surface reactions.

In some embodiments the plasma may be monitored in situ by one or more plasma monitors. In one scenario plasma power may be monitored by one or more voltage current sensors e.g. VI probes . In another scenario plasma density and or process gas concentration may be measured by one or more optical emission spectroscopy sensors OES . In some embodiments one or more plasma parameters may be programmatically adjusted based on measurements from such in situ plasma monitors. For example an OES sensor may be used in a feedback loop for providing programmatic control of plasma power. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments other monitors may be used to monitor the plasma and other process characteristics. Such monitors may include but are not limited to infrared IR monitors acoustic monitors and pressure transducers.

In some embodiments instructions for a controller may be provided via input output control IOC sequencing instructions. In one example the instructions for setting conditions for a process phase may be included in a corresponding recipe phase of a process recipe. In some cases process recipe phases may be sequentially arranged so that all instructions for a process phase are executed concurrently with that process phase. In some embodiments instructions for setting one or more reactor parameters may be included in a recipe phase. For example a first recipe phase may include instructions for setting a flow rate of an inert and or a reactant gas e.g. the first precursor such as an iodine containing silicon precursor instructions for setting a flow rate of a carrier gas such as argon and time delay instructions for the first recipe phase. A second subsequent recipe phase may include instructions for modulating or stopping a flow rate of an inert and or a reactant gas and instructions for modulating a flow rate of a carrier or purge gas and time delay instructions for the second recipe phase. A third recipe phase may include instructions for modulating a flow rate of a second reactant gas such as ammonia instructions for modulating the flow rate of a carrier or purge gas and time delay instructions for the third recipe phase. A fourth subsequent recipe phase may include instructions for modulating or stopping a flow rate of an inert and or a reactant gas and instructions for modulating a flow rate of a carrier or purge gas and time delay instructions for the fourth recipe phase. It will be appreciated that these recipe phases may be further subdivided and or iterated in any suitable way within the scope of the disclosed embodiments. In some embodiments the controller may include any of the features described below with respect to system controller of .

As described above one or more process stations may be included in a multi station processing tool. shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a multi station processing tool with an inbound load lock and an outbound load lock either or both of which may include a remote plasma source. A robot at atmospheric pressure is configured to move wafers from a cassette loaded through a pod into inbound load lock via an atmospheric port . A wafer is placed by the robot on a pedestal in the inbound load lock the atmospheric port is closed and the load lock is pumped down. Where the inbound load lock includes a remote plasma source the wafer may be exposed to a remote plasma treatment in the load lock prior to being introduced into a processing chamber . Further the wafer also may be heated in the inbound load lock as well for example to remove moisture and adsorbed gases. Next a chamber transport port to processing chamber is opened and another robot not shown places the wafer into the reactor on a pedestal of a first station shown in the reactor for processing. While the embodiment depicted in includes load locks it will be appreciated that in some embodiments direct entry of a wafer into a process station may be provided.

The depicted processing chamber includes four process stations numbered from 1 to 4 in the embodiment shown in . Each station has a heated pedestal shown at for station and gas line inlets. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments each process station may have different or multiple purposes. For example in some embodiments a process station may be switchable between an ALD and plasma enhanced ALD process mode. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments processing chamber may include one or more matched pairs of ALD and plasma enhanced ALD process stations. While the depicted processing chamber includes four stations it will be understood that a processing chamber according to the present disclosure may have any suitable number of stations. For example in some embodiments a processing chamber may have five or more stations while in other embodiments a processing chamber may have three or fewer stations.

In some embodiments system controller controls all of the activities of process tool . System controller executes system control software stored in mass storage device loaded into memory device and executed on processor . Alternatively the control logic may be hard coded in the controller . Applications Specific Integrated Circuits Programmable Logic Devices e.g. field programmable gate arrays or FPGAs and the like may be used for these purposes. In the following discussion wherever software or code is used functionally comparable hard coded logic may be used in its place. System control software may include instructions for controlling the timing mixture of gases gas flow rates chamber and or station pressure chamber and or station temperature wafer temperature target power levels RF power levels substrate pedestal chuck and or susceptor position and other parameters of a particular process performed by process tool . System control software may be configured in any suitable way. For example various process tool component subroutines or control objects may be written to control operation of the process tool components used to carry out various process tool processes. System control software may be coded in any suitable computer readable programming language.

In some embodiments system control software may include input output control IOC sequencing instructions for controlling the various parameters described above. Other computer software and or programs stored on mass storage device and or memory device associated with system controller may be employed in some embodiments. Examples of programs or sections of programs for this purpose include a substrate positioning program a process gas control program a pressure control program a heater control program and a plasma control program.

A substrate positioning program may include program code for process tool components that are used to load the substrate onto pedestal and to control the spacing between the substrate and other parts of process tool .

A process gas control program may include code for controlling gas composition e.g. iodine containing silicon precursor gases and nitrogen containing gases carrier gases and purge gases as described herein and flow rates and optionally for flowing gas into one or more process stations prior to deposition in order to stabilize the pressure in the process station. A pressure control program may include code for controlling the pressure in the process station by regulating for example a throttle valve in the exhaust system of the process station a gas flow into the process station etc.

A heater control program may include code for controlling the current to a heating unit that is used to heat the substrate. Alternatively the heater control program may control delivery of a heat transfer gas such as helium to the substrate.

A plasma control program may include code for setting RF power levels applied to the process electrodes in one or more process stations in accordance with the embodiments herein.

A pressure control program may include code for maintaining the pressure in the reaction chamber in accordance with the embodiments herein.

In some embodiments there may be a user interface associated with system controller . The user interface may include a display screen graphical software displays of the apparatus and or process conditions and user input devices such as pointing devices keyboards touch screens microphones etc.

In some embodiments parameters adjusted by system controller may relate to process conditions. Non limiting examples include process gas composition and flow rates temperature pressure plasma conditions such as RF bias power levels pressure temperature etc. These parameters may be provided to the user in the form of a recipe which may be entered utilizing the user interface.

Signals for monitoring the process may be provided by analog and or digital input connections of system controller from various process tool sensors. The signals for controlling the process may be output on the analog and digital output connections of process tool . Non limiting examples of process tool sensors that may be monitored include mass flow controllers pressure sensors such as manometers thermocouples etc. Appropriately programmed feedback and control algorithms may be used with data from these sensors to maintain process conditions.

System controller may provide program instructions for implementing the above described deposition processes. The program instructions may control a variety of process parameters such as DC power level RF bias power level pressure temperature etc. The instructions may control the parameters to operate in situ deposition of film stacks according to various embodiments described herein.

The system controller will typically include one or more memory devices and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions so that the apparatus will perform a method in accordance with disclosed embodiments. Machine readable media containing instructions for controlling process operations in accordance with disclosed embodiments may be coupled to the system controller .

In some implementations the system controller is part of a system which may be part of the above described examples. Such systems can include semiconductor processing equipment including a processing tool or tools chamber or chambers a platform or platforms for processing and or specific processing components a wafer pedestal a gas flow system etc. . These systems may be integrated with electronics for controlling their operation before during and after processing of a semiconductor wafer or substrate. The electronics may be referred to as the controller which may control various components or subparts of the system or systems. The system controller depending on the processing conditions and or the type of system may be programmed to control any of the processes disclosed herein including the delivery of processing gases temperature settings e.g. heating and or cooling pressure settings vacuum settings power settings radio frequency RF generator settings RF matching circuit settings frequency settings flow rate settings fluid delivery settings positional and operation settings wafer transfers into and out of a tool and other transfer tools and or load locks connected to or interfaced with a specific system.

Broadly speaking the system controller may be defined as electronics having various integrated circuits logic memory and or software that receive instructions issue instructions control operation enable cleaning operations enable endpoint measurements and the like. The integrated circuits may include chips in the form of firmware that store program instructions digital signal processors DSPs chips defined as application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or one or more microprocessors or microcontrollers that execute program instructions e.g. software . Program instructions may be instructions communicated to the system controller in the form of various individual settings or program files defining operational parameters for carrying out a particular process on or for a semiconductor wafer or to a system. The operational parameters may in some embodiments be part of a recipe defined by process engineers to accomplish one or more processing steps during the fabrication of one or more layers materials metals oxides silicon silicon dioxide surfaces circuits and or dies of a wafer.

The system controller in some implementations may be a part of or coupled to a computer that is integrated with coupled to the system otherwise networked to the system or a combination thereof. For example the system controller may be in the cloud or all or a part of a fab host computer system which can allow for remote access of the wafer processing. The computer may enable remote access to the system to monitor current progress of fabrication operations examine a history of past fabrication operations examine trends or performance metrics from a plurality of fabrication operations to change parameters of current processing to set processing steps to follow a current processing or to start a new process. In some examples a remote computer e.g. a server can provide process recipes to a system over a network which may include a local network or the Internet. The remote computer may include a user interface that enables entry or programming of parameters and or settings which are then communicated to the system from the remote computer. In some examples the system controller receives instructions in the form of data which specify parameters for each of the processing steps to be performed during one or more operations. It should be understood that the parameters may be specific to the type of process to be performed and the type of tool that the system controller is configured to interface with or control. Thus as described above the system controller may be distributed such as by including one or more discrete controllers that are networked together and working towards a common purpose such as the processes and controls described herein. An example of a distributed controller for such purposes would be one or more integrated circuits on a chamber in communication with one or more integrated circuits located remotely such as at the platform level or as part of a remote computer that combine to control a process on the chamber.

Without limitation example systems may include a plasma etch chamber or module a deposition chamber or module a spin rinse chamber or module a metal plating chamber or module a clean chamber or module a bevel edge etch chamber or module a physical vapor deposition PVD chamber or module a chemical vapor deposition CVD chamber or module an ALD chamber or module an atomic layer etch ALE chamber or module an ion implantation chamber or module a track chamber or module and any other semiconductor processing systems that may be associated or used in the fabrication and or manufacturing of semiconductor wafers.

As noted above depending on the process step or steps to be performed by the tool the system controller might communicate with one or more of other tool circuits or modules other tool components cluster tools other tool interfaces adjacent tools neighboring tools tools located throughout a factory a main computer another controller or tools used in material transport that bring containers of wafers to and from tool locations and or load ports in a semiconductor manufacturing factory.

An appropriate apparatus for performing the methods disclosed herein is further discussed and described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 084 399 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 728 956 filed Apr. 11 2011 and titled PLASMA ACTIVATED CONFORMAL FILM DEPOSITION and Ser. No. 13 084 305 filed Apr. 11 2011 and titled SILICON NITRIDE FILMS AND METHODS each of which is incorporated herein in its entireties.

The apparatus process described herein may be used in conjunction with lithographic patterning tools or processes for example for the fabrication or manufacture of semiconductor devices displays LEDs photovoltaic panels and the like. Typically though not necessarily such tools processes will be used or conducted together in a common fabrication facility. Lithographic patterning of a film typically includes some or all of the following operations each operation enabled with a number of possible tools 1 application of photoresist on a workpiece i.e. substrate using a spin on or spray on tool 2 curing of photoresist using a hot plate or furnace or UV curing tool 3 exposing the photoresist to visible or UV or x ray light with a tool such as a wafer stepper 4 developing the resist so as to selectively remove resist and thereby pattern it using a tool such as a wet bench 5 transferring the resist pattern into an underlying film or workpiece by using a dry or plasma assisted etching tool and 6 removing the resist using a tool such as an RF or microwave plasma resist stripper.

An experiment was conducted to evaluate the amount of surface contamination from depositing 100 of SiN using diiodosilane by ALD on a 12 inch wafer. The metals shown in Table 2 below were evaluated for contamination levels after the film was deposited. Dichlorosilane metals result in surface concentrations greater than 100 10atoms cmfor aluminum greater than 5 10atoms cmfor copper and greater than 5 10atoms cmfor iron. As shown in Table 2 metal contamination on the wafer when the silicon nitride film was deposited by diiodosilane was much lower than that of films deposited by dichlorosilane.

A Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy FTIR spectrum was generated for a silicon nitride material deposited by a diiodosilane and a silicon nitride material deposited by a dichlorosilane. The silicon nitride material deposited by the iodosilane showed only N H bonding and no generation of unstable Si H bonds.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing the processes systems and apparatus of the present embodiments. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the embodiments are not to be limited to the details given herein.

