---

title: Systems and methods for determining a potential failure or other status of a robotic device
abstract: Methods and systems for proactively preventing hazardous or other situations in a robot-cloud interaction are provided. An example method includes receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. The task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. The method may also include a computing system determining information associated with hazardous situations based on the information associated with the task logs. For example, the hazardous situations may comprise situations associated with failures of one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices. According to the method, information associated with a contextual situation of a first robotic device may be determined, and when the information associated with the contextual situation is consistent with information associated with the one or more hazardous situations, an alert indicating a potential failure of the first robotic device may be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471904&OS=09471904&RS=09471904
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09471904
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150408
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 753 729 filed Jan. 30 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 595 875 filed on Feb. 7 2012 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to robot cloud computing and in examples to proactively preventing potentially hazardous or other situations in a robot cloud interaction.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud .

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

Cloud computing may free users from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks through use of simpler hardware on the user s computer that accesses a vast network of computing resources e.g. processors hard drives etc. . Sharing of resources may reduce cost to individuals. Thus any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive.

In one example a client device may be a robotic device configured to perform one or more tasks or functions. In some cases a computer connected to the cloud may receive information from a plurality of robotic devices performing various functions.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia systems and methods for determining a potential failure or other status of a robotic device in a robot cloud interaction.

In one example a method is provided that comprises receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. The task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. The method may also include a computing system having a processor and a memory determining information associated with hazardous situations based on the information associated with the task logs. For example the hazardous situations may include situations associated with failures of one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices. The method may further include determining information associated with a contextual situation of a first robotic device of the plurality of robotic devices. According to the method an alert indicating a potential failure of the first robotic device may be provided when the information associated with the contextual situation is consistent with information associated with the one or more hazardous situations.

Any of the methods described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions of the method. Further examples may also include articles of manufacture including tangible computer readable media that have computer readable instructions encoded thereon and the instructions may comprise instructions to perform functions of the methods described herein.

In another example a computer readable memory having stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions is provided. The functions may comprise determining information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. The task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. The functions may also include determining information associated with hazardous situations based on the information associated with the task logs. For example the hazardous situations may include situations associated with failures of one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices. The functions may further include determining information associated with a contextual situation of a first robotic device of the plurality of robotic devices. According to the functions when the information associated with the contextual situation is consistent with information associated with the one or more hazardous situations an alert indicating a potential failure of the first robotic device may be provided.

The computer readable memory may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable memory may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable memory may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable memory may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage medium.

In addition circuitry may be provided that is wired to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In still further examples any type of devices may be used or configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In another example a system is provided that comprises a computing component and a plurality of robotic devices. The computing component may comprise a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. In addition the computing component is capable of communicating with the plurality of robotic devices over a network.

The computing component may be configured to receive information associated with task logs for the plurality of robotic devices. The task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. The computing component may also be configured to determine information associated with hazardous situations based on the information associated with the task logs. For example the hazardous situations may include situations associated with failures of one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices. The computing component may be further configured to receive information associated with a contextual situation of a first robotic device of the plurality of robotic devices. Furthermore the computing component may be configured to provide an alert via the network indicating a potential failure of the first robotic device when the information associated with the contextual situation is consistent with information associated with one or more hazardous situations.

The plurality of robotic devices may be configured to transmit via the network information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices and information associated with contextual situations of the plurality of robotic devices.

In yet further examples any type of devices may be used or configured as means for performing functions of any of the methods described herein or any portions of the methods described herein .

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part hereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia methods and systems for determining a potential failure or other status of a robotic device. An example method includes receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. In some instances the information associated with the task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. In one instance the information associated with the task logs may indicate tasks performed by one or more of the plurality of robotic devices that caused one or more components of a robotic device to malfunction or need repair. In another instance the information associated with the task logs may indicate where or when a given task was performed. In yet another instance the information may include an indication of whether a task assigned to a given robotic device was completed.

The example method may also include a computing system having a processor and a memory determining information associated with hazardous situations based on the information associated with the task logs. In some examples the hazardous situations may include situations associated with failures of one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices. For example an analysis of the information associated with the tasks logs may indicate one or more tasks or environments affecting the failures. Example components may comprise sensors actuators processors motors wheels or gears among other possible components.

In another example information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices and or components of the plurality of robotic devices may be determined based on the information associated with the task logs. Information associated with respective health levels of the one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices associated with the failures may also be determined.

The method may further include determining information associated with a contextual situation of a first robotic device of the plurality of robotic devices. The information associated with the contextual situation may include but is not limited to information associated with an environment in which the first robotic device resides operates or is configured to operate and or information associated with a health level for one or more components of the first robotic device.

When the information associated with the contextual situation is consistent with information associated with the one or more hazardous situations an alert indicating a potential failure of the first robotic device may be provided. For example the alert may be provided to a manager of a fleet of connected robotic devices comprising the plurality of robotic devices. Thus based on the determined information associated with hazardous situations in some examples when a given robotic device is prone to experiencing a failure of one or more components as evidenced by prior failures of components of the plurality of robotic devices a potential failure of the one or more components may be predicted and or avoided.

Referring now to the figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or a group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing client devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the client devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific client devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more client devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more or fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the cloud infrastructure .

The system includes a number of client devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer client devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of client devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the client devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer etc. and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone etc. .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone etc. that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the client devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers encoders infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

An example illustration of a robotic device is shown in . In one example the robotic device is configured as a robot. In some examples a robot may contain computer hardware such as a processor memory or data storage and one or more sensors . For example a robot controller e.g. processor computing system and sensors may all be custom designed for a specific robot. The robot may have a link to access cloud servers as shown in . A wired link may include for example a parallel bus or a serial bus such as a Universal Serial Bus USB . A wireless link may include for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 Cellular such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robotic device and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robotic device based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot. Example sensors may include a camera smoke sensors light sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones speakers gyroscope accelerometer distance sensors encoders a camera radar capacitive sensors and touch sensors etc. Example distance sensors include infrared ranging sensors photoelectric distance sensors proximity sensors ultrasonic sensors radar or other types of sensors that may provide outputs used to determine a distance of the robotic device to an object.

The robotic device may also have components or devices that allow the robotic device to interact with an environment of the robotic device . For example the robotic device may have a camera to provide images of a field of view of the environment as well as mechanical actuators such as motors wheels movable arms etc. that enable the robotic device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the robotic device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from the robotic device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the robotic device may be configured to receive a device such as device that includes the processor the storage and the sensors . For example the robotic device may be a robot that has a number of mechanical actuators e.g. a movable base and the robot may be configured to receive a mobile telephone to function as the brains or control components of the robot. The device may be considered a module of the robot. The device may be physically attached to the robot or in communication with the robot. For example a mobile phone may sit on a robot s chest and form an interactive display. The device may provide a robot with sensors a wireless link and processing capabilities for example. The device may allow a user to download new routines for his or her robot from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select this routine using a mobile phone to download the routine from the cloud. When the mobile phone is placed into or coupled to the robot the robot would be able to perform the downloaded action.

In some examples the robotic device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the robotic device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the robotic device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen etc. that are included within the device .

In one example the robot may be a toy with only limited mechanical functionality and by connecting the device to the robot the toy robot may now be capable of performing a number of functions with the aid of the device and or the cloud. In this manner the robot or components of a robot can be attached to a mobile phone to transform the mobile phone into a robot e.g. with legs arms that is connected to a server to cause operation functions of the robot.

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management etc. to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software and other examples. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework etc.

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send data to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data from the cloud. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the internet.

The cloud may receive input from several robots. Data from each robot may be complied into a larger data set. For example the robot may take a picture of an object and upload the picture to the cloud . An object recognition program in the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the picture and provide data to all the robots connected to the cloud about the recognized object as well as possibly about other characteristics e.g. metadata of the recognized object such as a location size weight color etc. Thus every robot may be able to know attributes of an object in a photo uploaded by the robot .

The robots and may perform any number of actions with an area people other robots etc. In one example each robot and has WiFi or other network based connectivity and will upload publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with any other robot. In this manner each robot and shares experiences with each other to enable learned behaviors. Each robot and will have access to real time up to date data. Overall the robots and may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot and can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot.

The database may be accessible by all robots through the cloud or alternatively directly accessible by all robots without communication through the cloud . The database may thus be a shared knowledge base stored in the cloud . In some examples robots may share learned behaviors through the cloud . The cloud may have a server that stores robot learned activities or behaviors resulting in a shared knowledge base of behaviors and heuristics for object interactions e.g. a robot app store .

Thus within examples the robots and may share information through the cloud and may access the database . The robots and may access the cloud to perform any number of functions or methods described herein.

In one example information associated with tasks or functions performed by the robots may be logged or stored by the robots or in the cloud . Data analysis of the logs may be performed on the logs to facilitate decisions or actions associated with the robots .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the block diagram shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor or computing device for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

Initially at block the method includes receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. In one example the plurality of robotic devices may publish task statuses associated with tasks or functions performed by the plurality of robotic devices to a database. Example tasks include navigating through an environment picking up objects with different grips transporting objects capturing an image of an object etc.

The information associated with task logs may be stored in a database. The database may also include information from other robotic devices similar to the robotic devices. Other types of information associated with the task logs may include information indicating a contextual situation associated with performance of a task or function. For example the contextual situation may include information associated with an environment in which the task or function was performed or information associated with a health level of a robotic device or component of a robotic device . In yet another example the information associated with the tasks logs may include an indication of whether a task assigned to a robotic device was completed without error or failure or an amount of time associated with performance of the task or function.

The information associated with the task logs may be received at a server residing in the cloud at a computing device coupled to a robotic device and or at a robotic device for example.

At block the method includes in a computing system having a processor and a memory determining information associated with hazardous situations based on the information associated with the task logs. In some examples the hazardous situations may include situations associated with failures of one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices. For example an analysis of the information associated with the tasks logs may indicate one or more tasks or environments affecting the failures. Data mining the information associated with the task logs may reveal an area where previous robotic devices may have failed e.g. navigating around a corner of a room on a surface that provides less traction than other surfaces of the room may have caused multiple robotic devices to overturn or a task affecting the failures e.g. lifting an object weighing greater than a threshold amount may have resulted in stripped or slipped gears for multiple robotic devices .

In another example information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices and or components of the plurality of robotic devices may be determined based on the information associated with the task logs. For example information associated with a component of the robotic device may be received from a sensor of the robotic device. The information associated with the component may include a temperature amount of light amount of power draw e.g. amount of current or amount of wattage battery life audio information e.g. a decibel level or audio clip visual information such as images videos etc. among other possibilities. A health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current ability of the given robotic device to perform a function. In some instances a robotic device that is new or unused may have a first level of ability however data mining the information associated with the task logs may indicate that at a time after the robotic device has performed the task a certain number of times the robotic device may have a second level of ability that is lower than the first level.

For example the first level may be associated with an ability to perform a given task repeatedly generating a result that is repeatable within a first amount of tolerance. The second level may be associated with a result that is repeatable within a second amount of tolerance that is greater than the first amount i.e. a less precise result . In one instance the decrease in ability may be due to wear and tear caused by previous performances of the task. Thus the ability may change over time throughout a lifespan of the robotic device and the current ability may be reflected in a given health level.

In some examples the information associated with the respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices may include or reflect an estimate of an expected remaining lifespan for one or more or each of the robotic devices. For example based on data mining or other types of analysis of the information associated with the task logs an estimate of a time of failure need for maintenance work etc. may be determined by the computing system. In one instance the estimate may be a relative metric with respect to the plurality of robotic devices. In other instances the estimate may be an absolute amount of time or a future date.

The computing system may determine the information associated with the health level for the plurality of robotic devices by querying a database and receiving the information. Alternatively the computing system may make the determination by processing data received from the plurality of robotic devices such as to determine success and failures of completion of prior tasks.

In one instance given the determined information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices information associated with respective health levels of the one or more components of the plurality of robotic devices associated with the failures may then be identified and logged.

At block the method includes determining information associated with a contextual situation of a first robotic device of the plurality of robotic devices. The information associated with the contextual situation may include but is not limited to information associated with an environment in which the first robotic device resides operates or is configured to operate information associated with a task assigned to the first robotic device and information associated with a health level for one or more components of the first robotic device.

Based on the information associated with the contextual situation and the information associated with the one or more hazardous situations a decision may be made at block . In some instances the decision at block may include comparing the information associated with the contextual situation of the first robotic device with a database comprising information associated with the one or more hazardous situations. For example an environment of the first robotic device may be compared with a list of one or more environments associated with hazardous situations. In another example a task assigned to the first robotic device may be compared with a list of one or more tasks associated with hazardous situations. In yet another example a health level of the first robotic device or a component of the first robotic device may be compared to respective health levels associated with robotic devices that have previously experienced failures.

In one example when the information associated with the contextual situation is consistent with information associated with the one or more hazardous situations at block the method may include providing an alert indicating a potential failure of the first robotic device.

In some examples the method may optionally include at block the robotic device performing a preventive action. For instance in response to receiving the alert indicating a potential failure the first robotic device may stop change speed discontinue performing a task etc. Other examples are also contemplated.

For example the contextual situation of the first robotic device may be such that the first robotic device has entered an area where according to the information associated with the hazardous situations previous robotic devices have experienced failures. Based on the comparison an alert may be provided to the first robotic device a user or owner of the first robotic device e.g. by sending a message to a device of the user or owner by the robotic device displaying or speaking the alert to the user or owner or via other manners as well a manager of a fleet of robotic devices including the plurality of robotic devices etc.

In another instance when the first robotic device is assigned a task or function that caused other similar or same robotic devices or other robotic devices utilizing a same or similar component as a component of the first robotic device utilized for performance of the task or function to experience failures an alert of the potential for failure may be provided.

In another example when the information associated with the contextual situation is not consistent with the information associated with the one or more hazardous situations the method may restart at block . In another example the method may restart at either block or not shown when the information associated with the contextual situation is not consistent with the information associated with the one or more hazardous situations.

In one instance the method may also include determining information associated with contextual situations of additional robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices. Alerts may also be provided when the information associated with the contextual situations is consistent with information associated with the one or more hazardous situations. In some examples real time information may be received from the plurality of robotic devices. The information may include contextual situations of the plurality of robotic devices and tasks assigned to the plurality of robotic devices for example.

In some instances the method may also include determining gradient risk scales associated with one or more environments tasks or contextual situations. For example a given risk scale may be proportional to a probability of failure associated with one or more environments. As an example the gradient risk scales may include a high risk medium risk and low risk scale. Other example gradients may include risk scales rated on a numerical scale e.g. on a scale of one to ten where one is low risk and ten is high risk . Furthermore in some examples if an alert is provided the alert may indicate a risk scale associated with an environment of a robotic device e.g. Alert This area is associated with a High Risk .

In some examples the method may be performed by a robotic device. For example the robotic device may query a server for the information associated with the task logs and receive from the server the task logs. A computing system of the robotic device may determine the information associated with the hazardous situations receive the information associated with the contextual situation compare the information associated with the contextual situation and the hazardous situations and provide the alerts as needed. In one instance the first robotic device may be the robotic device performing the method .

In other examples the method may be performed by a server e.g. a server in a cloud . The information received from the plurality of robotic devices may be stored in a database. The database may include historical and or real time data from the plurality of robotic devices. A computing system of the server in the cloud may determine the information associated with hazardous situations compare the information to received information associated with contextual situations and provide the alerts as needed.

In some examples a display may be provided to a user of the robotic device or manager of a fleet of robotic devices as part of or in addition to an alert. is an example conceptual illustration of a display of a health level of a component of a robotic device. In one instance an alert may indicate that robotic devices with a component performance that is less than about 25 are at risk of a potential failure when performing a given task.

As shown in the display may include information associated with a plurality of robotic devices. In one instance one or more percentile curves may indicate typical performance of a component versus a life of the component as determined from information associated with task logs. Additionally the performance of the component of the robotic device may be shown by an individual curve relative to performances of components of the plurality of robotic devices.

In one example the display may also include component statistics . The statistics may be associated with performance of the component of the robotic device. Optionally the statistics may also include a graphical indicator illustrating a relationship of the component to an average value e.g. an upward pointing triangle may indicate the statistic is greater than the average value a downward pointing triangle may indicate the statistic is less than the average value etc. . The average value may be determined based on real time data from the plurality of robotic devices and or historical data associated with the plurality of robotic devices.

In some examples the display may be accessed via a web interface connected to a server in a cloud. For example an alert may provide a link to a webpage comprising the display . In other examples the display may be provided on a display associated with the robotic device and configured to receive information from the server in the cloud. In one instance the display may further include information indicating on screen alerts based on a contextual situation as determined by the server in the cloud not shown .

In some instances the information associated with the hazardous situations may be beneficial for efficiently recalling products or components of robotic devices. is a block diagram of an example method of providing a recommendation of a recall. The method shown in presents an embodiment of a method that may for example be used by the system of and may be performed by a device such as any devices illustrated in or components of the devices. Method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in a sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed from the method based upon the desired implementation of the method. Each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. In addition each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process. In one example one or more blocks of the method may be combined with the method of .

Initially at block the method includes determining information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with the task logs. As described above information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices and or components of the plurality of robotic devices may be determined based on the information associated with the task logs. In some instances a health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current ability of the given robotic device to perform a function. In other examples the information associated with the respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices may include or reflect an estimate of an expected remaining lifespan for one or more or each of the robotic devices.

In yet another example the information associated with a health level for the given robotic device may include indicators or symptoms associated with a component that may be malfunctioning in need of repair calibration etc. For example a sensor associated with a component may exhibit a sensor value that is outside of a typical range for the sensor. In another instance a component may return error messages or codes during operation perform erratically or unexpectedly power down unexpectedly or require rebooting etc.

At block the method includes determining information associated with a product utilized by one or more robotic devices. The product utilized by the robotic device may be determined to be a product affecting failures of one or more components of the robotic devices.

For example information associated with task logs for the plurality of robotic devices may be used determined to information associated with hazardous situations. In one instance the information associated with the hazardous situations may reveal a common product or component utilized by one or more robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices experiencing the failures while performing a task or a function. In a further instance the information associated with the hazardous situations may be used to determine an average health level associated with the robotic devices experiencing the failures while utilizing the product.

In another example information associated with a product recall may be broadcasted by a manufacturer or distributor of a product. The information may include symptoms associated with the product reported by entities experiencing problems with the product. For instance the symptoms may have shown prior to or during a problem or failure experienced while utilizing the product.

At block the method includes providing a recommendation of a recall of the product from robotic devices. In the instance in which a common product or component affecting the failures is determined a recommendation to recall the product from robotic devices utilizing the product and having similar health levels as a given health level associated with the one or more robotic devices associated with the failures may be provided.

In the instance in which information associated with a recall of a product is broadcasted the information associated with the respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices may be employed to provide a recommendation of a recall of the product from robotic devices utilizing the product and demonstrating similar symptoms as the reported symptoms. Thus logging the information associated with the tasks logs and the hazardous situations may in some examples allow for a smart recall such that robotic devices at risk of a failure as indicated by the demonstrated symptoms are recalled.

In one instance the information associated with hazardous situations and contextual situations may be compared to the information associated with preventive maintenance. For example data mining of the information associated with the hazardous situations may indicate that a contextual situation of a given robotic device suggests the given robotic device is at risk of a failure. For example multiple robotic devices with a similar health level as the robotic device may have failed previously. Additionally the information may reveal that modifying a time when the given robotic device is scheduled for preventive maintenance may alleviate the situation. In one instance the maintenance may be performed prior to the robotic device continuing to perform a task or function. Thus the scheduled maintenance time may be modified to reduce the risk of a potential failure.

In another instance the information may reveal that an interval for performing preventive maintenance may be too short. For example determining the information associated with preventive maintenance may include performing a cost benefit analysis based on the information associated with the task logs and the information associated with the hazardous situations.

In one example the information associated with task logs may indicate that robotic devices operating beyond a time when preventive maintenance was scheduled to occur may continue to operate without increasing a potential risk of failure. Thus the scheduled preventive maintenance interval may be increased to reduce costs due to wasted preventive maintenance.

In another example the information associated with the hazardous situations may be used to determine an optimal time for performing preventive maintenance replacement of a component. In some instances data mining of the information associated with the task logs may be used to determine a failure rate of a component over time. For example the failure rate may increase over time due to wear and tear. A component failure prior to preventive maintenance replacement of the component may be associated with corrective maintenance replacement costs e.g. incident costs cost of replacement failure costs etc. to correct a failure. Also preventive maintenance replacement of a component may be associated with preventive replacement costs e.g. cost of maintenance . In many cases the costs of preventive replacement may be less than the costs of corrective replacement.

As shown in given an increasing failure rate over time corrective replacement costs per unit time may increase over time based on an increasing likelihood of failure over time. This concept is conceptually illustrated by corrective replacement costs curve . Moreover preventive replacement costs may decrease over time as shown by the preventive replacement costs curve . This may be explained by considering that as more time passes fewer replacement opportunities i.e. non failures may remain.

A goal of determining the optimal time for performing preventive maintenance replacement of the component may involve minimizing the sum of corrective replacement costs and preventive replacement costs per unit time. The total cost curve shows example total costs of preventive maintenance replacement per unit time.

Given a failure rate over time determined from the information associated with the task logs a computing system may be able to determine the optimal time for performing preventive maintenance replacement. In one instance a suggested time T may be too early with respect to an optimal time Tmin such that many components are replaced before being at risk of failure leading to large preventive replacement costs. In another instance a suggested time T may be too late with respect to the optimal time Tmin such that corrective replacement costs are unnecessarily high due to a high number of failures. Thus the scheduled time for preventive maintenance replacement may be adjusted to an earlier instance in time such as the case of T or a later instance in time such as the case of T in order to reduce costs.

In other examples the information associated with hazardous situations and the information associated with the task logs may be used to determine information associated with operational ranges for the plurality of robotic devices. For example an operational range of a component may be reduced when the information associated with the hazardous situations indicates the decrease will reduce an amount of failures of the plurality of robotic devices. In one instance multiple robotic devices may have failed when attempting to lift an object over 10 pounds even though an operational range provided by a manufacturer indicates the robotic device is capable of lifting objects up to 12 pounds. In another example an operational range may be increased when the information associated with the task logs indicates a number of the plurality of robotic devices have performed tasks involving performance outside of an operational range of performance provided by a manufacturer.

The operational ranges may apply to components of the robotic devices in some examples. In one instance a manufacturer may recommend that a battery of a robotic device be replaced after an amount of time e.g. 1 year 200 cycles etc. . Information associated with the task logs may indicate an average battery voltage over time versus activity of the device. A battery voltage over time versus activity of a first device may be compared to the average battery voltage over time versus activity to determine whether a battery needs to be replaced. In some instances an alert may be provided when the comparison indicates the battery voltage characteristics of the first device are below average even though the recommended amount of time has not elapsed. In addition the information associated with the adjusted operational ranges may be provided as feedback to manufacturers in some examples.

Although the systems and methods have been described with respect to robotic devices the systems and methods may also be applicable to monitoring any cloud connected devices e.g. cars phones tablets etc. . Given a fleet of similar devices publishing information associated with components of the devices to a cloud a central computing system in the cloud may be capable of monitoring status and health of the components or the devices based on historical logs of data associated with the components devices and or real time data received from the devices as well as determining hazardous situations and providing alerts.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

