---

title: Managing an inventory comprising serialized products
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to a method for fulfilling orders from an inventory comprising serialized products. For example, a computer system may receive an order and derive from the order a plurality of products, a unit quantity for each of the plurality of products, and a serial identifier referencing a first product unit of at least one of the plurality of products. At least one of the plurality of products may be a non-reserved product. Also, the computer system may determine a first bin selected from a plurality of non-reserved product bins that is associated with product units of the non-reserved product and generate a pick instruction specifying the first bin and the unit quantity of the non-reserved product specified by the order. The computer system may also instruct a robot to retrieve the first product unit from one of the plurality of robot accessible bins. The robot may be programmed to load product units to the plurality of robot-accessible bins and retrieve product units from the plurality of robot-accessible bins.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09434543&OS=09434543&RS=09434543
owner: BRIGHTSTAR CORP.
number: 09434543
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151204
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 064 710 filed on Oct. 28 2013 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 848 815 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 571 700 filed on Aug. 2 2010. This application is also a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 462 260 filed Aug. 18 2014 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 848 811 filed on Aug. 2 2010. All of the applications listed above are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Serialized products are products where each unit is described by a unique serial identifier. A product unit s serial identifier may be used to facilitate activation of the product unit and in some cases is also used during operation. Network devices such as mobile telephones smart phones net books mobile modems etc. are examples of serialized products. During the activation process a network device s serial identifier is associated with an end user or account. When the network device attempts to access a proprietary or subscription based network the device s serial identifier may be utilized to determine whether the device is authorized for access e.g. based on whether the serial identifier is associated with an account in good standing based on whether the associated account provides for the requested service etc. .

Serialized products may also provide other features including for example theft prevention and product tracking. For theft prevention each product unit may be stocked in a disabled state. During the sales process the seller may activate the product unit by storing its serial identifier at a central network location in a manner indicating that the product unit is authorized to activate. When an end user attempts to turn the product unit on the product unit may contact the central network location. The product unit may turn on only if its unique identifier is indicated to be activated. Because product unit activation takes place during payment an unauthorized user of the unit e.g. a thief may not be able to use it. For product tracking a unique identifier may be used to monitor the life of a product unit including for example sales to an end user repair instances returns etc.

It is important for retailers of serialized products to match each purchaser or end user with a specific product unit. For example an end user of a mobile telephone must be provided with the specific mobile telephone unit that was activated on the end user s account. Otherwise the end user s mobile network carrier will not recognize the mobile telephone as being associated with the end user s account. Also the end user of a theft protected product must be provided with a product unit that has been activated at the central network location. Otherwise the end user will not be able to use the product unit.

Product and end user matching can be relatively simple at a retail location where the serialized products are physically in stock. For example a retail clerk may pick a product unit from stock to initiate activation. Activating the product unit may involve initiating a contract between the end user and a network service provider adding the product unit to an existing service provider account marking the product unit as activated at a central network location etc. The activation may be performed by the retailer or a separate activation entity e.g. a mobile network or service provider . If the activation is successful then the picked product unit may be sold to the end user. If the activation fails the clerk can physically return the unit to stock. According to this example however the end user must buy the product at a physical store location. Also the retailer must carry enough product stock at each retail location to satisfy all potential end users at that location or risk losing business.

Warehouse based sales of serialized products overcome some of the short comings of in stock retailing. For example retailers that sell serialized products from a warehouse may not need to keep as much in store inventory. Also warehouse based sales may eliminate the need for purchasers to buy serialized products at physical store locations altogether. Internet mail order telephone and other communications techniques may be used. In addition to these advantages however warehouse based sales of serialized products introduce enormous complexities and problems of their own. For example a single warehouse typically services multiple retail locations and or on line retailers resulting in much higher sales volume than a single physical store location. It is much more difficult to match a product unit to an order as the number of product units in stock and the number of orders increase. Accordingly systems and methods are needed to control and scale the process of serialized product inventory management.

Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for managing and distributing an inventory including serialized products. Each unit of a serialized product may be described by a unique serial identifier. The serial identifier of a product unit may be associated with the product unit itself e.g. an International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI or other serial number . In addition or instead a product unit s serial identifier may be associated with a potentially removable component of the product unit. For example the product unit s serial identifier may comprise a Subscriber Identity Module SIM number or Media Access Control MAC address associated with a card or other hardware or software installed in the product unit. In some embodiments a product unit s serial identifier may comprise both a portion associated with the unit itself and a portion associated with a unit component. For example the serial identifier of some network devices may comprise both a SIM number and an identifier specific to the unit.

In some embodiments the inventory may also comprise non reserved products. Non reserved products may comprise non serialized products and or non reserved serialized products. Non serialized products may include any sort of product that either does not have a unique serial identifier or does not require that specific product units be matched with end users. For example in the context of mobile phone sales non serialized products may include accessories such as chargers ear pieces etc. Non reserved serialized products may be serialized products that are stocked for sale without activation. For example some purchasers of serialized products may activate the serialized product units after purchase eliminating the requirement that individual product units be matched with individual end users at the time of purchase.

The inventory may be stored at one or more warehouse facilities. Each warehouse facility may comprise a plurality of inventory bins where each bin connotes any specific location where inventory may be stored. For example a bin may refer to a physical container for holding product items and or simply to a location on a shelf. One or more of the warehouse facilities may comprise a robot or other automated picking unit configured to place product units at and retrieve product units from the inventory bins. The operation of the robot and of other aspects of the warehouse facilities may be directed by a computerized warehouse control system or other suitable computer system or systems. According to various embodiments at least a portion of the inventory bins for serialized products may be configured to hold a single product unit such that there is a one to one relationship between a serialized product unit and a corresponding inventory bin.

The inventory may be managed and or tracked by a computerized product reservation system. The product reservation system may monitor the status and location of each serialized product unit of the inventory and may handle orders for product units. Orders may be received from computerized requesting systems. For example the product reservation system may receive directly or indirectly from a requesting system an order specifying a first serialized product. If a unit of the first serialized product is available the product reservation system may reserve the unit and provide the unit s serial identifier to the requesting system. The requesting system may subsequently confirm or release the order. For example the requesting system may utilize the product unit s serial identifier to attempt to activate the product unit. If the identified product unit is successfully activated the requesting system may confirm the order. If the identified product unit is not successfully activated e.g. the end user s contract is declined the end user decides not to complete the transaction etc. then the requesting system may release the order. It will be appreciated that activation may be performed by the requesting system or by a separate activation entity e.g. a service or network provider . Upon confirmation the warehouse control system may pick the reserved product unit and provide the unit to the customer and or end user e.g. ship the product unit to the customer or end user . For example the automated picking unit may pick the reserved product unit from a known inventory bin. If the order is released the product reservation system may release the reserved product unit making it available for additional orders. It will be appreciated that the activation process may be transparent to the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system.

According to various embodiments the systems and methods described herein may be utilized by a distributor entity to make the inventory available to be sold to and or by one or more customer entities e.g. and units thereof . For example orders for serialized products may originate from purchasers through a customer entity. The customer entity e.g. via a requesting system may generate the order based on the desired purchase of its purchaser. Once the order is provided to the warehouse distributor entity it may be filled as described herein.

The robot may be or comprise any suitable type of automated pick and place device. For example the robot is described herein as a robot arm that is slidable on a rail to place and remove product units at robot accessible bins locations See . According to various embodiments such a robot may be obtained from WYNRIGHT INTERLOGISTICS of Elk Grove Ill. It will be appreciated however that the robot may comprise any other type of automated picking device configured to respond to commands in the manner described herein to store and retrieve product units. Examples of other known automating picking devices include automated fork lifts automated shelving units automated carrousel systems automated mini loaders automated vacuum delivery systems automated sorters etc.

The product reservation system may track and or manage the inventory. For example the product reservation system may track and maintain data describing the status of product units included in the inventory. The data may be stored for example at one or more data stores . The product reservation system may track the status of all products in the inventory or in various embodiments may track the status of serialized products only. illustrates a block diagram of one embodiment of a basic data structure that may be used by the product reservation system for keeping data describing the inventory. The data structure is described to illustrate the types of data that may be kept by the product reservation system regarding the status of the inventory.

According to the example data structure each unit of serialized products may be individually assigned a status and activation information. For each serialized product unit the data structure may indicate a product a unique serial identifier an inventory bin where the product unit is located a status and activation information . The activation information may describe the activation process including for example an activation entity for activating the product unit a status of an activation of the product unit etc. It will be appreciated that although the activation process may be managed by the requesting system or separate activation entity in some embodiments the product reservation system or other component of the system may manage and or perform activation. According to various embodiments each indicated inventory bin may comprise only one product unit or may comprise multiple product units. Also in embodiments utilizing the robot the robot may have a plurality of assigned inventory bins and may place and retrieve product units at its assigned inventory bins in a manner that is transparent to the product reservation system . For example the data structure kept by the product reservation system may simply indicate that the corresponding product unit is at an inventory bin assigned to the robot .

The status of a product unit may generally indicate whether the product unit may be used to fulfill orders. For example a product unit may be indicated as available if it is in stock and is not currently promised to an existing order. The product unit may be indicated as un available if it is in stock and assigned to an existing order. In various embodiments the status may indicate gradations of availability and unavailability. For example a product unit that is assigned to an order that has not yet been confirmed or released may be indicated as reserved. If the order is confirmed e.g. if serialized product activation was successful then the status of the product unit may be indicated as confirmed or reserved confirmed while the product unit remains in stock. If an order is released e.g. if the serialized product activation is unsuccessful or the purchaser decides not to complete the purchase the status of the product unit may be returned to available. In various embodiments if an order is cancelled without being released by the requesting system e.g. indicating that an internal event caused order cancellation then the status of the product unit may be indicated as quarantined until the integrity of the product unit can be confirmed. Confirming the integrity of the product unit may comprise for example visually inspecting the product unit electronically scanning the product unit for physically integrity manually or automatically verifying that the product unit is associated with the correct serial identifier at the product reservation system . This may prevent potentially defective or mislabeled product units from being used to fulfill future orders. According to various embodiments orders may released and or confirmed either partially or completely. For example a partial confirmation or release may correspond to less than all of the product units indicated by the order.

According to various embodiments the product reservation system may manage non reserved products such as non serialized products and non reserved serialized products in addition to serialized products. Accordingly the example data structure may also include entries for non serialized products and non reserved serialized products . Because non serialized and non reserved serialized products need not be uniquely delivered to end users it may not be necessary to track unique information about each non serialized or non reserved serialized product unit. Accordingly the example data structure need only comprise one entry for each product type although multiple entries for a single non serialized or non reserved serialized product type may be used in some circumstances . For each product type the example data structure may indicate a product name a quantity of the product in stock and an inventory bin or bins where units of the product are located . If there are multiple inventory bins comprising units of the product then a quantity of product units in each inventory bin may also be indicated.

Referring back to the warehouse control system may manage the operations of the warehouse facility . For example the warehouse control system may manage the intake of new product units including for example new serialized product units. Intake may comprise receiving new product units and placing the product units at inventory bins . The warehouse control system may also manage the fulfillment of confirmed product orders. Fulfillment of a confirmed order may comprise picking product units including specific serialized product units to complete an order. In some embodiments fulfillment of an order may also comprise packing and or shipping the order utilizing packing shipping facilities performing quality control etc. The warehouse control system may manage the operations of the warehouse facilities in a manual automated or mixed manner. According to manual methods product picking may be performed manually. The warehouse control system may generate intake and or pick instructions and in various embodiments may also receive reports of intake and or picking progress e.g. scans indicating product location . According to automated methods the warehouse control system may utilize the robot to perform intake and or picking. Data used to execute the functionality of the warehouse control system may be stored at one or more data stores . The warehouse control system may be comprised of various custom and or off the shelf components. For example according to various embodiments the warehouse control system may utilize a third party warehouse management system such as the RADIO BEACON product available from ACCELLOS of Colorado Springs Colo.

In various embodiments the product reservation system and or warehouse control system may be in communication with a computerized enterprise resource planning ERP system . The ERP system may be any suitable system for managing business operations including for example assets inventory and accounting functions. According to various embodiments the ERP system may be in electronic communication with one or more data stores storing business entity related information. Example ERP systems are available from ORACLE JD EDWARDS and SAP. The ERP system may maintain inventory status records but in the context of business and accounting rules. For example the status of a product unit in the ERP system may change only upon a change of the unit s business or accounting status e.g. when a payment is owed when physical stock is assigned to a confirmed order etc. . Reserving a product unit for an un confirmed order may not be such an event. Accordingly the inventory status data maintained by the ERP system may indicate that a product unit is available until the product unit is assigned to a confirmed order. In some embodiments the ERP system may also be in communication with a customer ERP system . The customer ERP system may be implemented by a customer business entity that purchases product units from the inventory. The ERP system may be in communication with the customer ERP system to exchange information regarding pending and completed orders for product units from the inventory.

A maintenance interface may be implemented by one or more of the systems of the system and may allow various users to access and maintain the various components of the system . According to various embodiments the product reservation system warehouse control system warehouse facility and ERP system may be implemented by a single business distributor business entity e.g. a warehouse and distribution entity . It will be appreciated however that the functionalities of the components comprising the system may be distributed across more or fewer business entities according to any suitable configuration. Also according to various embodiments all or a portion of the functionality of the product reservation system and or warehouse control system may be implemented by an enterprise resource planning system such as .

The requesting system shown in may originate orders directly or indirectly to system e.g. via the product reservation system the ERP system etc. . The requesting system may be configured in any suitable form. For example according to various embodiments the requesting system may comprise a software front end such as a Web based front end provided by the distributor entity to customers for receiving product orders. Also according to various embodiments the requesting system may comprise a software front end such as a Web based front end specific to a customer business entity or unit thereof for transferring product orders from the customer business entity to the product reservation system . For example the product reservation system may operate according to a defined communication interface. Requesting systems may be designed by various parties to communicate with the product reservation system the ERP system or both via the defined interface. According to various embodiments the requesting system may also manage the product unit activation process either directly or via a separate activation entity not shown . Although only one requesting system is shown it will be appreciated that multiple requesting systems may be in contact with and providing orders to the system e.g. via the product reservation system and or inventory interface system shown in .

According to various embodiments the requesting system may be a consumer facing interface deployed by the distributor entity and or a customer business entity or unit thereof. For example the customer business entity or unit thereof may act as a retailer selling products from the inventory through a requesting system that may be branded for the customer business entity or unit. When a purchaser orders a product from the inventory the customer business entity or unit may purchase the product from the distributor entity and then re sell the product to the purchaser. The requesting system may be made available to potential purchasers according to any suitable method including for example via the Internet via a kiosk present at a retail location etc. Potential purchasers may use the requesting system directly to view the inventory and place orders. When a potential purchaser views a product from the inventory for example the requesting system may make an availability request to the product reservation system and display to the potential purchaser whether the viewed item is available and in various embodiments how many units are in stock. In some embodiments the requesting system may be intended for use by a clerk employee or agent of the customer business entity. For example a potential purchaser may come into contact with the clerk at a retail location. The clerk may facilitate the potential purchasers order of a serialized product utilizing the requesting system . It will further be appreciated that in some embodiments the requesting system as shown may be omitted and orders may be received by the product reservation system directly from a customer ERP . For example the customer ERP or other order originating device may be generally referred to as the requesting system.

At the requesting system may send an order to the product reservation system . The order may indicate at least one serialized product. The order may be received by the product reservation system for example via the transaction coordinator. In response to the order the product reservation system may identify an available unit of the indicated serialized product. The available unit may be physically located at a warehouse facility . Provided that a unit of the serialized product is available the product reservation system may reserve the unit at . For example the product reservation system may change the status of the unit from available to unavailable e.g. at data store s . Because the product unit is not yet assigned to a confirmed order it may still be indicated as available by the ERP system . An indication of the unit s serial identifier may be provided to the requesting system . The requesting system may utilize the serial identifier to activate the reserved product unit for example as described herein.

According to various embodiments the system e.g. the product reservation system may comprise functionality for implementing business rules for determining whether to reserve available units of a product for an order and or whether to indicate available products in response to an availability request. There may be circumstances where the distributor entity will not reserve additional units of a serialized product even if those units are available e.g. in stock and not reserved to any other orders . For example for some products e.g. new or popular products different customer business entities and or units thereof may be allocated a threshold number of product units or a limited number of product units over a given period of time. The threshold may be defined by a catalog associated with the customer business entity or unit. If an order from a customer business entity or unit exceeds the threshold number of product units the order may be refused. Likewise if a business entity s threshold has been exceeded an availability request from a requesting system associated with the business entity may indicate that no units are available. The thresholds assigned to different customer business entities and units may be determined according to any suitable methods. In some embodiments thresholds may be set based on contracts between a customer business entity and the distributor entity and or based on the level of business provided to the distributor entity by the customer business entity. For example customers that regularly purchase large quantities of the inventory may be given higher thresholds. In various embodiments customer business entities may be divided into tiers e.g. based on historic purchase levels . Customer business entities in a common tier may have the same thresholds for one or more products. A customer business entity or unit s tier may be indicated for example in the entity or unit s catalog.

Additional business rules may be based on the popularity of certain products. For example certain products may be assigned a limited sell through rate e.g. based on popularity . The sell through rate may be specific to a business entity or unit or may generally apply to all customer entities or units. In this way the distributor entity may maintain the stock of a given product despite its popularity. If an order would cause a product to exceed the desired sell through rate either generally or for the requesting customer business entity or unit then it may be denied and or delayed. Also business rules may be based on order size. The system may be configured to refuse orders specifying a number of serialized units exceeding a predetermined size. Finally some business rules may be based on the credit rating of a customer entity or unit thereof. If a customer entity or unit does not have a certain credit level orders from that customer entity or unit may be denied.

The requesting system may send a confirmed order at . For example the confirmed order may be sent if the activation of the reserved product unit is successful. In various embodiments the confirmed order may originate from the customer ERP system . The transaction coordinator at may forward the confirmed order to the product reservation system . At the product reservation system may update the status of the product unit based on the confirmed order. For example the product reservation system may change the status of the order to indicate that the product unit has been reserved to a confirmed order. The transaction coordinator at may also indicate the confirmed order to the ERP system . At the ERP system may mark the product unit as unavailable. In addition the ERP system or the product reservation system may instruct the warehouse control system to pick and ship the order e.g. by generating a pick instruction or instruction as described herein . At the warehouse control system may manage picking of the order.

At step the warehouse control system may manage shipment of the order and may indicate shipment to the ERP system . The ERP system may record the order as shipped at . According to various embodiments the ERP system may write shipping information e.g. data shipped address shipped to etc. to a data store or location thereof accessible to other components of the system at . At the shipping information may be sent as a confirmation. The confirmation may be sent by the transaction coordinator the product reservation system the ERP system the warehouse control system or any other suitable component of the system . The system and process flow are described with the use of a separate ERP system . It will be appreciated however that the systems and methods described herein may be practiced without an ERP system . For example the functionality ascribed herein to the ERP system may be performed by one or more of the product reservation system the warehouse control system or any other component of the system .

The process flow illustrated in shows a scenario where an order is confirmed picked and shipped. It will be appreciated however that there are scenarios where an order sent at is not ultimately confirmed picked and shipped. For example when the requesting system receives the serial identifier corresponding to the reserved product unit e.g. after it may initiate an activation of the product unit on behalf of an end user. The end user may be the purchaser or other person or entity that is the intended user of the product unit. For example when the product is a theft secured item the end user may be the individual who is purchasing the product unit. Also for example when the product is a mobile telephone or other network device the end user may be the individual who will use the network device. The end user may be the purchaser of the product unit or may receive it from an intermediate purchasing party e.g. an employer . Provided that the activation is successful the requesting system may confirm the order and the process flow may continue as shown in . If the activation is unsuccessful however the requesting system may send a release of the order instead of the confirmed order. Upon receipt of the release the product reservation system may mark the status of the identified product unit as available. According to various embodiments a product unit may be maintained in a reserved state for a limited period of time. If an order is not confirmed within the limited period of time e.g. if the product unit remains reserved then the product unit may be released and marked as available.

According to various embodiments it may be possible for an order to fail during processing by the systems of the selling distributor entity e.g. at the product reservation system the warehouse control system and or the warehouse facility . For example the product reservation system may refuse an order if no units of the ordered product are available. It is also possible for an order to fail during packing and or shipping e.g. if the identified product unit is damaged etc. . For example when an order is failed by the systems of the selling distributor entity it may indicate an error associated with the product unit or units e.g. a physical defect in the unit an incorrectly scanned or entered serial identifier etc. . In various embodiments when an order fails during processing of the systems of the selling distributor entity the product reservation system may be configured to mark the status of the product unit or units causing the failure as quarantined. The quarantined status of a product unit may be removed upon verification of the unit s status. It will be appreciated that the communication and utilization of the unit s status may be conveyed by one or more systems in communication with the product reservation system.

The process flow illustrates the handling of an order comprising a single serialized product unit. It will be appreciated that the system may also handle orders that comprise multiple serialized products non serialized products and or non reserved serialized products. In a case where the order comprises multiple serialized products the process flow may be performed similar to the manner shown in . Upon receiving the order the product reservation system may reserve all required product units at . Provided that activation of all identified product units is successful the requesting system may confirm all serialized products in the order at . The remaining actions of the process flow may be performed as indicated with each action being performed on each of the identified product units. In the event that one or more of the identified product units cannot be successfully activated or is otherwise cancelled the requesting system may cancel the entire order prompting the product reservation system to release all of the identified product units. Alternatively the requesting system may send a partial confirmed order and a partial release. The product reservation system may fill the portion of the order that is confirmed and release the identified product units corresponding to the partially released portion of the order.

It will also be appreciated that the order may indicate non serialized products or non reserved serialized products. According to various embodiments the order may indicate whether each non serialized or non reserved serialized product request is conditioned upon confirmation of a serialized product request or is independent. If a request is independent then the portion of the order corresponding to the non serialized product or the non reserved serialized product may be forwarded to the ERP system and or warehouse control system for picking and shipping upon receipt. If the request is dependent then it may be held until the associated serialized product request is confirmed. According to various embodiments when an order specifies more than one product unit it may be filled from multiple warehouse facilities . For example if a first product unit from the order is only in stock at a first warehouse facility and a second product from the order is only in stock at a second warehouse facility then units of the products may be picked and shipped from the respective warehouse facilities where they are in stock.

It will be appreciated that the product reservation system may comprise additional functionality as well. For example the product reservation system may respond to availability requests from the requesting system . The requesting system may direct an availability request to the product reservation system . The product reservation system may respond with an indication of whether units of the product are available.

According to various embodiments the functionality attributed to the product reservation system the warehouse control system and the ERP system may be distributed among the systems etc. in any suitable manner. Also although the systems etc. are illustrated in as separate systems it will be appreciated that in practice these systems may be implemented having more or fewer system components than are shown. For example in various embodiments the functionality of the product reservation system and warehouse control system may be implemented by a single computer system. Also in various embodiments the functionality of the product reservation system and warehouse control system may be distributed among more than two computer systems.

As shown in the system A may comprise more than one warehouse facility . In the embodiment shown in a single inventory interface system ERP product reservation system and warehouse control system may be programmed to manage multiple warehouse facilities . For example the inventory bins packing and shipping components etc. of each warehouse may be considered together by the various systems . For example each warehouse component bin robot packing shipping component etc. may have an associated location corresponding to the warehouse facility where the component is present. Instructions from the various systems regarding the component may be directed to the appropriate location warehouse facility . illustrates another embodiment of the system A comprising multiple warehouses . Each warehouse may comprise a separate ERP product reservation system warehouse control system and warehouse facilities . A single inventory interface system may manage both warehouses . For example the inventory interface system may direct orders or portions of orders to the appropriate warehouse . For example if an order requests a product available at warehouse and not at warehouse the order may be directed to warehouse . Also for example if an order recites a first product available at warehouse and a second product available at warehouse the inventory interface system may split the order accordingly.

At the requesting system may generate an availability request. The availability request may be generated for example when a customer agent or potential purchaser requests a portion of the requesting system interface corresponding to a particular product. The availability request may be received by the inventory interface system at . In turn the inventory interface system may forward the availability request to the ERP system at and to the product reservation system at . The ERP system may reply to the availability request by indicating where its records show any units of the requested product in stock. As described above the status kept by the ERP system may not account for product units that are reserved for un confirmed orders. Therefore availability information from the ERP system may be supplemented with availability information received from the product reservation system at . Availability information received from the product reservation system may account for reserved product units. It will be appreciated that in various embodiments the requesting system may submit an order or request the reservation of a serialized product unit without first checking availability. If no product units are available the requesting system request may be denied.

At the requesting system may request that a unit of a serialized product be reserved. The inventory interface system may receive the request and forward it to the product reservation system . In response to the reservation request the product reservation system may reserve a unit of the identified serialized product e.g. by marking a status of the selected product unit at the data store as unavailable . Upon reserving the serialized product unit the product reservation system may send the serial identifier of the reserved unit to the requesting system e.g. via the inventory interface system . As described above the requesting system may utilize the serial identifier to directly or indirectly activate the reserved unit. According to various embodiments the inventory interface system may implement business rules similar to those described above in order to determine whether to reserve a product unit or units in response to the request.

At the requesting system may generate an order including the reserved unit which may be received by the inventory interface system . For example the order generated at may indicate the serial identifier of the product unit reserved by the product reservation system at . It will be appreciated that the order may also specify products other than the reserved serialized product unit including for example other serialized product units one or more non reserved products e.g. non serialized products non reserved serialized products etc. . According to various embodiments the reservation request action and order creation action may be performed and transmitted simultaneously e.g. the order may serve as the reservation request . In some embodiments the order confirmation action may also occur simultaneously with the reservation request action and the order creation action .

At the requesting system may confirm all or a portion of the order e.g. if the activation of the serialized product unit is successful . The order confirmation may be provided to the ERP system which may generate a fulfillment instruction or pick instruction for the order at . The fulfillment instruction may be provided to the warehouse control system which may allocate the order to one or more inventory bins and or identify the number and type of shipping cartons to be used at . At the warehouse control system may manage the picking of non serialized products and non reserved serialized products if any that are identified by the order. At the product reservation system may manage the picking of serialized products including the identified serialized product unit. For example if the identified serialized product unit is stored at a robot accessible inventory bin the product reservation system may pick the unit by instructing the robot to perform the pick . If the identified serialized product unit is stored at a manual serialized product bin then the product reservation system may generate a paper or electronic pick instruction that may be provided to a manual picker. According to various embodiments the product reservation system may also receive scans from the manual picker indicating for example the inventory bin that the unit is removed from the unit itself and other information related to the pick in order to verify accuracy.

At picked product units for the order may be shipped. For example the warehouse control system may manage shipping related tasks such as selecting an appropriate shipping carton or cartons printing shipping labels and packing slips handling quality control etc. At and ship information related to the order may be updated at the ERP system the inventory interface system and the product reservation system respectively. A ship notification may be provided to the requesting system at . It will be appreciated that the shipping process may be organized or arranged in any suitable manner. A more detailed example of the shipping process is provided below with reference to . Also according to various embodiments the system and or the system A may comprise a notification engine configured to provide an e mail or other alert upon selected occurrences. For example an alert may be sent when a order is received when an order is confirmed when an order is picked when an order is shipped etc. The recipient or recipients of the alert may include personnel of the distributor entity personnel of the customer entity etc. Example events that may trigger an alert may include for example when an order becomes pending when an order is cancelled either by the customer entity or the distributor entity when an order is entered into the ERP or the customer ERP when a fulfillment or pick instruction for the order is generated when the picking of an order is completed when an order is shipped etc. For example an alert sent when an order is shipped may indicate a package carrier and or tracking number.

According to various embodiments the system e.g. via the product reservation system and or inventory interface system may organize and provide services to customers at differing levels of granularity. For example customer business entities may be divided into customer units. Each customer unit may be provided with a dedicated catalog of products from the inventory that the customer unit may sell to purchasers. A catalog of products may comprise indications of each product from the inventory that a customer unit is authorized to sell. The content of a customer unit s catalog including the products present an allowable sell through rate a number of product units available to the customer unit etc. may be provided to a customer unit via the requesting system . The products and quantity of products available to a customer unit via the catalog may be determined for example based on agreements between the distributor entity and the customer unit the discretion of the distributor entity and or the customer unit etc.

Customer business entities may be divided into customer units in any suitable way. In some embodiments a customer business entity may comprise multiple companies with each company assigned a dedicated catalog of products from the inventory. For example the customer business entity may be a holding company and each company organized under the customer business entity may represent a separate entity owned by the customer business entity a separate line of business etc. Also according to various embodiments one or more customer units may comprise multiple applications. Each application may represent a different method for purchasers to purchase product items from the inventory. For example different applications may represent different requesting systems different methods of sale e.g. on line in store telephone order etc. . In embodiments where a customer unit comprises physical retail locations each location may be assigned a separate location customer unit. Also in some embodiments physical location customer units may be divided into location application units. For example a first location application unit at a physical location may be a kiosk located in a mobile telephone area of the physical location and may utilize a catalog limited to products related to mobile telephones. A second location application unit at the physical location may be a second kiosk located in a laptop computer area of the physical location and may utilize a catalog limited to laptop and related products.

According to various embodiments each customer unit catalog may comprise a list of products making up the catalog. Catalogs may also comprise various other information about products including for example descriptions of products as well as product prices. Each product price may represent the price for the product charged by the customer unit to the purchasers. In embodiments where the requesting system is implemented by the customer business entity e.g. a unit of the customer business entity catalog information such as product descriptions and product prices may be stored at systems of the customer business entity and modified by the customer business entity according to any suitable manner. In embodiments where the requesting system is implemented by the business entity and some embodiments where the requesting system is implemented by the customer business entity catalog information may be stored by the product reservation system the inventory interface system or any other suitable component of the system . According to various embodiments customer unit catalogs may be hierarchal in nature. For example a customer entity may be assigned a catalog comprising all products that may be sold by customer units organized under the customer entity. Customer unit may add additional constraints resulting in a unique calendar for different customer units.

According to various embodiments the maintenance interface may comprise a customer management tool . The customer management tool may provide functionality for adding updating and changing information relating to customer business entities and component customer units as utilized by one or more of the inventory interface system the product reservation system the ERP system etc. For example an administrative user may change information describing one or more of the customer business entities or component customer units utilizing the requesting system or implementing their own requesting systems . Such information may include for example organization information describing the specific customer entity implementing or using a requesting system company information describing a company that owns or operates an organization application information describing technical details of an interface between the product reservation system or inventory interface system and a requesting system etc.

A catalog maintenance tool may provide functionality for managing various catalogs describing the inventory. According to various embodiments a master catalog may list all products of the inventory offered for sale. As described above each customer business entity and or component business unit may also have a dedicated customer catalog that lists all of the products of the inventory offered for sale to the customer entity or unit e.g. and ultimately available for sale from the customer entity or unit to the purchasers . The catalog maintenance tool may provide functionality that allows administrative users to modify the master catalog or any customer unit catalogs for example by adding products removing products changing the description of products changing the price of products e.g. the price charged to purchasers by the customer unit etc.

An order management tool may provide functionality for managing orders placed for example to the inventory interface system and or the product reservation system by a requesting system . For example the order management tool may allow administrative users to view one or more orders. According to various embodiments the order management tool may include functionality for sorting orders according to any suitable criteria including for example by pending status. In one example the order management tool may display orders that have serialized product units that are reserved but have not yet been confirmed. Such orders may be sorted and or filtered for example by product. The order management tool may also have functionality allowing administrative users to manipulate orders. For example an administrative user may be able to use the order management tool to add or cancel an order add or cancel the reservation of a serialized product unit etc.

A customer maintenance portal may be directed to customer users and may allow the customer users to maintain and or modify aspects of the interface between their customer business entities and the system . For example the customer maintenance portal may provide functionality allowing the customer users to modify their customer unit catalog. Such modifications may include changing the price of a product e.g. the price charged by the customer unit to the purchaser changing the description of a product provided to a purchaser etc.

A user maintenance tool may comprise functionality for managing which users have access to different components of the maintenance interface . For example an administrative user may utilize the user maintenance tool to modify the access rights of other administrative users as well as various customer users . Certain users may have access only to defined tools or defined functionality with certain tools. Authorization of users may be handled by any suitable methods. Users may have roles that determine their access to the various tools . For example customer users may have a role with a customer unit or units and may therefore may have access limited to catalogs associated with that unit or units.

Inventory bins may comprise multiple inventory bin types for example based on the products that the bins are designed to store and or the methods by which the products are designed to be picked. According to various embodiments the inventory bins may comprise robot accessible bins non serialized product bins non reserved serialized product bins and manual serialized product bins . Product units may be placed directly at a bin or in various embodiments may be first placed in a tray or other intermediate container. The tray may then be placed at the bin. The tray may be any suitable container for holding the product unit.

The robot accessible bins may be any kind of inventory bin that is accessible to a robot such as robot . The robot may be configured to place product units at the bins and retrieve product units from the bins . According to various embodiments all or a portion of the robot accessible bins may be utilized to store serialized products. The robot may comprise functionality for placing and retrieving specified product units on demand. For example each of the robot accessible bins may be configured to hold a single serialized product unit. During intake the robot may place each product unit at a robot accessible bin . When the robot is instructed to pick a particular serialized product unit it may recall the bin where the unit is stored pick the unit from that bin and place it on the transport system . In some embodiments more than one serialized product unit may be stored at each bin . For example the robot may comprise a scanner camera or other functionality allowing it to identify and pick an identified product unit from a location comprising multiple product units. Operation of the robot may be managed by the product reservation system as illustrated in the warehouse control system as illustrated in or any other component of the system .

Manual serialized product bins may comprise serialized product units stocked for manual rather than robotic picking. For example some or all of the serialized product units stocked at the facility may be assigned to the manual serialized product bins . Intake of serialized product units to the bins may be managed by the warehouse control system . For example the warehouse control system may assign each serialized product unit to a specific bin . According to various embodiments multiple product units may be assigned to each bin . The maximum number of product units assigned to a given bin may be determined to both minimize the number of bins required and minimize the amount of time required for manual pickers to identify a particular product unit within a bin . According to various embodiments the product bins may be optimized for human placement and picking. For example the product bins may be clustered at a height that an average manual picker can reach without excessive bending or stretching. For example the product bins may be clustered between two and six feet off of the floor.

Intake and picking of the manual serialized product bins are described below as being managed by the product reservation system as illustrated in . In some embodiments however intake and picking of the manual serialized product bins may be managed by the warehouse control system as illustrated in . During intake bin assignments made by the product reservation system may be communicated to manual pickers according to any suitable means. For example the product reservation system may generate one or more paper or electronic placement instructions. Manual pickers may receive the placement instructions locate the indicated product unit or units and place the unit or units at a bin identified by the ticket. Also according to various embodiments the manual pickers may be equipped with a scanning device in electronic communication with the warehouse control system . The manual pickers may retrieve a product unit assigned to the bins and scan it with the scanning device. The scanning device may capture a unique identifier of the product unit e.g. the serial identifier and provide the identifier to the warehouse control system . The product reservation system may receive the identifier and return to the scanning device an indication of the appropriate bin . The scanning device may display the indication of the bin which may prompt the manual picker to place the product unit at the bin . According to various embodiments the manual picker may scan the bin and or the product unit after placement which may provide to the warehouse control system confirmation of the unit s location. According to various embodiments manual pickers may initiate the placement process by scanning a product unit. The scan may be received by the product reservation system which may return to the manual picker an indication of a manual serialized product bin where the unit should be placed. The manual picker may subsequently place the unit at the identified bin .

Also according to various embodiments serialized product units may be placed at bins according to product turn over. For example products having a high turn over may be stored at bins located at about eye level for faster picking and placement. Products having lower turn over may be stored at bins that are higher or lower. According to various embodiments prior to generating the placement instruction the product reservation system may determine an expected turn over rate for a product. For example products may be classified as A B and C with each category corresponding to a different turn over level. The bin selected by the product reservation system for a given product unit may be determined based on the product turn over rate e.g. the products A B or C classification .

When a specific serialized product unit is to be picked the product reservation system may identify the bin comprising the product unit. A paper or electronic pick instruction may be generated specifying the bin and the serial identifier of the product unit. A manual picker may receive the pick instruction go to the bin identify the specified product unit at the bin and place the specified product unit on the transport system . When the manual picker is equipped with a scanning device the picker may scan one or more of the bin and the product unit prior to placing the unit on the transport device . This may provide verification to the product reservation system that the correct product unit has been picked and placed on the transport system .

Non serialized product bins may be any kind of inventory bin. Because it is not necessary to match specific non serialized product units to specific orders it may be practical to store multiple non serialized product units in a single bin . The non serialized product units may be placed into and retrieved from bins according to any suitable manual or automated method. When a non serialized product is needed for an order the warehouse control system may identify a bin comprising all or a portion of the quantity required. The system may then generate a paper or electronic pick instruction that is provided to a manual picker. The manual picker may pull a product unit from the identified bin and place the unit on the transport system. In some embodiments the manual picker may scan the product unit with a scanning device prior to placing it on the transport system . This may provide the warehouse control system with verification that a unit of the correct product has been picked. It will be appreciated that non serialized products may also be picked from bins by a robot or other automated device.

Non reserved serialized product bins may be any kind of product bins and may store non reserved serialized products or serialized products that may not be activated prior to sale. The bins may be managed by the warehouse control system in a manner similar to the non serialized product bins . This is because like non serialized product units non reserved serialized product units may not need to be specifically matched to a given order. Accordingly the non reserved serialized product bins may be configured to comprise any suitable number of product units. The product units may be manually or automatically placed to and picked from the bins for example in a manner similar to that described with respect to the non serialized product bins .

Upon picking for an order product units may be placed on the transport system . According to various embodiments the warehouse control system may track product units on the transport system . For example product units on the transport system may comprise a computer readable identifier that specifies one or both of a product type and a unique serial identifier e.g. for serialized product units . Scanners or other sensors for reading the computer readable identifiers may be positioned at known locations on the transport system . The scanners may sense the computer readable identifier of each product unit passing by and provide the same to the warehouse control system .

The warehouse control system may utilize product unit tracking information to direct the transport system to transport product units corresponding to a given order to a specific packing station . For example the transport system may have various directing devices such as for example movable arms rollers oriented orthogonal to the track direction or other mechanical devices for directing product units off of the transport system and towards the specific packing station . Once received at a packing station the product units corresponding to an order may be manually and or automatically confirmed packed into a shipping container and then placed back on the transport system and directed towards a shipping station. At the shipping station the shipping container may be manually or automatically addressed and appropriate postage or shipping payment information may be affixed thereto. The package may then be provided to a shipping provider for shipment.

It will be appreciated that not all warehouse facilities of the system may comprise all of the inventory bin types shown at the warehouse facility in . For example some warehouse facilities may only have one kind of serialized product bins e.g. manual or robot accessible . Some warehouse facilities may lack one or more of the serialized product bins non serialized product bins or non reserved serialized product bins . For example it is possible that all products in the inventory may be serialized products e.g. when serialized products are used for theft prevention . Also it will be appreciated that some warehouse facilities may include inventory bin types in addition to those shown in .

The process of picking product units for an order may generally be referred to fulfilling the order. In various embodiments however order fulfillment may encompass more than just unit picking including for example shipping quality control etc. The order fulfillment process may be managed by one or more different components of the system . For example although various actions related to fulfillment are indicated herein to be initiated by the warehouse control system and the product reservation system respectively it will be appreciated that any of the actions herein may managed by any component of the system .

The product reservation system may at determine a non serialized product bin that contains units of the non serialized product specified by the order. At the product reservation system may generate a pick or fulfillment instruction for the non serialized product. The pick instruction may initiate a manual or automated pick from the identified non serialized product bin . For a manual pick the fulfillment instruction may be provided in paper or electronic for to a manual picker. The instruction may indicate a unit quantity of the non serialized product to be picked as well as the identified bin . The manual picker may pick the indicated unit quantity from the bin and place it on the transport system . For an automated pick the fulfillment instruction may be provided to a robot or other automated picking device which may cause the indicated unit quantity from the bin to be placed on the transport system . According to various embodiments the product reservation system or warehouse control system may receive an indication when the indicated quantity of the non serialized product is placed on the transport system . For example a manual picker may utilize a scanning device to scan the indicated quantity before placing it on the transport system . Also for example the transport system may comprise one or more sensors for sensing the presence of the indicated quantity of the non serialized product on the transport system . The product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may at instruct the transport system to transport the indicated quantity of the serialized product to a selected packing station . For example when the indicated quantity passes within a predetermined proximity of the packing station a directing device may be deployed to push the quantity to the packing station either collectively or one at a time.

At the product reservation system may instruct the robot to retrieve the identified serialized product unit from the robot accessible bins . According to various embodiments the instruction to the robot may indicate the serialized product unit e.g. by its unique serial identifier . The robot may locate the bin comprising the serialized product unit pull the serialized product unit from the bin and place it on the transport system . In some embodiments the product reservation system may provide the robot with the bin containing the identified product unit in addition to or instead of its serial identifier. The product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may additionally instruct the transport system to move the picked serialized product unit to the packing station which may be the same packing station that the non serialized product was sent to. Subsequently the warehouse control system may manage the shipping of the order for example as described herein.

Referring now to the product reservation system and or warehouse control system may receive an order confirmation at . The order confirmation may indicate that all or a portion of an order received from the requesting system is confirmed and ready to be fulfilled. Receiving the order confirmation may be the equivalent of receiving the order fulfillment indication at above. At the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may generate an order fulfillment instruction. The order fulfillment instruction may indicate for example all products to be picked for the order which may include for example serialized products non serialized products and or non reserved serialized products. The order fulfillment instruction may have a line or entry for each unit of a serialized product specified by the original order. For example if an order specifies three units of a first serialized product and one unit of a second serialized product then the order fulfillment instruction may comprise three entries for the first serialized product and one entry for the second serialized product. The order fulfillment instruction may also comprise a line or entry for non serialized product and each non reserved serialized product from the order. Each serialized product unit entry in the order fulfillment instruction may comprise an indication of the unique serial identifier of a product unit associated with the line.

At the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may determine if all serialized product unit entries of the order fulfillment instruction are properly associated with a unique product unit e.g. via a unique serial identifier . If there is a problem with the association between a serialized product unit entry on the order fulfillment instruction and a unique serial identifier it may be addressed at . Addressing such a problem may include for example correcting a typographical error retrieving and adding to the order fulfillment instruction a serial identifier that was originally omitted reserving a new serialized product item and transmitting its serial identifier to the requesting system for activation etc.

Provided that all serialized product units identified by the order fulfillment instruction are verified the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may allocate to each order fulfillment instruction entry a bin from which the identified unit or units will be picked. For example each entry of the order fulfillment instruction may be allocated to an inventory bin . The allocated bin for an entry may be written to the entry. Serialized product unit entries at the order fulfillment instruction may be allocated to either a robot accessible bin or a manual serialized product bin depending on the location of the identified unit. Non serialized product entries may be allocated to non serialized product bins and non reserved serialized product entries may be allocated to non reserved serialized product bins . It will be appreciated that non serialized product entries and non reserved serialized product entries may be allocated to multiple bins. For example if a single bin includes fewer units than the quantity indicated by an entry the entry may be allocated to more than one bin. A record of the allocation may be generated at . Also in some embodiments the allocation of may comprise assigning an order fulfillment instruction entry to a tray for picking. For example it will be appreciated that depending on size and other factors multiple product units may be placed in a single tray for picking and shipping.

At the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may derive a packing method for the order fulfillment instruction. The packing method may specify details describing how the products identified by the fulfillment order will be shipped including for example the number of cartons into which the order will divided the product units that will be in each package the method of shipping etc. A record of the determined packing method may be generated at . Place holder shows how the process flow transitions from the actions shown at to the actions shown at .

At the manual picker may obtain a first empty tray. At it may be determined if the non robot pick instruction recites any non reserved serialized units assigned to the first tray. If so the manual picker may perform actions for some or all of the non reserved serialized product units identified by the non robot pick instruction. At the manual picker may scan a first non reserved serialized product type. For example each inventory bin may comprise an indication of the product type stored therein. Scanning the non reserved serialized product type may involve scanning this indication on the inventory bin. At the manual picker may scan the inventory bin e.g. a non reserved serialized product bin from which the product unit was picked. At the manual picker may indicate the quantity of non reserved serialized units picked from the bin. At the manual picker may scan the serial identifiers of each picked product unit. All picked product units may be placed in the first tray which may be scanned at . The information scanned at and may be provided to the warehouse control system to verify the accuracy of the pick at . If additional non reserved serialized are indicated by the non robot pick instruction as being allocated to the first tray actions and may be repeated for each additional unit.

At it may be determined if the non robot pick instruction recites any manual pick serialized product units assigned to the first tray. If so actions and may be performed for each recited serialized product unit. At the manual picker may scan the part type corresponding to a first recited serialized product unit. At the manual picker may scan the manual serialized bin indicated by the non robot pick instruction to contain the identified serialized product unit. At the manual picker may specify the quantity of units to be picked which will often be one. At the manual picker may scan the serial identifier of the unit. The manual picker may then place the identified serialized product unit in the first tray and scan the first tray at . The information obtained at and may be provided to the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system to verify the accuracy of the pick at . If the non robot pick instruction indicates that an additional manual serialized product units are allocated to the first tray actions may be repeated for each additional unit.

At it may be determined if the non robot pick instruction recites any non serialized products. If so the manual picker may perform actions and for each product. At the manual picker may scan a product type identifier for the product. At the manual picker may scan the inventory bin or bins identified by the non robot pick instruction as including the specified non serialized product units. At the manual picker may specify the quantity of units picked and placed in the first tray. At the manual picker may place the units in the first tray and scan the first tray. Again the information obtained from the scans at may be provided to the warehouse control system to verify the accuracy of the pick at . If the non robot pick instruction specifies additional non serialized units to be included in the first tray actions may be repeated for each additional product.

When all product units assigned by the non robot pick instruction to the first tray are placed in the first tray the first tray may be placed on the transport system at . After placement on the transport system the first tray may be manually or automatically scanned at . This may provide the warehouse control system with an indication of a location of the first tray on the transport system . At the warehouse control system may refer to the non robot pick instruction to pull details describing the scanned tray. If the scanned tray is the first tray associated with the order fulfillment instruction then the warehouse control system may store at an indication that picking of the order has begun. If the scanned tray is not the last tray associated with the non robot pick instruction then an additional empty tray may be pulled at and the process may repeat. If the scanned tray is the last tray associated with the non robot pick instruction then the warehouse control system and or the product reservation system may instruct the robot to retrieve all serialized product units having entries in the order fulfillment instruction that indicate robot accessible bins e.g. a robot pick instruction . According to various embodiments each product unit may be stored at the robot accessible bins in a tray. To retrieve a product unit the robot may retrieve the associated tray and place it on the transport system. At the warehouse control system may instruct the transport system to direct all of the trays associated with the order fulfillment instruction to one or more packing stations. Circle indicates a transition to a portion of the process flow shown in .

Referring back to if the order fulfillment instruction recites only robot picks then the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may send a robot pick instruction to the robot at . The robot may process the robot pick instruction at and retrieve all product units indicated by the robot pick instruction at .

Once all of the units assigned by the order fulfillment instruction to the first carton have been scanned the first carton may be packed at . According to various embodiments order and or product item customization may also be performed prior to or during packing. For example when the product item is a piece of hardware customization may comprise loading one or more software applications to the hardware. Customization may also comprise the addition of customer entity and or product specific marketing materials instructions etc. The product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may determine if any additional robot trays remain . If so it may be determined if any post robot picks are required . A post robot pick may be a pick of an often non serialized product that may be located in the shipping area. Products for post robot picking may include for example brochures promotional products etc. If a post robot pick is required it may be performed at . The post robot pick may be processed for packing at actions and as described. If no post robot pick is necessary or if not all robot trays are completed then the warehouse control system may determine if additional trays from the order fulfillment instruction remain unprocessed . If so at the next tray may be scanned and then processed as described above.

If no additional trays remain then the warehouse control system may complete the order at . Completing the order may comprise sending an indication to the product reservation system and or the ERP system indicating that the order has been picked and packed. At the warehouse control system may cause a packing slip to be printed and affixed to each carton corresponding to the order. Suitable quality assurance actions may be taken at . For example each carton or a sampling of cartons may be opened and its contents verified. It will be appreciated that although various actions described with reference to the process flow shown in are performed by manual pickers these actions may also be automated for example utilizing one or more robots.

At the product reservation system may receive a unique indication of a first tray on the intake transport system . For example the indication may be received from an intake sensor positioned to scan a bar code or other computer readable tray identifier. The intake sensor according to various embodiments may have a field of view directed towards the intake transport such that the tray falls within the field of view. The tray may be manually or automatically placed on the intake transport system . At the product reservation system may receive an indication of a first serialized product unit on the product intake transport . For example a product sensor present at a known location on the product intake transport may sense e.g. via a bar code or other computer readable indicator the unique serial identifier of the serialized product unit . The product sensor according to various embodiments may have a field of view directed towards the product intake transport such that the serialized product unit falls within the field of view. The product reservation system may derive a location of the product unit on the product intake transport for example based on the reading from the product sensor . Also according to various embodiments the product transport system may comprise one or more delineated locations . An intake monitoring system may provide an indication to a manual worker an indication to place the product unit at the delineated location . The product reservation system may track the location of the unit based on the known location of the delineated location and or based on input from an intake transport system sensor not shown positioned to sense a position of the intake transport system .

At the product reservation system may associate the first tray with the first serialized product unit for example by storing an association between the unit s unique serial identifier and the unique indication of the first tray . At the product reservation system may instruct the product transport system and the intake transport system to place the first serialized product unit into the tray . This process may occur according to any suitable method. For example as illustrated in the product transport system may be positioned above the intake transport system . Accordingly when the unit reaches an end of the product transport system it may fall into the tray as shown. Placing the first serialized product unit into the tray may comprise positioning the product transport system and the intake transport system such that the tray is positioned to catch the unit at the end of the product transport system as illustrated in .

At the product reservation system may instruct the robot to place the tray and also the first serialized product unit at a robot accessible bin. For example as illustrated in after the tray is placed on the intake transport system it may be transported to the intermediate transport system which may take the tray between the robot accessible bin units . There one of the robot arms may pick up the tray and place it at one of the robot accessible locations . According to various embodiments the instruction to the robot may also comprise an indication of the turn over rate of the product associated with the product present at the tray . The robot may utilize this information to place the tray within the robot accessible bins. For example trays comprising product units having a high turn over may be stored at bins that may be easily accessible by the robot. Trays comprising product units having lower turn over may be stored at bines that are not as quickly or easily accessible. According to various embodiments product units may be classified into three categories based on availability. An A category may indicate product units having the highest turn over. A B category may indicate product units having an intermediate turn over rate. A C category may indicate product units having a low turn over rate.

At the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may instruct the transport system to transport the tray to a packing station . For example after being placed in the intermediate transport system the system may rotate counter clockwise relative to moving the tray to the packing stations . When the tray is adjacent a selected packing station the intermediate transport system may deploy a directing device to move divert the tray toward the packing station . The directing device may be for example an arm positioned to swing across the intermediate transport system a set of rollers positioned to roll orthogonal to the direction of motion of the system and towards the packing station etc. At the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may receive an indication that an order including the unit is packed. For example after the unit is packed into a carton the carton may be placed on an outflow transport system which may direct the carton towards one or more shipping stations . Upon receipt of the indication that the unit is packed for shipping the product reservation system and or the warehouse control system may generate a ship instruction at . The ship instruction may be result in a shipping label being generated and applied to the carton at labeling device . According to various embodiments the tray and unit may be processed for packing and shipping as described above with respect to the packing portion of the process flow described above.

Different computer systems are described herein as communicating with one another. It will be appreciated that this communication may take place in any suitable method. For example according to various embodiments some or all of the computer systems described herein may be in communication with one another via a network or networks. The network or networks may operate according to any suitable wired or wireless communication protocol and may utilize any suitable hardware or software. In some embodiments the network or networks may include a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a local area network LAN etc.

Although the functions described herein are described in terms of multiple computer systems e.g. product reservation system warehouse control system enterprise resource planning system etc. it will be appreciated than any of the functionality of these or other systems may be distributed across more or fewer physical computer systems. Also according to various embodiments any of the various computer systems herein may be implemented as multiple computer systems. For example different computer systems may manage different types of inventory bins.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers or computer systems described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated materials does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

