---

title: Optimizing search engine ranking by recommending content including frequently searched questions
abstract: Systems and method of the present invention provide for one or more server computers configured to receive one or more keywords topically relevant to a content of a web page, request from a search engine a first metric comprising a quantity of times the keywords have appeared in a search query with one or more question keywords during a time period and a second metric comprising a probability of receiving a high rank associated with the one or more keywords and the one or more question keywords, receive, from the search engine, the first metric and the second metric, calculate a keyword effectiveness index from the first metric and the second metric, and generate and transmit to a client computer one or more recommendations to include a high ranked suggested content on the web page according to the keyword effectiveness index.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460217&OS=09460217&RS=09460217
owner: Go Daddy Operation Company, LLC
number: 09460217
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151119
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 565 095 filed Dec. 9 2014 and entitled Optimizing Search Engine Ranking by Recommending Content Including Frequently Searched Questions which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 650 066 filed on Oct. 11 2012 and entitled Optimizing Search Engine Ranking by Recommending Content Including Frequently Searched Questions. 

The present inventions generally relate to search engine optimization and more particularly methods and systems for improving a website administrator s or other user s search engine optimization rankings by recommending frequently searched keywords and questions to be included in a web page content.

An example embodiment of method of optimizing search engine rankings by recommending content for frequently searched questions may comprise the steps of one or more server computers receiving one or more keywords topically relevant to a content of a web page within a website hosted on the server computer requesting from a search engine a first metric comprising a quantity of times the one or more keywords have appeared in a search query along with one or more question keywords during a time period and a second metric comprising a probability of receiving a high rank associated with the one or more keywords and the one or more question keywords. The one or more server computers may then receive from the search engine the first metric and the second metric calculate a keyword effectiveness index from the first metric and the second metric and generate and transmit to a client computer one or more recommendations to include a high ranked suggested content on the web page according to the keyword effectiveness index.

An example embodiment of system for optimizing search engine rankings by recommending content for frequently searched questions may comprise one or more server computers communicatively coupled to a network and configured to receive one or more keywords topically relevant to a content of a web page within a website hosted on the server computer request from a search engine a first metric comprising a quantity of times the one or more keywords have appeared in a search query along with one or more question keywords during a time period and a second metric comprising a probability of receiving a high rank associated with the one or more keywords and the one or more question keywords. The one or more server computers may be further configured to receive from the search engine the first metric and the second metric calculate a keyword effectiveness index from the first metric and the second metric and generate and transmit to a client computer one or more recommendations to include a high ranked suggested content on the web page according to the keyword effectiveness index.

The above features and advantages of the present inventions will be better understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present inventions will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the inventions and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present inventions may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines structures and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present inventions. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers e.g. website owners or operators place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as web pages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related web pages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding web pages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

Prevalent on the Web are multimedia websites some of which may offer and sell goods and services to individuals and organizations. Websites may consist of a single webpage but typically consist of multiple interconnected and related web pages. Menus and links may be used to move between different web pages within the website or to move to a different website as is known in the art. The interconnectivity of web pages enabled by the Internet can make it difficult for Internet users to tell where one website ends and another begins. Websites may be created using HyperText Markup Language HTML to generate a standard set of tags that define how the web pages for the website are to be displayed. Such websites may comprise a collection of HTML and subordinate documents i.e. files stored on the Web that are typically accessible from the same Uniform Resource Locator URL and reside on the same server although such files may be distributed in numerous servers.

Users of the Internet may access content providers websites using software known as an Internet browser such as GOOGLE CHROME MOZILLA FIREFOX or MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER. After the browser has located the desired webpage it requests and receives information from the webpage typically in the form of an HTML document and then displays the webpage content for the user. The user then may view other web pages at the same website or move to an entirely different website using the browser.

Website owners and or administrators often use their websites for business purposes selling a wide range of goods and services as well as displaying paid advertisements. In order to increase revenue website owners try to attract additional Internet users i.e. customers to their websites. However with an ever increasing number of websites on the Internet website owners are finding it increasingly difficult to attract customers to their websites. This trend is likely to continue as the number of businesses trying to gain a presence on the Internet increases the competition for the attention of the Internet users. The future level of success for many of these businesses will depend on their ability to attract Internet users i.e. customers to their websites.

Web sites are predominantly found by Internet users through the use of a search engine or directory. Some of the more widely used search engines are for example GOOGLE YAHOO BING etc. Internet users are able to enter a search phrase comprised of one or more keywords or a phrase typically a name of a good or service or a topic of interest into a search engine. The search engine will display a list of websites a result list that the search engine has determined are related to the search phrase along with links to the websites. The search engines display the result list in a particular order or rank often determined by relevance. In other words the websites which the search engine has determined have content most closely related to the search keyword or phrase are displayed near the top of the result list while websites with less closely related content are displayed lower in the result list. The sheer number of websites currently on the Internet can often result in the result list having multiple pages of websites related to many common search phrases.

In an effort to increase traffic flow to their website website owners and or administrators typically register their websites with one or more search engines. The search engines may try to determine the search phrases that are related to each submitted website. The methods used by the search engines vary from search engine to search engine and each search engine typically keeps its exact methodology a secret. In general though most search engines parse through the various parts of the websites submitted to them for registration. The keywords and phrases that are discovered by parsing the submitted websites are used to determine if a website should be cited based on the search phrase entered by Internet users.

Not surprisingly website owners and administrators have noticed that websites listed near the beginning of a result list receive substantially more traffic than websites listed near the end of a result list. It is therefore important not only for a website to be on the result list generated by the search engines but to also be listed as high as possible on that result list.

In an effort to raise the rank of their websites on the result lists a website owner and or administrator website admin may alter their website s so that search engines are more likely to determine that their websites are more relevant to any searched keywords or phrases. However few website administrators are familiar with and likely don t want to spend the time to learn all of the factors used in the search engines algorithms and are thus unable to take advantage of all the beneficial alterations that they could be making. Further operators of search engines being aware of the common tactics used by a website admin to artificially raise their search engine rank adjust their algorithms to counter these efforts.

Applicant has therefore determined that presently existing systems and methods do not provide optimal means for recommending changes to website content which will improve search engine rankings. New systems and processes are therefore needed to assist website owners in submitting their websites to a large number of search engines and to get their websites listed as high as possible on the result lists generated by the search engines.

The server s may receive one or more request results from the search engine via the API with each of the request results comprising the search term metric and the competition metric for the one or more keywords Step . The server s may use the search term metric and the competition metric to calculate a keyword effectiveness index KEI for each of the request results and the request result s may be ranked according to the KEI Step . The server s may then generate and transmit to one or more client computers communicatively coupled to the network one or more recommendations to optimize a search engine ranking for the selected web page. The recommendation may be to include the keywords generated by the request results in the content of the selected web page. The recommendations may be ordered and displayed according to the KEI acting as a recommendation score where a keyword with a higher KEI may be recommended above a keyword with a lower KEI Step .

The example embodiments illustrated herein place no limitation on network configuration or connectivity. Thus as non limiting examples the network could comprise the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks wireless networks or any combination thereof.

System components may be communicatively coupled to the network via any method of network connection known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to wired wireless modem dial up satellite cable modem Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscribers Line ASDL Virtual Private Network VPN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN X.25 Ethernet token ring Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Infrared Data Association IrDA wireless WAN technologies T1 Frame Relay Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE and or any combination thereof.

Any transmissions or data transfers described herein may be transmitted according to any data transmission protocol known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to an HTTP response to the request a file transfer protocol FTP transmission an email message and or a SMS message. Data streaming technology also may be used to effectuate data transfer. A data stream may be for example a sequence of digitally encoded coherent signals packets of data used to transmit or receive information that is in transmission.

Any data transfer protocol known in the art or developed in the future may be used including but not limited to those used with TCP IP e.g. FTAM FTP HTTP RCP SFTP SCP or FASTCopy those used with UDP e.g. TFTP FSP UFTP or MFTP those used with direct modem connections HTTP streaming Tubular Data Stream Protocol TDSP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP and or Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP .

Server s and or any other server described herein may comprise any computer or program that provides services to other computers programs or users either in the same computer or over a computer network . As non limiting examples the server s could be application communication mail database proxy fax file media web peer to peer standalone software or hardware servers i.e. server computers and may use any server format known in the art or developed in the future possibly a shared hosting server a virtual dedicated hosting server a dedicated hosting server or any combination thereof .

Server s may comprise a computer readable storage media storing instructions that when executed by a microprocessor cause the server to perform the steps for which it is configured. Such computer readable media may comprise any data storage medium capable of storing instructions for execution by a computing device. It may comprise as non limiting examples magnetic optical semiconductor paper or any other data storage media a database or other network storage device hard disk drives portable disks CD ROM DVD RAM ROM flash memory and or holographic data storage. The instructions may as non limiting examples comprise software and or scripts stored in the computer readable media that may be stored locally in the server or alternatively in a highly distributed format in a plurality of computer readable media accessible via the network perhaps via a grid or cloud computing environment.

Such instructions may be implemented in the form of software modules. Each module described herein may comprise a self contained software component that may interact with the larger system and or other modules. A module may comprise an individual or plurality of file s and may execute a specific task within a larger software and or hardware system. As a non limiting example a module may comprise any software and or scripts running on one or more servers containing instructions perhaps stored in computer readable media accessible by the server computer s computer processor that when executed by the computer processor cause the server computer to perform the steps for which it is configured.

Any database data storage described herein may comprise a local database online database desktop database server side database relational database hierarchical database network database object database object relational database associative database concept oriented database entity attribute value database multi dimensional database semi structured database star schema database XML database file collection of files spreadsheet or other means of data storage located on a computer client server or any other storage device known in the art or developed in the future.

The client s may be any computer or program that provides services to other computers programs or users either in the same computer or over a computer network . As non limiting examples the client s may be an application communication mail database proxy fax file media web peer to peer or standalone computer cell phone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. which may contain an operating system a full file system a plurality of other necessary utilities or applications or any combination thereof on the client . Non limiting example programming environments for client applications may include JavaScript AJAX client side automation ASP JSP Ruby on Rails Python s Django PHP HTML pages or rich media like Flash Flex Silverlight any programming environments for mobile apps or any combination thereof.

Client software may be used for authenticated remote access to one more hosting computers or servers described herein. These may be but are not limited to being accessed by a remote desktop program and or a web browser as are known in the art. Any browser described herein may comprise any software application for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources on the Web including but not limited to the website s described in detail herein.

The website s may comprise any collection of data and or files accessible to a client or server communicatively coupled to the network . As a non limiting example websites may comprise a single web page or multiple interconnected and related web pages resolving from a domain name each of which may provide access to static dynamic multimedia or any other content perhaps by accessing files e.g. text audio video graphics executable HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML Active Server Pages ASP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Flash files server side scripting etc. that enable the website to display when rendered by a browser on a client or server . The website s files may be organized in a hosting server s file system which may organize the files for the storage organization manipulation and retrieval by the hosting server s operating system. A hosting server s file system may comprise at least one directory which in turn may comprise at least one folder in which files may be stored. In most operating systems files may be stored in a root directory sub directories folders or sub folders within the file system.

An administrator and or owner of a website may use the client s and any related web browser or other client software to display the control panel used to optimize search engine rankings for a web page by recommending content which includes frequently searched and or highly ranked search engine keywords. Although the term website admin is used in the disclosed non limiting example embodiments any user authorized to access a hosting account for the website control panel website s and or web page s described herein may likewise access the website control panel after authentication.

The website admin may be authenticated to log into the control panel and or the website possibly via a hosting account for the website using the client s . The server s may authenticate the user by any means of authentication known in the art and or by any other means of verifying the identity of the sender of a communication such as a request to log in or access a resource. The thing being authenticated may be but is not limited to a person using a client or other system a computer itself or a computer program.

As non limiting examples authentication may utilize any weak or strong authentication system known in the art or developed in the future such as username password challenge response OpenID MICROSOFT CARDSPACE any Single Sign On SSO methodology Public Key Infrastructure PKI digital signatures zero knowledge proofs Kerberos smart card biometrics retina voice fingerprint or DNA recognition and or and combination thereof. The authentication environment may further be secured with antivirus software firewalling and or at least one virtual private network.

In some embodiments the server s may authenticate the user via an administrator username and password used to log into a hosting account for the website . In these and other embodiments the control panel may be included as part of the website hosting account. The server s may execute any method steps disclosed herein render the control panel and transmit the rendered control panel for display on the client computer operated by the website admin.

The user interfaces displayed on the client s and or the server s may be any graphical textual scanned and or auditory information a computer program presents to the user and the control sequences such as keystrokes movements of the computer mouse selections with a touch screen scanned information etc. used to control the program. Examples of such interfaces include any known or later developed combination of Graphical User Interfaces GUI or Web based user interfaces including Touch interfaces Conversational Interface Agents Live User Interfaces LUI Command line interfaces Non command user interfaces Object oriented User Interfaces OOUI or Voice user interfaces. Any information generated by the user or any other information may be accepted using any field widget and or control used in such interfaces including but not limited to a text box text field button hyper link list drop down list check box radio button data grid icon graphical image embedded link etc. The control panel may comprise one or more admin web pages .

As seen in the non limiting example embodiment seen in the user interface may include an Optimization Options section of the control panel . This section may include links or other navigation for the website admin to access the disclosed functionality to Generate Keywords and or Topics and to Analyze Content on the website. Additional features may include navigation for the website admin to Optimize Tags on the website Control Crawling of the website Create a Site Map for the website etc.

As seen in the top navigation of the non limiting example embodiments in the control panel may include a top navigation used to view a web page and or one or more websites in a web browser and or to view the control panel for additional web pages and or websites . The control panel as seen in may also include a Folders Pages section. This section may include a window or panel for viewing the web page s and or folders included within the website s . In these non limiting example embodiments such a window or panel may include a drill down or tree view of these web pages folders within the website s . In other embodiments the window or panel may include a list view or an option to view the contents of the website by a list view.

This window or panel may include the root of the website any default pages e.g. default.html main.asp home.php etc. any content pages either static or dynamic folders for the website multimedia files etc. The website admin may use such windows or panels to view information and or accomplish the method steps described herein for each of the websites and or individual web pages within these websites ideally in the context of optimizing the website and or web pages for high search engine rank.

As a specific non limiting example seen in a website admin for the website www.alergyclinic.com may be authenticated and granted access to the control panel for this website . The control panel may allow the website admin to navigate to the default web page for alergyclinic.com in order to optimize the content of this web page for high search engine rank. The website admin may use the Folders Pages window panel in this example to view and or select web pages and folders included within the alergyclinic.com website for optimization. In this example web pages and folders may include about.php allergist.php awards.php clinical.php contactus.php doctors.php education.php etc. The window or panel may also include folders for supporting files such as education info or allergy articles.

The website admin may also use the control panel as seen in to store a fixed number of keywords used to optimize the selected web page and or website for high search engine rank. These keywords may be included in web page content as well as metadata tags and or any other technique known in the art for using keywords to optimize search engine rankings. These keywords may either be added manually or added in response to receiving one or more suggested keywords as seen in and described in detail herein. In the example embodiments seen in manual or suggested keywords may be added using a and removed using an x. 

To generate such suggested keywords and or content the website admin may use the previously disclosed navigation elements to select and review the content of a selected web page within a selected website and may identify one or more keywords which both describe the web page and which the website admin has decided should be used to optimize the web page for high search engine rank. For purposes of this disclosure keywords may include any combination of one or more individual words or phrases. The website admin may enter the keyword s into a text area provided within a specialized area of the user interface of the control panel configured to receive the keywords which describe the content of the selected web page within the selected website .

In some embodiments this text box may include a parsing feature so that the server s may distinguish between selected individual keywords and selected keywords grouped as phrases within the request made by the website admin. In some embodiments such as those seen in the user interface may include user interface elements presenting options for the website administrator to limit the request for information by geographic regions in which searches for the selected word is being searched e.g. United States or the language in which the selected word is being searched e.g. English .

As a non limiting example seen in the website admin for the website allergyclinic.com may use the provided control panel navigation to select the default page as the web page to be optimized for high search engine rank and may further determine that the keyword which best describes the default page for optimization purposes is allergy. The website admin may then select Generate Keywords Topics from the presented Optimization Options on the control panel .

In the non limiting example interface seen in the website admin may be presented with two options for generating keywords topics namely an option for Keywords Being Searched and an option for Suggested Content. In the website admin may move back and forth between these options using an interface element such as the disclosed link. However any other interface element e.g. button tab drop down checkbox radio button etc. may be used to select between these two options. In the website admin has selected the Keywords Being Searched option.

In this illustrated example the website admin may enter the selected word allergy into the provided textbox. If additional keywords and or phrases had been selected the website admin may have separated them by commas semicolons etc. In the illustrated embodiment the user may hit the Enter or Return key on the keyboard to request search engine optimization information possibly including suggested content changes from the server s for the suggested keyword allergy. In other embodiments the website admin may make this request by selecting a select button possibly labeled Generate indicating that the website admin wants the system to generate suggested recommended content for the web page . The control panel may then collect the selected keyword allergy and any other information required for the request and transmit the request including the keyword s and other information to the server s .

As seen in the server s may comprise a search engine request module and a content recommendation module . The search engine request module may be configured to receive the request including the keyword s and any additional information Step . The search engine request module on the server s may identify and analyze the keyword s and any additional information and generate a request to call and run a remote procedure within an application programming interface API for each of one or more search engines.

This remote procedure call may be configured to receive the request and generate and transmit search engine information about the keyword s to the hosting server s . In generating the request the hosting server s may be further configured to customize the request so that the generated search information is limited not only by the selected keyword s but also by additional request parameters including as non limiting examples the question keywords as defined and described herein and the selected geographic region and or language in which the keywords are being searched as described above. The information requested from the search engine may include at least two keyword search metrics related to search engine optimization.

The first metric requested may include a search term metric identifying a quantity of searches during a regular interval such as a day week month year etc. which include the one or more keyword s . The second metric requested may be a competition metric which measures a level of difficulty involved in receiving a high search engine rank because of additional websites optimized for the same keyword s .

Continuing the example embodiment seen in the search engine request module on the server s may receive the request for information for the keyword allergy Step generate a request for the search engine information including the search term metric and the competition metric for the keyword allergy and as limited by other selected options e.g. question keywords geographic region language etc. and submit the request via a remote procedure call to the API for the search engine Step . The remote procedure may execute the request possibly by accessing the requested search engine information as stored in a database on the search engine servers compile the results according to limiting parameters if any and return the compiled results to the hosting server s .

The API may comprise a service made available by the search engine to third parties which may further comprise any individual entity system hardware or software wishing to access the disclosed search engine and optimization information. Such an API may comprise a software to software interface that specifies the protocol defining how independent computer programs interact or communicate with each other.

The API may comprise any API type known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to request style Berkeley Sockets Transport Layer Interface TLI Representational State Transfer REST SOAP Remote Procedure Calls RPC Standard Query Language SQL file transfer message delivery and or any combination thereof. The API may comprise computer readable code that when executed causes the API to receive a procedure call i.e. function call requesting search engine information services. Responsive to receipt of the remote procedure call the API may perform the above described processes and transmit a request results to the requesting third party in this case the search engine request module on the hosting server .

To submit the request via the remote procedure call to the API the server s may require authentication with the search engine s API . As is known in the art the server s may locate the API via an access protected URL mapped to the API and may then use an API key specific to the server s and configured to authenticate the one or more server computers prior to accessing the search engine API .

The search engine request module on the server s may then receive the request results Step as limited by any limiting parameters. Each of these request results may include the search term metric and the competition metric for the request result keyword . As a non limiting example a search for the keyword allergy may return a plurality of request results including allergies allergy testing gluten allergy allergy relief allergy test seasonal allergies food allergy symptoms allergy shots etc. as well as the respective search term metric and competition metric for each of these request results.

Using the request result allergies as a non limiting example response returned to the hosting server s from a request limited to the keyword allergy the request result for allergies may include raw data indicating that 2 740 000 global monthly searches were made for allergies. Global searches may indicate those responses which were not limited by geographic region. For responses limited by geographic region e.g. the United States the request result my indicate for example that 1 500 000 local monthly searches were made for the keyword allergies. 

The request result for the non limiting example keyword allergies may also include the competition metric . This metric may be in any format including a range of descriptions such as Low Medium and High. These range of descriptions may be determined by a numerical value in the raw data. As non limiting examples the numerical value for the competition metric may be within a pre determined range such as a percentage of predetermined limited or total searches for example.

In the non limiting example for a request result allergies the competition metric may have raw data of 0.3 and may display a competition value of low. The high medium and low competition values may be determined according to where the competition metric falls within a range of the competition metrics returned with the raw data. As non limiting examples allergies may have a value of 0.3 which would be assigned and display a low competition value while allergy testing may return a competition metric of have a value of 0.61 which may be assigned and display a competition value of medium. Food allergy test may return a competition value of 0.83 and may be assigned and display a competition value of high. It should be noted that only the numeric value in the raw data is used in the calculation of the keyword effectiveness index KEI described below.

The API may return the request results to the server s and the content recommendation module on the server s may analyze the raw data and calculate a KEI for each of the request results. Determination of the KEI score may be calculated by determining a logarithm comprising a calculation of the search term metric for the request result multiplied by 1 the competition metric for the request result . In some embodiments the KEI may be in a range from 1 8.

If more than one request result was returned the content recommendation module on the server s may rank the request results according to the KEI possibly organizing the request results into a list where a request result with a higher KEI is ranked higher than a request result with a lower KEI Step . Ranking the request results according to KEI and ordering the list of request results may allow request results with a higher KEI to be displayed in a more prominent position e.g. higher within a list of displayed request results on the control panel . In other words the KEI may represent a recommendation score for suggested content to encourage the website admin to create and rank for organic content specifically around keywords that people are searching on search engines.

Once the KEI has been calculated the content recommendation module on the server s may assign a recommendation possibly according to the recommendation score for including the request results in the content of the selected web page . The recommendation s may be ordered according to rank so that a request result with a higher KEI is more highly recommended than a request result with a lower KEI.

The content recommendation module on the server s may assign each KEI a degree of recommendation for the request result to be included in the content of the web page website . The degree of recommendation may be determined according to a range of numbers scored by the KEI. Specifically the KEI may be used to determine whether keywords phrases are recommended based on whether they are higher or lower than certain threshold numbers. As non limiting examples in embodiments where the KEI score includes a range of 1 8 if the KEI score is greater than 4.8 it may be highly recommended. By contrast if the KEI score is below 2.4 it may be classified as not recommended. In this non limiting example if the KEI score is greater than 2.4 but less than 4.8 it may be neither highly recommended nor not recommended. In some embodiments this means the result may be recommended but not highly recommended or may be neutral. 

For usability purposes the content recommendation module on the server s may then associate each degree of recommendation with a visual indicator of the degree of recommendation which indicates a status to the KEI assigned to the result. As non limiting examples the content recommendation module on the server s may associate a KEI that is highly recommended KEI greater than 4.8 with a positive graphic such as the illustrated star or a thumbs up check mark etc. Neutral KEI scores KEI between 2.4 and 4.8 may be associated with a neutral or less positive graphic such as the illustrated smiley face. A KEI score that is not recommended KEI below 2.4 may be associated with a negative graphic such as that illustrated or a thumbs down X dashes etc. Additional examples of visual indicators may include color coding the results so that as non limiting examples results with a KEI that is highly recommended KEI greater than 4.8 may be displayed in green results with a KEI that is neutral KEI between 2.4 and 4.8 may be displayed in yellow and results with a KEI that is not recommended KEI below 2.4 may be displayed in red. The content recommendation module on the server s may then transmit the recommendation ordered according to recommendation score and including the request results KEI and any visual indicators of degree of recommendation to the client s for display.

The website administrator may save the highest recommended result as a target keyword s . The website administrator may then use the target keyword s to optimize their website content to rank higher in search results. As a non limiting example the website administrator may use the highest ranking result allergies to add content containing this keyword in as many contexts as possible. When internet users search this keyword the web page containing several references to the keyword within the website may rank the website and or web page higher in the search results for that search. As seen in the requests and request results are not limited to a single search engine. Raw data from multiple search engines may be used to recommend suggested keywords and the website admin may compare any number of request results from multiple search engines in determining which content to add to the website.

The non limiting example embodiment illustrated in may include any of the characteristics and functionality described herein regarding the embodiment illustrated in or any other embodiment described herein. As seen in the website admin has selected the user interface element for Suggested Content rather than Keywords Being Searched. Like the embodiment illustrated in the user interface may receive the request for search engine optimization information which includes the keyword s . The client computer may transmit the request and any keyword s or other limiting parameters to the server s and the search engine request module on the server s may receive the request the keyword s and any other limiting parameters.

The search engine request module on the server s may be configured to further limit the request in embodiments such as that seen in so that not only does the request for the two metrics include request parameters for the keyword s selected by the website admin but may also include request parameters including one or more question keywords including as non limiting examples who what when where why and how. 

As a non limiting example the search term metric for the quantity of searches performed during a regular interval which included the keyword s may be further limited to include searches performed that included the keyword s and were in the form of a question. In embodiments where the website admin selected limits by geographical area or language the request may be further limited by the limitations included in these request parameters. The search engine request module on the server s may send the request including the limitations to the search engine API Step and may receive the request results Step as previously described.

In the non limiting example illustrated in a search for the keyword allergy limited by the question keywords who what when where how and why may return a plurality of searched question request results including what is an allergy what are allergies what causes allergies what is a food allergy what helps allergies why are people allergic to pollen how to treat allergies when is allergy season etc.

Using what is an allergy as a non limiting example request response returned to the search engine request module on the server s from a request limited to the keyword allergy and the question keyword what the request response may include information indicating that 4 090 000 global monthly searches were made. Global searches may indicate those responses which were not limited by geographic region. For responses limited by geographic region e.g. the United States the returned response may indicate for example that 2 240 000 local monthly searches were made for the question what is an allergy. 

The result may also include the competition metric for the non limiting example searched question what is an allergy. This result may be in any format including a range of descriptions such as Low Medium and High as described herein These range of descriptions may be determined by a numerical value in the raw data. As non limiting examples the numerical value for the competition value may be within a pre determined range such as a percentage of total searches for example.

In the non limiting example for a request result including the searched question what is an allergy the request result what is an allergy may return a competition value of 0.3 and display a competition value of low while what is a food allergy may return a competition metric of 0.45 and display competition value of medium. 

As seen in the one or more request results ordered by KEI score and or recommendations may be generated and transmitted to the client s according to the method steps disclosed herein relating to where the KEI may represent a recommendation score for suggested content to encourage the website administrator to create and rank for organic content specifically around topics that answer questions people are asking on search engines.

As a non limiting example the website administrator may use the highest ranking result what is an allergy as a title of a web page featuring an article which answers the question in this highest ranking result. Thus when Internet users search this question an article by that name within the website may rank higher in the search results for that search.

The non limiting example embodiment in illustrates an alternative embodiment for recommending keywords to be included in content to improve search engine optimization for a web page . In this embodiment the website admin may generate keywords by selecting a page from the control panel navigation as previously disclosed or entering a URL for the web page to be optimized into a provided text box.

The website admin may then select one or more URLs for one or more competitor web pages. As a non limiting example the website admin may select one or more websites returned as top search results with similar content.

A request may be sent to the server s to recommend keywords based on the selected competitor websites and the server s may use any web crawling techniques described herein or known in the art to crawl the content of the one or more selected competitor web pages to determine a quantity of repeated keywords or phrases found in the web pages. The server s may keep a running count of the keywords compile the keywords or phrases into a list along with a quantity count of each keyword or phrase rank the keywords phrases according to this quantity count and transmit the list of keywords phrases to the client computer for display.

As seen in the website admin may choose to add these keywords possibly by selecting the sign at the right of the returned keyword list to the website admin s saved keywords for the selected web page .

The server s may crawl the content within the selected web page s possibly using a web page crawler module not shown . Crawling also known as spidering may comprise the process of visiting one or more web pages and reading the content on the web page s on the website s to identify keywords within the content . The web crawler module may visit read the selected web page s identify some or all keywords on each web page of each website and generate a list of keywords that subsequently may be displayed on the control panel .

The server s analysis of How you want to be seen may comprise the one or more server s crawling the web page to conduct a page level analysis of the content of the selected web page. This page level analysis may be used to determine a count and density on the web page of one or more previously saved keywords or key phrases possibly stored in data storage used to optimize the web page s in search engine rankings.

For each of the previously saved keywords or key phrases the server s may crawl the selected web page s to determine if that keyword phrase is found in the content of that web page . The server may generate a list of each of the keywords phrases with their accompanying count of occurrences on the web page

In addition to determining a count of the total occurrences of stored keywords phrases included in the content of the selected web page the server s page level analysis may also determine a density rating for the keyword for that web page by dividing the number of occurrences on that web page by the total number of words in the content of that page. The server s may then associate the density rating with the appropriate keyword phrase in the generated list.

Once the density rating has been calculated the server s may assign a recommendation for optimal keyword density. For usability purposes the server s may assign the density rating a visual indicator of recommendation of optimal keyword density. The degree of recommendation may be determined according to a range of numbers scored by the density rating. Specifically the keyword density may be used to determine whether keywords are optimized on the web page based on whether they are higher or lower than certain threshold numbers.

As non limiting examples if the keyword density is greater than 4 or less than 2 the recommendation may be too many occurrences or too few occurrences respectively. By contrast if the keyword density is between 2 and 4 the density rating may be optimal. The website admin may opt to improve the keyword density for the selected web page and Rescan until an optimal keyword density is reached.

As with the KEI described above the server s may assign visual indicators to the density rating. As a non limiting example the density rating may be represented by a sliding scale from 1 100 of the keywords on the web page with an indicator of what percentage of those keywords are the selected keywords. The scale may be color coded so that the scale and any keyword density with too many or too few occurrences may be red while an optimal density rating may be displayed in orange yellow green or blue.

Once the list including the keyword phrase occurrence count density visual indicators and any color coding has been generated the server s may transmit the generated list for that web page to the client s . The list may then be displayed on the control panel as seen in .

As seen in the analysis of How search engines see you may comprise a list of keywords or phrases that exist on the selected web page . shows that the website admin may select a quantity of grouped keywords to be displayed.

The server s may receive the quantity of grouped keywords selected by the website admin to be displayed crawl the selected web page and identify groupings of keywords according to the selected quantity of grouped keywords. The server s may then generate a list for each grouping of the quantity of keywords and a count of occurrences of that grouping of keywords within the content of the web page . Using the count from the occurrences of the groupings of keywords the server s may then determine a keyword density for the keyword phrase as compared with the total content of the page. If the website admin selects a single keyword quantity stop words such as a us you I etc. may be eliminated from the calculation of the total quantity of keywords phrases for the content of the web page . The server s may then transmit the generated list including the grouped keyword or grouped phrase the count and the keyword density to the client s for display as seen in .

In this example embodiment there are 3 occurrences of the 3 word phrase our allergy doctor and 2 occurrences each of the three word phrases with respect and with integrity and we pledge to treat our patients to provide high and respect and consideration. The website admin may select any of these keyword groupings and choose to save the grouping as one of their saved keywords possibly by selecting the Save Keyword link displayed in as a non limiting example. The server s may receive the request to save these keywords and save the keywords for that web page possibly in data storage .

Other embodiments and uses of the above inventions will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the inventions disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the inventions.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present inventions or any of its embodiments.

