---

title: Nitric oxide-releasing particles for nitric oxide therapeutics and biomedical applications
abstract: The presently disclosed subject matter relates to nitric oxide-releasing particles for delivering nitric oxide, and their use in biomedical and pharmaceutical applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09403852&OS=09403852&RS=09403852
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 09403852
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150202
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 015 015 filed Aug. 30 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 157 036 filed Jun. 9 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 887 041 filed Jan. 15 2009 now abandoned which is a national stage application of PCT US2006 020781 filed May 30 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 685 578 filed May 27 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support from National Institutes of Health Grant Number EB000708. Thus the U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides nitric oxide releasing particles and their use in biomedical and pharmaceutical applications. More particularly in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides particles that release nitric oxide in a controlled and targeted manner thereby prolonging the therapeutic effects of nitric oxide and improving the specificity of nitric oxide delivery to targeted cells and or tissues.

The discovery of the multifaceted role of nitric oxide NO in biology physiology and pathophysiology see Marietta M. A. et al. 2 219 225 1990 has led to the search for nitric oxide donors capable of controlled nitric oxide release. See Keefer L. K. 28 30 35 1998 . To date researchers have discovered that NO regulates a range of biological processes in the cardiovascular gastrointestinal genitourinary respiratory and central and peripheral nervous systems. See Ignarro L. J. Academic Press San Diego 2000 and Ignarro L. J. et al. . U.S.A. 84 9265 9269 1987 . Furthermore the discovery of NO as a vasodilator and its identification as both an antibiotic and a tumoricidal factor have made NO an attractive pharmaceutical candidate. See for example Radomski M. W. et al. 92 639 646 1987 Albina J. E. and Reichner J. S. 17 19 53 1998 Nablo B. J. at al. 123 9712 9713 2001 Cobbs C. S. et al. 55 727 730 1995 Jenkins D. C. at al. . U.S.A. 92 4392 4396 1995 and Thomsen L. L. et al. 72 41 44 1995 .

Several nitric oxide donors have been reported the most notable being N diazeniumdiolates. Generally N diazeniumdiolate NO donors are small molecules synthesized by the reaction of amines with NO at elevated pressure and have been used for example to spontaneously generate NO in aqueous solution. See Hrabie J. A. and Keefer L. K 102 1135 1154 2002 .

Therapeutic strategies to explore the activities of nitric oxide donors for example to kill tumor cells are problematic in part because the nitric oxide delivery systems known in the art release or donate nitric oxide indiscriminately. Thus there is a need in the art for a nitric oxide delivery system that releases or donates nitric oxide in a controlled and or targeted manner to facilitate an improved understanding of the function of NO in physiology and to provide for the development of NO associated therapies.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a nitric oxide NO releasing particle comprising a nitric oxide donor an exterior region and an interior region having a volume the volume of the interior region at least partially filled by a core selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments the interior region further comprises an organic linker selected from the group consisting of a labile linker responsive to changes in pH a labile linker sensitive to electromagnetic radiation a labile linker susceptible to degradation by enzymatic action a hydrophobic linker an amphiphilic linker and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the NO donor is selected from the group consisting of a diazeniumdiolate a nitrosamine a hydroxylamine a nitrosothiol a hydroxyl amine and a hydroxyurea. In some embodiments the NO donor is covalently bound to one of the interior region the exterior region the core or to combinations thereof. In some embodiments the NO donor is encapsulated in one of the interior region the exterior region the core or to combinations thereof. In some embodiments the NO donor is associated with part of the particle via a non covalent interaction selected from the group consisting of Van der Waals interactions electrostatic forces hydrogen bonding or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the exterior region comprises one or more chemical moieties selected from the group consisting of moities that modulate the nitric oxide release kinetics affect the biocompatibility or the biodistribution of the particle provide for targeted delivery of the particle impart an ability to image or track the particle affect the solubility of the particle provide a therapeutic effect or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the core is a metallic cluster further comprising a component selected from the group consisting of gold platinum silver magnetite a quantum dot or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the metallic cluster is a monolayer protected gold cluster.

In some embodiments the core is a dendritic network selected from the group consisting of a polypropylenimine dendrimer a polyamidoamine dendrimer a polyaryl ether dendrimer a polypeptide dendrimer a polyester dendrimer a polyamide dendrimer a dendritic polyglycerol and a triazine dendrimer. In some embodiments the dendritic network is hyperbranched.

In some embodiments the core is a co condensed silica network synthesized from the condensation of a silane mixture comprising an alkoxysilane and an aminoalkoxysilane. In some embodiments the alkoxysilane is a tetraalkoxysilane of the formula Si OR wherein R is alkyl and the aminoalkoxysilane has a formula selected from 

In some embodiments the siline mixture comprises between about 10 mol to about 99 mol of tetraalkoxysilane and about 1 mol to about 90 mol of aminoalkoxysilane. In some embodiments the silane mixture further comprises about 0 mol to about 20 mol of fluorinated silane about 0 mol to about 20 mol of cationic or anionic silane and about 0 mol to about 20 mol of aikylsilane.

In some embodiments the tetraalkoxysilane is selected from group consisting of tetramethyl orthosilicate and tetraethyl orthosilicate.

In some embodiments the fluorinated silane is selected from the group consisting of heptadecafluoro 1 1 2 2 tetrahydrodecyl triethoxysilane 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl trimethoxysilane and perfluoroalkyl ethyltriethoxysilane.

In some embodiments the alkylsilane is selected from the group consisting of methyltrimethoxysilane butyltrimethoxysilane butyltriethoxysilane propyltrimethoxysilane and octadecyltrimethoxysilane.

In some embodiments the NO releasing particle comprising a co condensed silica network core and the NO donor is synthesized using a post charging method wherein the NO donor is formed after the condensation of the silica network in some embodiments the NO releasing particle comprising a co condensed silica network core is synthesized using a pre charging method wherein the NO donor is formed prior to the condensation of the silica network.

In some embodiments the organic linker comprises a functional group capable of conferring an on off state of nitric oxide release to the nitric oxide releasing particle wherein the functional group is selected from the group consisting of an ester a hydrazone an acetal a thiopropionate a photolabile moiety and an amino acid sequence subject to enzymatic degradation.

In some embodiments the exterior comprises a moiety capable of delivering the NO releasing particle to a target. In some embodiments the target is selected from a cell a tissue and an organ In some embodiments the cell is a cancer cell.

In some embodiments the moiety capable of delivering the NO releasing particle to the target is selected from the group consisting of a protein responsible for antibody antigen interaction folic acid guanidine transferrin a hormone carbohydrates a peptide containing the amino acid sequence RGD and TAT peptides.

In some embodiments the exterior comprises a moiety selected from a nitric oxide donor a poly ethyleneoxide a poly urethane an N 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylamide copolymer lactide glycolide copolymers e.g. poly lactic co glycolic acid PGA a sugar a fluorescent organic dye an MRI contrast agent a thiol a methyl terminated alkyl chain an antibiotic an anti cancer therapeutic a sulfonate a carboxylate a phosphate a cationic amine a quaternary amine and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the NO releasing particle has a diameter of from between about 1 nm and about 1000 nm. In some embodiments the particle has a metallic cluster core and the diameter of the particle is from between about 1 nm and about 5 nm. In some embodiments the particle has a co condensed silica network core and has a diameter of between about 2 nm and about 10 m.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject Matter provides a method or a formulation for delivering nitric oxide to a subject in some embodiments the method comprises administering an effective amount of a NO releasing particle to the subject said particle comprising a NO donor an exterior region and an interior region having a volume the volume of the interior region at least partially filled by a core selected from 

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of treating a disease state in a subject in need of treatment thereof wherein the method comprises administering to a subject in need of treatment a NO releasing particle comprising a NO donor an exterior region and an interior region having a volume the volume at least partially filled by a core selected from 

In some embodiments the disease state is selected from cancer a cardiovascular disease a microbial infection platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion caused by the exposure of blood to a medical device pathological conditions resulting from abnormal cell proliferation transplantation rejections autoimmune diseases inflammation vascular diseases scar tissue wound contraction restenosis pain fever gastrointestinal disorders respiratory disorders sexual dysfunctions and sexually transmitted diseases.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides polymeric films containing NO releasing particles. In some embodiments the polymeric films can be used to coat medical devices. In some embodiments the medical device is one of an arterial stent a guide wire a catheter a trocar needle a bone anchor a bone screw a protective plating a hip or joint replacement an electrical lead a biosensor a probe a suture a surgical drape a wound dressing and a bandage.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a detergent comprising a NO releasing particle.

Thus it is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide nitric oxide releasing particles. It is another object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide nitric oxide releasing particles for the targeted delivery of nitric oxide to a specific cell and or tissue. It is another object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide the ability to trigger the release of nitric oxide from nitric oxide releasing particles.

Certain objects of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated herein above which are addressed in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects and aspects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying Examples as best described herein below.

The presently disclosed subject matter will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying Examples in which representative embodiments are shown. The presently disclosed subject matter can however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the embodiments to those skilled in the art.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this presently described subject matter belongs. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Throughout the specification and claims a given chemical formula or name shall encompass all optical and stereoisomers as well as racemic mixtures where such isomers and mixtures exist.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a and an mean one or more when used in this application including the claims.

The term amphipathic as used herein refers to a chemical moiety having a hydrophobic region and a hydrophilic region.

The term cancer as used herein refers to diseases caused by uncontrolled cell division and the ability of cells to metastasize or to establish new growth in additional sites. The terms malignant malignancy neoplasm tumor and variations thereof refer to cancerous cells or groups of cancerous cells.

Specific types of cancer include but are not limited to skin cancers connective tissue cancers adipose cancers breast cancers lung cancers stomach cancers pancreatic cancers ovarian cancers cervical cancers uterine cancers anogenital cancers kidney cancers bladder cancers colon cancers prostate cancers central nervous system CNS cancers retinal cancer blood cancers and lymphoid cancers.

As used herein the term electromagnetic radiation refers to electric and magnetic waves such as but not limited to gamma rays x rays ultraviolet light visible light infrared light microwaves radar and radio waves.

The term hydrophobic refers to a chemical compound or moiety that to a given extent repels or does not interact with water through non covalent forces such as hydrogen bonding or electrostatic interactions. A compound can be strongly hydrophobic or slightly hydrophobic. The calculated dielectric constant of a compound or group can be used to predict the level or degree of hydrophobicity of the compound or moiety. Compounds or moieties with lower dielectric constants will be more hydrophobic. In particular a hydrophobic linker is one that will protect a labile linker or a NO donor in a NO releasing particle from exposure to water when the particle is placed in an aqueous environment for a period of time. A more hydrophobic linker will protect a NO donor or labile linker from water for a longer period of time.

The term ionizable refers to a group that is electronically neutral La uncharged in a particular chemical environment e.g. at a particular pH but that can be ionized and thus rendered positively or negatively charged in another chemical environment e.g. at a higher or lower pH .

The term mesoporous as used herein refers to an object such as a particle comprising pores in the range of between about 20 500 angstroms.

The term metallic refers to metals metal alloys metal salts and metal oxides. Thus the term metallic refers to particles comprising metal ions such as but not limited to gold silver copper platinum and titanium as well as semiconductor particles and magnetic particles e.g. particles comprising iron oxides .

The terms semiconductor nanocrystal and quantum dot are used interchangeably herein to refer to semiconductor nanoparticles comprising an inorganic crystalline material that is luminescent i.e. that is capable of emitting electromagnetic radiation upon excitation and including an inner core of one or more first semiconductor materials that is optionally contained within an overcoating or shell of a second semiconductor material. A semiconductor nanocrystal core surrounded by a semiconductor shell is referred to as a core shell semiconductor nanocrystal. The surrounding shell material can optionally have a bandgap energy that is larger than the bandgap energy of the core material and can be chosen to have an atomic spacing close to that of the core substrate.

Suitable semiconductor materials for the core and or shell include but are not limited to materials comprising a first element selected from Groups 2 and 12 of the Periodic Table of the Elements and a second element selected from Group 16. Such materials include but are not limited to ZnS ZnSe ZnTe CDs CdSe CdTe HgS HgSe HgTe MgS MgSe MgTe CaS CaSe CaTe SrS SrSe SrTe BaS BaSe BaTe and the like. Suitable semiconductor materials also include materials comprising a first element selected from Group 13 of the Periodic Table of the Elements and a second element selected from Group 15. Such materials include but are not limited to GaN GaP GaAs GaSb InN inP InAs InSb and the like. Semiconductor materials further include materials comprising a Group 14 element Ge Si and the like materials such as PbS PbSe and the like and alloys and mixtures thereof. As used herein all reference to the Periodic Table of the Elements and groups thereof is to the new IUPAC system for numbering element groups as set forth in the Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 81st Edition CRC Press 2000 .

By luminescence is meant the process of emitting electromagnetic radiation light from an object. Luminescence results when a system undergoes a transition from an excited state to a lower energy state with a corresponding release of energy in the form of a photon. These energy states can be electronic vibrational rotational or any combination thereof. The transition responsible for luminescence can be stimulated through the release of energy stored in the system chemically or added to the system from an external source. The external source of energy can be of a variety of types including chemical thermal electrical magnetic electromagnetic and physical or any other type of energy source capable of causing a system to be excited into a state higher in energy than the ground state. For example a system can be excited by absorbing a photon of light by being placed in an electrical field or through a chemical oxidation reduction reaction. The energy of the photons emitted during luminescence can be in a range from low energy microwave radiation to high energy x ray radiation. Typically luminescence refers to photons in the range from UV to IR radiation.

The term fluorescent refers to a compound or chemical group that emits light following exposure to electromagnetic radiation.

The terms nitric oxide donor or NO donor refer to species that donate release and or directly or indirectly transfer a nitric oxide species and or stimulate the endogenous production of nitric oxide in vivo and or elevate endogenous levels of nitric oxide in vivo such that the biological activity of the nitric oxide species is expressed at the intended site of action.

The terms nitric oxide releasing or nitric oxide donating refer to methods of donating releasing and or directly or indirectly transferring any of the three redox forms of nitrogen monoxide NO NO NO . In some cases the nitric oxide releasing or donating is accomplished such that the biological activity of the nitrogen monoxide species is expressed at the intended site of action.

The term about as used herein when referring to a value or to an amount of mass weight time volume or percentage is meant to encompass variations of 20 or 10 more preferably 5 even more preferably 1 and still more preferably 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed method.

The patient or subject treated in the many embodiments disclosed herein is desirably a human patient although it is to be understood that the principles of the presently disclosed subject matter indicate that the presently disclosed subject matter is effective with respect to all vertebrate species including mammals which are intended to be included in the terms subject and patient. In this context a mammal is understood to include any mammalian species in which treatment is desirable particularly agricultural and domestic mammalian species such as horses cows pigs dogs and cats.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to Cinclusive linear i.e. straight chain branched or cyclic saturated or at least partially and in some cases fully unsaturated i.e. alkenyl and alkynyl hydrocarbon chains including for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl octyl ethenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl octenyl butadienyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl heptynyl and allenyl groups. Branched refers to an alkyl group in which a lower alkyl group such as methyl ethyl or propyl is attached to a linear alkyl chain. Exemplary branched alkyl groups include but are not limited to isopropyl isobutyl tert butyl Lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group having 1 to about 8 carbon atoms i.e. a Calkyl e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 carbon atoms. Higher alkyl refers to an alkyl group having about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms e.g. 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cstraight chain alkyls. In other embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cbranched chain alkyls.

Alkyl groups can optionally be substituted a substituted alkyl with one or more alkyl group substituents which can be the same or different. The term alkyl group substituent includes but is not limited to alkyl substituted alkyl halo arylamino acyl hydroxyl aryloxyl alkoxyl alkylthio arylhio aralkyloxyl araikylthio carboxyl alkoxycarbonyl oxo and cycloalkyl. There can be optionally inserted along the alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen lower alkyl also referred to herein as alkylaminoalkyl or aryl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted alkyl includes alkyl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the alkyl group are replaced with another atom or functional group including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

The term aryl is used herein to refer to an aromatic substituent that can be a single aromatic ring or multiple aromatic rings that are fused together linked covalently or linked to a common group such as but not limited to a methylene or ethylene moiety. The common linking group also can be a carbonyl as in benzophenone or oxygen as in diphenylether or nitrogen as in diphenylamine. The term aryl specifically encompasses heterocyclic aromatic compounds. The aromatic ring s can comprise phenyl naphthyl biphenyl diphenylether diphenylamine and benzophenone among others. In particular embodiments the term aryl means a cyclic aromatic comprising about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms e.g. 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbon atoms and including 5 and 6 membered hydrocarbon and heterocyclic aromatic rings.

The aryl group can be optionally substituted a substituted aryl with one or more aryl group substituents which can be the same or different wherein aryl group substituent includes alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl aralkyl hydroxyl alkoxyl aryloxyl aralkyloxyl carboxyl acyl halo nitro alkoxycarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl aralkoxycarbonyl acyloxyl acylamino aroylamino carbamoyl alkylcarbamoyl dialkylcarbamoyl arylthio alkylthio alkylene and NR R wherein R and R can each be independently hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl and aralkyl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted aryl includes aryl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the aryl group are replaced with another atom or functional group Including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

Specific examples of aryl groups include but are not limited to cyclopentadienyl phenyl furan thiophene pyrrole pyran pyridine imidazole benzlmidazole isothiazole isoxazole pyrazole pyrazine triazine pyrimidine quinoline isoquinoline indole carbazole and the like.

 Cyclic and cycloalkyl refer to a non aromatic mono or multicyclic ring system of about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms e.g. 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbon atoms. The cycloalkyl group can be optionally partially unsaturated. The cycloalkyl group also can be optionally substituted with an alkyl group substituent as defined herein two and or alkylene. There can be optionally inserted along the cyclic alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl or substituted aryl thus providing a heterocyclic group. Representative monocyclic cycloalkyl rings include cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl. Multicyclic cycloalkyl rings include adamantyl octahydronaphthyl decalin camphor camphane and noradamantyl.

 Alkoxyl refers to an alkyl O group wherein alkyl is as previously described. The term alkoxyl as used herein can refer to for example methoxyl ethoxyl propoxyl isopropoxyl butoxyl t butoxyl and pentoxyl. The term oxyalky can be used interchangeably with alkoxyl .

 Aralkyl refers to an aryl alkyl group wherein aryl and alkyl are as previously described and included substituted aryl and substituted alkyl. Exemplary aralkyl groups include benzyl phenylethyl and naphthylmethyl.

 Alkylene refers to a straight or branched bivalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 carbon atoms. The alkylene group can be straight branched or cyclic. The alkylene group also can be optionally unsaturated and or substituted with one or more alkyl group substituents. There can be optionally inserted along the alkylene group one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms also referred to herein as alkylaminoalkyl wherein the nitrogen substituent is alkyl as previously described. Exemplary alkylene groups include methylene CH ethylene CH CH propylene CH cyclohexylene CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH N R CH wherein each of q and r is independently an integer from 0 to about 20 e.g. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 5 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 and R is hydrogen or lower alkyl methylenedioxyl O CH O and ethylenedioxyl O CH O . An alkylene group can have about 2 to about 3 carbon atoms and can further have 6 20 carbons.

 Arylene refers to a bivalent aryl group. An exemplary arylene is phenylene which can have ring carbon atoms available for bonding in ortho meta or para positions with regard to each other i.e. 

 Aralkylene refers to a bivalent group that contains both alkyl and aryl groups. For example aralkylene groups can have two alkyl groups and an aryl group i.e. alkyl aryl alkyl one alkyl group and one aryl group i.e. alkyl aryl or two aryl groups and one alkyl group i.e. aryl alkyl aryl .

The term amino and amine refer to nitrogen containing groups such as NR NH NHR and NHR wherein R can be alkyl branched alkyl cycloalkyl aryl alkylene arylene aralkylene. Thus amino as used herein can refer to a primary amine a secondary amine or a tertiary amine. In some embodiments one R of an amino group can be a diazeniumdiolate i.e. NONO .

The terms cationic amine and quaternary amine refer to an amino group having an additional i.e. a fourth group for example a hydrogen or an alkyl group bonded to the nitrogen. Thus cationic and quarternary amines carry a positive charge.

The term carboxyl refers to the COOH group and the term carboxylate refers to an anion formed from a carboxyl group i.e. COO .

As used herein the term alkoxysilane refers to a compound comprising one two three or four alkoxy groups bonded to a silicon atom. For example tetraalkoxysilane refers to Si OR wherein R is alkyl. Each alkyl group can be the same or different. An alkylsilane refers to an alkoxysilane wherein one or more of the alkoxy groups has been replaced with an alkyl group. Thus an alkylsilane comprises at least one alkyl Si bond. The term fluorinated silane refers to an alkylsilane wherein one of the alkyl groups is substituted with one or more fluorine atoms. The term cationic or anionic silane refers to an alkylsilane wherein one of the alkyl groups is further substituted with an alkyl substituent that has a positive i.e. cationic or a negative i.e. anionic charge or can become charged i.e. is ionizable in a particular environment i.e. in vivo .

The presently disclosed subject matter provides nitric oxide releasing particles and their use in biomedical and pharmaceutical applications. In many embodiments the presently disclosed particles release nitric oxide in a controlled and or a targeted manner and thereby improve and prolong the biological action and specificity of nitric oxide. In some embodiments the presently disclosed nitric oxide releasing particles can be functionalized to provide a new platform for the delivery of nitric oxide to cells and or tissues in vivo. Thus the presently disclosed nitric oxide releasing particles provide a unique scaffold for nitric oxide donor chemistry and nitric oxide release therapy.

Referring now to the presently disclosed particles P can in some embodiments be described in terms of comprising a core CR a nitric oxide donor NO an interior or interior region IR which comprises the area inside the exterior and an exterior or an exterior region ER. As described more fully hereinbelow interior IR can also contain organic linker 0LK that can optionally include a labile portion or group LP.

Exterior or exterior region ER can be defined as the outermost chemical functionality of particle P. In some embodiments exterior ER contains a moiety or moieties that can control the nitric oxide release kinetics of particle P alter the biocompatibility of particle P manipulate the solubility of particle P provide for the targeted delivery of particle P to a desired location e.g. a specific cell tissue or organ prior to NO release provide for imaging or tracking of particle P or supply an additional therapeutic agent i.e. in addition to the NO . Such an exterior ER can be said to control a function of NO releasing particle P or be functionalized. In some embodiments the chemical groups of exterior region ER can control more than one of the functions of NO releasing particle P and exterior ER can be described as multi functional. In some embodiments chemical moieties or other structural characteristics throughout particle P e.g. in core CR or interior IR can be used to control a factor or factors related to NO release kinetics particle solubility targeting imaging tracking additional therapeutic ability or biocompatibility and entire particle P can be described as multi functional.

As shown in in some embodiments interior region. IR comprises organic linker LK. As used herein the term organic linker or linker refers to an organic tether bridging the gap between the particle core and the particle exterior. In some embodiments as described more fully hereinbelow organic linker LK can comprise labile group LP. In some embodiments organic linker LK can be somewhat or substantially hydrophobic. In some embodiments linker LK is branched. In some embodiments linker LK is covalently attached to one or more of the other elements of particle P such as core CR exterior ER or NO donor N.

The particles of the presently disclosed subject matter can be any shape. Thus the particles can be spherical elliptical or amorphous. The size and shape of the particles is at least in part determined by the nature i.e. the chemical composition or the method of synthesis of the core. In some embodiments the size of the particle can be manipulated to affect the amount or rate of NO release.

In some embodiments the NO releasing particles are nanoparticles. In some embodiments the term nanoparticle Is meant to refer to a particle having a diameter of between about 0.5 rim and about 1000 nm. In some embodiments the nanoparticles have a diameter of between about 1 nm and about 500 nm. In some embodiments the nanoparticles can have a diameter of between about 2 nm and about 200 nm. In some embodiments the particles have a diameter of between about 1 nm and about 50 nm.

In some embodiments the particles are larger than 1000 nm. Thus in some embodiments the particle is a microparticle. In some embodiments the particles have a diameter of up to about 25 microns. In some embodiments the particle can have a diameter of up to about 100 microns.

The nitric oxide donor can be part of the core the interior or the exterior of the particle. The NO donor can be encapsulated in one of the core the interior or the exterior. The NO donor can be associated with a particular region of the particle via non covalent interactions such as Van der Waals interactions electrostatic interactions such as interactions between dipoles or between charged groups hydrogen bonding or combinations thereof. Further the NO donor can be covalently bonded to one of the core the interior or the exterior. The percent composition of the NO releasing moiety can be varied via covalent attachment or via encapsulation to impart an effective payload of nitric oxide for the desired therapeutic or other result.

The NO releasing moiety or NO donor is engineered in such a fashion as not to disrupt the other particle descriptors while storing its quantity of NO until the appropriate targeting of the particle has occurred. The NO release can be initiated thermally or via any of the degradation strategies for the labile portion of the linker as described herein below. Thus the NO donor can be any moiety capable of releasing NO including N diazeniumdiolates nitrosamines hydroxyl nitrosamines nitrosothiols hydroxyl amines hydroxyureas metal complexes organic nitrites and organic nitrates. See Wang P. G. et al. Wliey VCH Weinheim Germany 2005 and Wang. P. G. et al. 102 1091 1134 2002 .

In some embodiments the NO donor is a N diazeniumdiolate i.e. a 1 amino substituted deazen 1 lum 1 2 diolate N Diazeniumdiolates are particularly attractive as NO donors due to their ability to generate NO spontaneously under biological conditions. See Hrabie J. A. and Keefer L. K. 102 1135 1154 2002 and Napoli C. and Ianarro L. J. 43 97 123 2003 . As shown in Scheme 1 below several N diazeniumdiolate compounds have been synthesized using a range of nucleophilic residues that encompass primary and secondary amines polyamines and secondary amino acids See Hrabie J. A. and Keefer L. K. 102 1135 1154 2002 . In the formation of the N diazeniumdiolate one equivalent of amine reacts with two equivalents of nitric oxide under elevated pressure. A base e.g. an alkoxide like methoxide removes a proton from the amine nitrogen to create the anionic stabilized N O NO group. While stable under ambient conditions N diazeniumdiolates decompose spontaneously in aqueous media to generate NO at rates dependent upon pH temperature and or the structure of the amine moiety. For example N diazeniumdiolate modified proline PROLI NO 2 dimethylamino ethylputreamlne DMAEP NO N N dimethylhexanediamine DMHD NO and diethylenetriamine DETA NO have been developed as small molecule NO donors with diverse NO release half lives ranging from 2 seconds to 20 hours at pH 7.4 and 37 C. See Hrabie J. A. and Keefer L. K. 102 1135 1154 2002 and Keefer L. K. 43 585 607 2003 .

As described in more detail immediately hereinbelow in some embodiments the core of the presently disclosed particles comprises a material selected from the group including but not limited to a a metallic cluster b a dendritic network and c a co condensed silica i.e. siloxane bonded network possessing variable silane functionality.

In some embodiments the core of the presently disclosed particles comprises a metallic cluster. The metallic clusters can comprise any metallic complex that can be passivated or protected for further functionalization. For example protected metallic complexes can be formed in some embodiments by being coated with organic polymers or silica. Metallic complexes can also be protected with monolayers of organic molecules wherein the organic molecules contain a functionality that coordinates to or otherwise forms a covalent or non covalent bond with metal atoms at the surface of the metallic complex.

The metallic complexes can be metals metal alloys metal salts or metal oxides. In some embodiments the metallic complex comprises gold sliver platinum iron oxide i.e. FeO FeO or FeO or semiconductor particles such as CdSe and the like. In some embodiments the iron oxide is magnetite i.e. FeO . In some embodiments the core Is a monolayer protected gold cluster which can be formed via a variety of methods known in the art including the Brust method and the Schufz Dobrick method.

Monolayer protected cluster MPC gold nanoparticles or MPCs see Brust M. 801 602 1994 have received much attention due to their unique size 1 nm to 5 nm stability and highly functional design. See Feldheim D. L. and Foss C. A. eds Marcel Dekker Inc New York p. 360 2000 . As shown in the exterior of MPCs can be altered by place exchanging in other thiols containing desired functional groups. See Hostetler M. I. et al. Langmuir 15 3782 3789 1999 .

Further functionalization of the particles with receptor molecules to enable specific antibody antigen or ligand receptor interactions allows for the targeting of specific tissues or cells. The size and stability of NO releasing MPC gold nanoparticles provides for a range of biomedical and pharmaceutical applications including in vivo sensor design and topical creams to enhance wound healing and or dilate blood vessels below the skin.

Dendrimers provide a unique scaffold for nitric oxide donor chemistry whereby the multivalent dendritic exterior can be functionalized to suit any number of materials science or biomedical applications.

Dendrimers are polymers with densely branched structures having a large number of reactive groups. A dendritic polymer includes several layers or generations of repeating units which all contain one or more branch points. Dendrimers including hyperbranched dendritic polymers are prepared by condensation reactions of monomeric units having at least two reactive groups. Dendrimers generally consist of terminal surface groups interior branch junctures having branching functionalities greater than or equal to two and divalent connectors that covalently connect neighboring branching junctures.

Dendrimers can be prepared by convergent or divergent synthesis. Divergent synthesis of dendrimers involves a molecular growth process that occurs through a consecutive series of geometrically progressive step wise additions of branches upon branches in a radially outward direction to produce an ordered arrangement. Thus each dendritic macromolecule can be said to include a core cell one or more layers of internal cells and an outer layer of surface cells wherein each of the cells includes a single branch juncture. The cells can be the same or different in chemical structure and branching functionality. The surface branch cells may contain either chemically reactive or passive functional groups Chemically reactive surface groups can be used for further extension of dendritic growth or for modification of dendritic molecular surfaces. The chemically passive groups may be used to physically modified dendritic surfaces such as to adjust the ratio of hydrophobic to hydrophilic terminals and or to improve the solubility of the dendritic polymer for a particular solvent.

The convergent synthesis of dendrimers involves a growth process that begins from what will become the surface of the dendron or dendrimer and progresses radially toward a focal point or core. The dendritic polymers may be ideal or non ideal i.e. imperfect or defective. Imperfections are normally a consequence of either incomplete chemical reactions or unavoidable competing side reactions. In practice real dendritic polymers are generally non ideal i.e. contain certain amounts of structural imperfections.

Hyperbranched dendritic networks refer to a class of dendritic polymers that contain high levels of non ideal irregular branching. Specifically hyperbranched polymers contain a relatively high number of irregular branching areas in which not every repeat unit contains a branch juncture. The preparation and characterization of dendrimers dendrons random hyperbranched polymers controlled hyperbranched polymers and dendrigrafts is well known. Examples of dendimers and dendrons and methods of synthesizing the same are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 507 466 4 558 120 4 568 737 4 587 329 4 631 337 4 694 064 4 713 975 4 737 550 4 871 779 and 4 857 599. Examples of hyperbranched polymers and methods of preparing the same are set forth for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 418 301.

Suitable dendrimers for use as core scaffolds of the presently disclosed particles include polypropylenimine dendrimer polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimer polyaryl ether dendrimer polylysine dendrimer polyester dendrimer polyarnide dendrimer dendritic polyglycerol and triazine dendrimers 

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a series of polypropylenimine PPI dendrimer conjugates which comprise exterior secondary amines. The secondary amine containing PPI dendrimers can be synthesized from PPI dendrimers having exterior primary amines by acylating the primary amines and reducing the carbonyl of the resulting amide groups to form secondary amines. Alternatively the primary amines can be acylated with groups already containing a secondary amine. Far example the exterior primary amines of a PPI dendrimer can be acylated with praline.

The secondary amine functional group of the dendrimers is converted in high yields to a nitric oxide donor in the presence of a strong base and gaseous nitric oxide. As provided herein the dendrimer size and surface functionality effect both the percent conversion of the secondary amine to the nitric oxide donor and the nitric oxide release kinetics.

Inorganic organic hybrid silica nanoparticles functionalized ceramic composites prepared from silicon dioxide have been explored for applications spanning separation biological labeling diagnostics and carrier systems for the controlled delivery of drugs genes and proteins. See Lai C. Y. et al. 125 4451 4459 2003 Munoz. B. et al. 15 500 503 2003 Roy I. et al. U.S.A. 102 279 284 2005 Trewvn B. G. et al. 4 2139 2143 2004 and Yoshitake H. 29 1107 1117 2005 . The drug delivery potential of silica particles has received much attention because of their physical and chemical versatility and non toxic nature. See Sayari A. and Hambudi S. 13 3151 3168 2001 and Stein A. et al. 12 1403 1419 2000 . The synthesis of inorganic organic hybrid silica modified with reactive organic groups e.g. amines carboxylates thiols olefins halides and epoxides capable of further functionalization with deliverable molecules has been reported See Savari A. and Hamoudi S. 13 3151 3168 2001 and Stein A. et al. 12 1403 1419 2000 Indeed numerous silane coupling agents with the aforementioned functional moieties have been developed for surface grafting via free silanol groups of drugs and other therapeutics. See Anwander R. et al. 117 135 142 1998 .

In one example Meyerhoff and coworkers have reported grafting amine functionalized silylation reagents onto the surface of fumed silica amorphous particles 0.2 0.3 gm in diameter . See Thane H. et al. 125 5015 5024 2003 . The surface bound amines were then converted to N diazeniumdiolate NO donors. The NO releasing silica was employed as filler for preparing silicone rubber polymer coatings with improved hemocompatibility.

The usefulness of such scaffolds as therapeutic NO delivery systems remains hindered for multiple reasons. Since the modification is restricted to the outer surface of the particles the NO storage capability is inherently limited control over the NO release kinetics is problematic and NO donor moieties are more susceptible to contamination from reactive species e.g. radicals peroxides and transition metals in biological fluids. See Keefer L. K. 43 585 607 2003 Naooli. C. and Ionarro L. J. 43 97 123 2003 and Zhou Z. and Meyerhoff M. E. Biomacromolecules 6 780 789 2005 .

The particles of the presently described subject matter can comprise co condensed silica networks that provide NO delivery systems of increased NO storage capacity and an enhanced ability to control NO release kinetics. In some embodiments the presently disclosed NO releasing silica based particles are prepared via a one pot synthetic strategy. See Stein A. et al. 12 1403 1419 2000 Hatton B. et al. 38 305 312 2005 Lin H. P. and Mou C Y. 35 927 935 2002 . Thus as shown in the inorganic organic hybrid silica particles are prepared via a sol gel process involving the co condensation of tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS or another alkoxysilane with di or tri aminoalkoxysilaries. The sol gel process involves two types of chemical reactions a hydrolysis reaction in which an alkoxy group of an alkoxysilane is hydrolyzed to a silanol i.e. a hydroxy group attached to the Si atom followed by a condensation reaction wherein two silanols or a silanol and an alkoxysilane react to form a siloxane bond i.e. Si O Si .

The advantage of a one pot approach is that the N diazeniumdiolate NO donor precursors i.e. the amino groups of the di and tri aminoalkoxysilane can be distributed uniformly throughout the entire particle as opposed to only at the surface as is the case for amine modified silica particles formed via surface grafting methods. See . Indeed the direct one pot synthesis provides better structural stability and more straightforward control over the amount of organoalkoxysilanes incorporated in the silica structure See Stein A. et al. 12 1403 1419 2000 and Lim M H. and Stein A. 11 3285 3295 1999 . Further additional silanes containing a variety of other functional groups can also be co condensed into the structure thereby affecting the size the solubility or the porosity of the particles.

Thus in some embodiments the nanoparticle core comprises a co condensed silane network formed from the co condensation of an alkoxysilane and an aminoalkoxysilane. In some embodiments the aminoalkoxysilane is further functionalized after the co condensation by treatment with nitric oxide so that the amines are transformed into N diazeniumdiolates. See . In some embodiments the aminoalkoxysilane is pretreated or precharged with nitric oxide prior to co condensation with the alkoxysilane. See . The pre charging method can be used to create a co condensed silica particle more densely functionalized with NO donors.

In some embodiments the alkoxysilane is a tetraalkoxysilane having the formula Si OR wherein R is an alkyl group. The R groups can be the same or different. In some embodiments the tetraalkoxysilane is selected tetra methyl orthosilicate TMOS or tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS .

In some embodiments the aminoalkoxysilane has the formula R NHR Si OR wherein R is alkyl R is alkylene branched alkylene or aralkylene n is 1 or 2 and R is selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl aryl and alkylamine. In some embodiments the aminoalkoxysilane can be selected from N 6 aminohexyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane AHAP3 N 6 aminoethyl aminopopyltrimethoxysilane 3 trimethoxysilylpropyi diethylenetriamine DET3 arninoethylaminomethyl phenethyltrimethoxysilane AEMP3 3 methylamino propyltrimethoxysilane N butylamino propyltrimethoxysilane N ethylaminoisobutyltrimethoxysilane N phenylamino propyltrimethoxysilane and N cyclohexylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane. The structures of representative suitable aminoalkoxysilanes are shown in .

In some embodiments the aminoalkoxysilane has the formula NH R Si OR wherein R is alkyl and R is alkylene. Thus in some embodiments the aminoalkoxysilane can be selected from bis 3 trimethoxysilyl propyl amine and bis 3 trimethoxysifyl propyl ethylenediamine.

In some embodiments as described hereinabove the aminoalkoxysliane is precharged for NO release and the amino group is substituted by a diazeniumdiolate. Therefore in some embodiments the aminoalkoxysilane has the formula R N NONOX R Si OR wherein R is alkyl R is alkylene or aralkylene R is alkyl or alkylamine and X is a cation selected from the group consisting of Na K and Li.

The composition of the silica network e.g. amount or the chemical composition of the aminoalkoxysilane and the nitric oxide charging conditions e.g. the solvent and base can be varied to optimize the amount and duration of nitric oxide release. Thus in some embodiments the composition of the presently disclosed silica particles can be modified to regulate the half life of NO release from silica particles.

In some embodiments the hydrophobicity of nitric oxide releasing silica particles can be controlled by co condensing silane precursors having a variety of functional groups into the co condensed silica network. In some embodiments the other silane precursors are selected from the group including but not limited to alkylsilanes positively charged silanes negatively charged silanes and fluorinated silanes. in some embodiments the other silane precursors can be selected from heptadecafluoro 1 1 2 2 tetrahydrodecyl triethoxysilane 3 3 3 trifluoro propyl trimethoxysilane perfluoroalkyl ethyltriethoxysilane N N didecyl N methyl N 3 trimethoxysilyl ammonium chloride octadecyldimethyl 3 trimethoxysilyipropyl ammonium chloride 3 trihydroxysllylpropylmethyl phosphonate sodium salt carboxylethylsilanetriol sodium salt methyltrimethoxysilane butyltrimethoxysilane butyltriethoxysilane propyltrimethoxysllane and octadecyitrimethoxysilane.

In some embodiments the co condensed silica network comprises i.e. is formed from the condensation of a solution containing between about 10 mol to about 99 mol of tetraalkoxysliane about 1 mol to about 90 mol of aminoaikoxysilane about 0 mol to about 20 mol of fluorinated silane about 0 mol to about 20 mol of cationic or anionic silane and about 0 mol to about 20 mol of alkylsilane.

In some embodiments the porosity and the NO release capability of the silica network can be controlled by co condensing silanes in the presence of a templating component. Such templating components can include surfactants and micelles. After condensation of the silica network the templating component can be removed leaving pores in the silica. The incorporation of pores in a NO releasing silica particle can increase the surface area available for NO donor loading or can serve to increase the rate of NO release by increasing the accessibility of water to the NO donors.

For example shows the schematic representation of the synthesis of a mesoporous silica network using micelles as pore templates. As shown in micelles can self associate in a controlled solvent environment to form an ordered three dimensional structure such as a micellular rod or an even more highly structured array of multiple rods. Solutions containing mixtures of silanes can be introduced into the micelle solution and condensed surrounding but not penetrating the micelle rods. Following condensation of the silane mixture the micelles can be removed from the condensed silica via solvent extraction leaving behind pores in the silica.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides functionalized silicas silicas that can be further elaborated through a variety of chemical coupling reactions known in the art. In some embodiments the functionalized silica is an amino modified silica. In some embodiments the functionalized silica is an epoxy modified silica.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed silica chemistry is combined with hydroxylamine chemistry. In some embodiments the presently disclosed silica chemistry is combined with hydroxyurea chemistry.

Controlled and or targeted delivery techniques typically enhance the efficacy and or safety of an active agent by controlling the rate and or location of the release of the active agent. In some embodiments the release of nitric oxide from the presently disclosed nitric oxide releasing particles can be selectively turned on or turned off i.e. triggered as desired.

In some embodiments the organic linker comprises a labile portion. In such embodiments the triggered degradation of the linker can affect the mechanism quantity rate and duration of NO release. Referring to labile portion LP of linker LK can be placed at variable positions A B or C in relation to exterior ER such that the position of linker LK further affects the mechanism quantity rate and duration of NO release. For example in some embodiments position A of can be adjacent to NO donor NO in interior IR of NO releasing particle P of position B can be centrally located between NO donor NO and exterior ER and position C can be located in close proximity to exterior ER. Thus in some embodiments a labile group LP at position C can be degraded more quickly by environmental conditions to which particle P is subjected in turn exposing NO donor NO located in interior IR of particle P to the same environmental conditions sooner. Labile groups LP located more deeply in particle interior IR at positions A or B can in some embodiments provide for prolonged or delayed release kinetics.

In some embodiments the labile portion of the linker can be degraded by exposure to a stimulus e.g. via a triggering mechanism. In some embodiments the stimulus or triggering mechanism is selected from the group including but not limited to pH light and enzymatic action.

In embodiments wherein decomposition of the labile portion of the linker is triggered by pH the linker comprises functionalities such as esters hydrazones acetals and or other organic functional groups which are responsive to changes in pH. Accordingly in some embodiments the linker decomposes in a predetermined pH range. More particularly in some embodiments the linkers are designed to utilize the pH of increased acidity inside an endosome the cellular structure resulting from internalization of a macromolecule via endocytosis.

In some embodiments decomposition of the linker is triggered by exposure to light. In such embodiments the labile portion is subject to photocleavage such that a photolabile moiety is built into the variable linker that results in degradation of the linker structure upon exposure to light.

In some embodiments an enzyme substrate is incorporated into the linker to impart specificity of the system to a desired enzyme environment of interest followed by degradation of the linker via the enzymatic pathway of interest.

Thus in some embodiments the lability of the linker can be used as a strategy to control the mechanism quantity rate and duration of NO release from the NO releasing moiety. Labile linkers include esters hydrozones acetals thiopropionates photolabile moieties and amino acid sequences subject to enzyme degradation.

In some embodiments the organic linker is a hydrophobic linker. A hydrophobic linker can be chosen as an approach for protecting the NO donor for example the diazeniumdiolate and or the labile linker from contact with water or protons when the particle is placed in an aqueous environment. The length and exact chemical composition of a hydrophobic linker can therefore be used to control the NO release kinetics. The term hydrophobic can include groups that are strongly hydrophobic i.e. have a very low dielectric constant or are only somewhat hydrophobic i.e. would allow water to slowly penetrate into the interior of the particle .

Alternatively the organic linker can be amphiphilic containing both hydrophobic and hydrophilic groups. Such a linker might provide channels in the interior of the particle thereby enhancing solvent access to a labile linker or a NO donor.

NO release can also be controlled through encapsulation of the NO donor in a carrier system such as a nano or microparticle a cell a cell ghost a lipoprotein a liposome a micelle a microbubble a microsphere or a particle made at least partially of insoluble or biodegradable natural or synthetic polymers. In such a system the NO can be gradually released as the carrier degrades in the body. The rate of degradation typically varies responsively to conditions in the subject such as temperature pH level and enzymatic activity. Thus through the use of such delivery techniques a sustained release of the therapeutic agent can be maintained for long periods of time.

As provided herein the exterior interior and or core of the presently disclosed particles can be functionalized to impart biocompatibility alter pharmacokinetic behavior convey targeting functionality add additional therapeutic components and impart imaging capability relevant to the delivery and study of the NO as a therapeutic. In some embodiments the exterior of the particle can be functionalized with one or more chemical or biomolecular moieties.

The exterior can be of uniform or variable chemical composition. In some embodiments the functionalizatlon of the exterior of the particle can comprise the addition of a layer or coating surrounding the interior of the particle. In some embodiments the functionalization can involve the addition of one or more pendant groups to individual points on the periphery of the particle. Thus the exterior can comprise one or more pendant antigens for particle targeting as discussed more fully herein below. The exterior can also comprise individual chemical moieties that affect solubility such as hydroxy groups thiols methyl terminated alkyl chains sulfonates phosphates carboxylates and cationic or quaternary amines. Further the exterior can comprise a polymeric layer for example a hydrophilic polymer to impart improved aqueous solubility or a known biocompatible polymer. The polymeric layer can be a biodegradable polymer which can protect the NO donor from water for a period of time when used either in vivo or in vitro. Such a polymer coating can thereby affect the NO release kinetics by allowing for continued NO release over time as the polymer coating degrades. Suitable polymers for functionalizing the exterior of the presently described particles include poly ethyleneoxide poly urethanes N 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylamide copolyrnes and lactide glycolide copolymers e.g. PLGA .

In some embodiments additional functionalization of the particle enables targeting of specific cells tissues or organs. Thus in some embodiments the presently disclosed nitric oxide releasing particles can be further modified by attaching selective recognition agents to the surface or exterior thereof. Such selective recognition agents include but are not limited to small molecule ligands biomolecules such as antibodies and antibody fragments and other agents such as cytokines hormones carbohydrates sugars vitamins and peptides.

A specific targeting moiety is not required in all cases. In some embodiments the site specific targeting can also include a more passive approach such as the enhanced permeability and retention effect EPR associated with tumor vasculature. Site specific targeting can also be accomplished by the used of NO release particles containing linkers that trigger release of the nitric oxide only upon contact with enzymes specific to a disease state or to a particular organ or tissue. Finally targeting can be accomplished via localized delivery of the particles for example topically directly to a wound or through injection directly to a tumor site.

Generally when a particle targets cells through a cell surface moiety it is taken into the cell through receptor mediated endocytosis. Any moiety known to be located on the surface of target cells e.g. tumor cells finds use with the presently disclosed particles. For example an antibody directed against such a cell surface moiety can be used. Alternatively the targeting moiety can be a ligand directed to a receptor present on the cell surface or vice versa.

In particle embodiments using a specific targeting moiety i.e. a particle associated moiety designed to direct the particle to a specific cell tissue or organ the targeting moiety is optionally associated with the exterior of the particle. The targeting moiety can be conjugated directly to the exterior via any useful reactive group on the exterior such as for example an amine an alcohol a carboxylate an isocyanate a phosphate a thiol a halide or an epoxide. For example a targeting moiety containing or derivatized to contain an amine that is not necessary for the recognition of the moeity with the targeted cell can be coupled directly to a carboxylate present on the particle exterior using carbodilmide chemistry. The targeting moiety can also be linked to a reactive group on the exterior of the particle through a short bi functional linker such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP commercially available from Pierce Chemical Company Rockford Ill. United States of America . Alternatively a longer bifunctional linker can be used such a polyethylene glycol PEG based bifunctional linker commercially available from EMD Biosciences Inc. La Jolla Calif. United States of America or Shearwater Polymers Huntsville Ala. United States of America .

Targeting moieties for use in targeting cancer cells can be designed around tumor specific antigens including but not limited to carcinoembryonic antigen prostate specific antigen tyrosinase ras a sialyly lewis antigen erb MACE 1 MAGE 3 BAGE MN gp100 gp75 p97 proteinase 3 a mucin CD81 CID9 CD63 CD53 CD38 CO 029 CA125 GD2 GM2 and O acetyl GD3 M TAA M fetal or M urinary find use with the presently disclosed subject matter. Alternatively the targeting moiety can be designed around a tumor suppressor a cytokine a chemokine a tumor specific receptor ligand a receptor an inducer of apoptosis or a differentiating agent. Further given the importance of the angiogenisis process to the growth of tumors in some embodiments the targeting moiety can be developed to target a factor associated with angiogenisis. Thus the targeting moiety can be designed to interact with known angiogenisis factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF . See Brannon Peppas L. and Blanchette J. O. 56 1649 1659 2004 .

Tumor suppressor proteins provided for targeting include but are not limited to p16 p21 p27 p53 p73 Rb Wilms tumor WT 1 DCC neurofibromatosis type 1 NF 1 von Hippel Lindau VHL disease tumor suppressor Maspin Brush 1 BRCA 1 BRCA 2 the multiple tumor suppressor MTS gp95 p97 antigen of human melanoma renal cell carcinoma associated G250 antigen KS 1 4 pan carcinoma antigen ovarian carcinoma antigen CA125 prostate specific antigen melanoma antigen gp75 CD9 CD63 CD53 CD37 R2 CD81 C0029 TI 1 L6 and SAS. Of course these are merely exemplary tumor suppressors and it is envisioned that the presently disclosed subject matter can be used in conjunction with any other agent that is or becomes known to those of skill in the art as a tumor suppressor.

In some embodiments targeting is directed to factors expressed by an oncogene. These include but are not limited to tyrosine kinases both membrane associated and cytoplasmic forms such as members of the Src family serine threonine kinases such as Mos growth factor and receptors such as platelet derived growth factor PDDG SMALL GTPases G proteins including the ras family cyclin dependent protein kinases cdk members of the myc family members including c myc N myc and L myc and bcl 2 and family members Cytokines that can be targeted by the presently disclosed particles include but are not limited to IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 1L 4 IL 5 1L 6 IL 7 IL 8 1L 9 IL 10 ILA 1 IL 12 IL 13 1L 14 IL 15 TNF GM CSF 8 interferon and y interferon. Chemokines that can be used include but are not limited to M1P1a M1P1b and RANTES.

Enzymes that can be targeted include but are not limited to cytosine deaminase hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase galactose 1 phosphate uridyltransferase phenylalanine hydroxylase glucocerbrosidase sphingomyelinase a L iduronidase glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase HSV thymidine kinase and human thymidine kinase.

Receptors and their related ligands that find use in the context of the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to the folate receptor adrenergic receptor growth hormone receptor luteinizing hormone receptor estrogen receptor epidermal growth factor receptor fibroblast growth factor receptor and the like. In some embodiments the targeting moiety is selected from the group consisting of folic acid guanidine transferrin carbohydrates and sugars. In some embodiments the targeting moiety is a peptide selected from the group consisting of the amino acid sequence RGD and TAT peptides.

For example folic acid can be a particularly useful targeting moiety in targeting cancer cells. Cancerous tumor cells have an over expression of folate receptors on their cellular surface. Folic acid FA can be covalently bound to the nanoparticle exterior with varying percent modification to impart the FA targeted delivery of the NO releasing nanoparticles. Because of its small size many folic acid ligands can be attached to the surface of a particle. Wiener has reported that dendrimers with attached folic acid specifically accumulate on the surface and within tumor cells expressing the high affinity folate receptor hFR while control cells lacking hFR showed no significant accumulation of the folate derivatized dendrimers. See Wiener E. C. et al. 32 12 748 754 1997 . Folic acid can be attached to amines on the exterior of a particle via a carbodiimide coupling reaction.

A larger yet still relatively small targeting moiety is epidermal growth factor EGF a single chain peptide with 53 amino acid residues. It has been shown that PAMAM dendrimers conjugated to EGF with the linker SPDP bind to the cell surface of human glioma cells and are endocytosed accumulating in lysosomes. See CapAla J. et al. 7 1 7 15 1996 . Since EGF receptor density is up to 100 times greater on brain tumor cells compared to normal cells EGF provides a useful targeting agent for these kinds of tumors. Since the EGF receptor is also overexpressed in breast and colon cancer EGF can be used as a targeting agent for these cells as well. Similarly the fibroblast growth factor receptors FGFR also bind the relatively small polypeptides FGF and many are known to be expressed at high levels in breast tumor cell lines particularly FGF1 2 and 4 . See Penault Llorca F. et al. 61 2 170 176 1995 .

Hormones and their receptors include but are not limited to growth hormone prolactin placental lactogen luteinizing hormone foilicle stimulating hormone chorionic gonadotropin thyroid stimulating hormone leptin adrenocorticotropin ACTH angiotensin I angiotensin II endorphin melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH cholecystokinin endothelin I galanin gastric inhibitory peptide GIP glucagon insulin amylin lipotropins GLP 1 7 37 neurophysins and somatostatin.

The presently disclosed subject matter contemplates that vitamins both fat soluble and non fat soluble vitamins placed in the targeting component of the nanodevice can be used to target cells that have receptors for or otherwise take up these vitamins. Particularly preferred for this aspect are the fat soluble vitamins such as vitamin D and its analogues vitamin E Vitamin A and the like or water soluble vitamins such as Vitamin C and the like.

Antibodies can be generated to allow for the targeting of antigens or immunogens e.g. tumor tissue or pathogen specific antigens on various biological targets e.g. pathogens tumor cells normal tissue . In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter the targeting moiety is an antibody or an antigen binding fragment of an antibody e.g. Fab units . Thus antibodies include but are not limited to polyclonal antibodies monoclonal antibodies chimeric antibodies single chain antibodies Fab fragments and an Fab expression library.

One example of a well studied antigen found on the surface of many cancers including breast HER2 tumors is glycoprotein p185 which is exclusively expressed in malignant cells. See Press M. F. et al. 5 7 953 962 1990 . Recombinant humanized anti HER2 monoclonal antibodies rhuMabHER2 are commercially available under the name HERCEPTIN from Genentech South San Francisco Calif. United States of America . Other representative antibodies suitable for use with the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to 1gC type antibodies 60 bca and J591 which bind to CD14 and prostate specific membrane antigen PSMA see Baker J. R. Jr. 5 2269 2274 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and antibodies F5 and C1 which bind to ErbB2 growth factor of breast tumor cell line SK BR 3.

As described hereinabove the ability of a particle to provide targeted delivery of NO is not limited to embodiments involving pendant targeting agents attached to the particle exterior. Non exterior associated characteristics of the particle also can be used for targeting. Thus in some embodiments the enhanced permeability and retention EPR effect is used in targeting. The EPR effect is the selective concentration of macromolecules and small particles in the tumor microenvironment caused by the hyperpermeable vasculature and poor lymphatic drainage of tumors. To enhance EPR in some embodiments the exterior of the particle can be coated with or conjugated to a hydrophilic polymer to enhance the circulation half life of the particle and to discourage the attachment of plasma proteins to the particle.

In some embodiments the targeting moiety can be a magnetic moiety such as magnetite. In some embodiments the core of the particle comprises magnetite. In some embodiments the magnetite core is further coated with a shell containing a co condensed silica network that contains or can be functionalized to contain an NO donor. Once administered to a subject magnetic particles can be directed to their target i.e. the site of desired NO release through the application of a magnet. Such a magnet can be applied externally i.e. outside of the patient or subject .

For additional exemplary strategies for targeted drug delivery in particular targeted systems for cancer therapy see Brannon Peppas L. and Blanchette J. O. 56 1649 1659 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 471 968 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the NO releasing particle can comprise a moiety to aid in the imaging or tracking of the particles either in viva or ex vivo. Tracking of the particles can be useful in determining the efficacy of the nitric oxide release in treating a disease or in assessing the specificity of the targeting of the particle. An imaging or tracking moiety can be associated with any of the core the interior or the exterior of the particle. In some embodiments the imaging or tracking moiety is covalently attached to one of the core the interior or the exterior of the particle. In some embodiments the tracking agent or moiety is part of the core for example in particles containing quantum dot cores.

In some embodiments the tracking of imaging agent is one of a fluorescent molecule an organic dye or a radioisotope.

In some embodiments the imaging agent can be a magnetic resonance imaging MRI contrast agent. Thus in some embodiments the exterior of the particle will be functionalized to contain a group capable of chelating to a paramagentic ion for example diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid DTPA the chelating group of the commonly used MRI agent Gd III diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid Gd III DTPA . Other paramagnetic ions that can be useful in this context of the include but are not limited to gadolinium manganese copper chromium iron cobalt erbium nickel europium technetium indium samarium dysprosium ruthenium ytterbium yttrium and holmium ions and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments one or more additional therapeutic agents can be used in combination with the NO donor of the presently described particles. Such additional agents can be incorporated into the particles themselves or be part of a formulation comprising the particles or doses as a separate formulation prior to after or at the same time as a formulation including the particles. Such additional therapeutic agents include in particular anti cancer therapeutics anti microbial agents pain relievers anti inflammatories vasodialators and immune suppressants as well as any other known therapeutic agent that could enhance the alleviation of the disease or condition being treated.

In embodiments wherein the additional therapeutic agent or agents are incorporated into the NO releasing particles the additional therapeutic can be associated with any of the exterior the interior or the core of the particle. For example the additional agents can be encapsulated into the core or linkers in the interior portion of the particle. The additional agents can also be covalently attached to the core the interior or the exterior of the particles. Further attachment of the additional agent can include a triggered release strategy wherein the additional agents can be tethered to the particle via a labile linker that releases the agent upon contact with water an increase in pH or enzymatic or photolytic cleavage preferably at the desired site of action e.g. a tumor cell etc. .

The choice of additional therapeutic agents to be used in combination with an NO releasing particle will depend on various factors including but not limited to the type of disease the age and the general health of the subject the aggressiveness of disease progression and the ability of the subject to tolerate the agents that comprise the combination.

A variety of chemical compounds also described as antineoplastic agents or chemotherapeutic agents can be used in combination with or incorporated into the presently disclosed NO releasing particles used in the treatment of cancer. Such chemotherapeutic compounds include but are not limited to alkylating agents DNA intercalators protein synthesis inhibitors inhibitors of DNA or RNA synthesis DNA base analogs topoisomerase inhibitors anti angiogenesis agents and telomerase inhibitors or telomeric DNA binding compounds. For example suitable alkylating agents include alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as a benzodizepa carboquone meturedepa and uredepa ethylenimines and methylmelamines such as altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolmelamine nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cyclophosphamide estramustine iphosphamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichine phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide and uracil mustard nitroso ureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimustine.

Antibiotics used in the treatment of cancer include dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin idarubicin bleomycin sulfate mytomycin plicamycin and streptozocin. Chemotherapeutic antimetabolites include mercaptopurine thioguanine cladribine fludarabine phosphate fluorouracil 5 FU floxuridine cytarabine pentostatin methotrexate and azathioprine acyclovir adenine 1 D arabinoside amethopterin aminopterin 2 aminopurine aphidicolin 8 azaguanine azaserine 6 azauracil 2 azido 2 deoxynucleosides 5 bromodeoxycytidine cytosine 1 D arabinoside diazooxynorleucine dideoxynucleosides 5 fluorodeoxycytidine 5 fluorodeoxyuridine and hydroxyurea.

Chemotherapeutic protein synthesis inhibitors include abrin aurintricarboxylic acid chloramphenicol colicin E3 cycloheximide diphtheria toxin edeine A emetine erythromycin ethionine fluoride 5 fluorotryptophan fusidic acid guanylyl methylene diphosphonate and guanylyl imidodiphosphate kanamycin kasugamycin kirromycin and O methyl threonine. Additional protein synthesis inhibitors include modeccin neomycin norvaline pactamycin paromomycine puromycin ricin shiga toxin showdomycin sparsomycin spectinomycin streptomycin tetracycline thiostrepton and trimethoprim. Inhibitors of DNA synthesis including alkylating agents such as dimethyl sulfate mitomycin C nitrogen and sulfur mustards intercalating agents such as acridine dyes actinomycins adriamycin anthracenes benzopyrene ethidium bromide propidium diiodide intertwining and agents such as distamycin and netropsin can be used as part of the presently disclosed cancer treatments. Topoisomerase inhibitors such as coumermycin nalidixic acid novobiocin and oxolinic acid inhibitors of cell division including colcemide colchicine vinblastine and vincristine and RNA synthesis inhibitors including actinomycin D a amanitine and other fungal amatoxins cordycepin 3 deoxyadenosine dichlororibofuranosyl benzimidazole rifampicine streptovaricin and streptolydigin also can be combined with or incorporated into the particles of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide a suitable cancer treatment.

Thus current chemotherapeutic agents that can be used as part of or in combination with the presently describe NO releasing particles include adrimycin 5 fluorouracil 5FU etoposide camptothecin actinomycin D mitomycin cisplatin hydrogen peroxide carboplatin procarbazine mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide ifosfamide melphalan chjlorambucil bisulfan nitrosurea dactinomycin duanorubicin doxorubicin bleomycin pilcomycin tamoxifen taxol transplatimun vinblastin and methotrexate and the like.

As used herein the term antimicrobial agent refers to any agent that kills inhibits the growth of or prevents the growth of a babteria fungus yeast or virus. Suitable antimicrobial agents that can be incorporated into the presently disclosed NO releasing particles to aid in the treatment or prevention of a microbial infection include but are not limited to antibiotics such as vancomycin bleomycin pentostatin mitoxantrone mitomycin dactinomycin plicamycin and amikacin. Other antimicrobial agents include antibacterial agents such as 2 p sulfanilyanilinoethanol 4 4 sulfinyldianiline 4 sulfanilamidosalicylic acid acediasulfone acetosulfone amikacin amoxicillin amphotericin B ampicillin apalcillin apicycline apramycin arbekacin aspoxicillin azidamfenicol azithromycin aztreonam bacitracin bambermycin s biapenem brodimoprim butirosin capreomycin carbenicillin carbomycin carumonam cefadroxil cefamandole cefatrizine cefbuperazone cefclidin cefdinir cefditoren cefepime cefetamet cefixime cefmenoxime cefininox cefodizime cefonicid cefoperazone ceforanide cefotaxime cefotetan cefotiam cefozopran cefpimizole cefpiramide cefpirome cefprozil cefroxadine ceftazidime cefteram ceftibuten ceftriaxone cefuzonam cephalexin cephaloglycin cephalosporin C cephradine chloramphenicol chlortetracycline ciprofloxacin clarithromycin clinafloxacin clindamycin clindamycin phosphate clomocycline colistin cyclacillin dapsone demecicycline diathymosulfone dibekacin dihydrostreptomycin dirithromycin doxycycline enoxacin enviomycin epicillin erythromycin flomoxef fortimicin s gentamicin s glucosulfone solasulfone gramicidin S gramicidin s grepafloxacin guamecycline hetacillin imipenem isepamicin josamycin kanamycin s leucomycin s lincomycin lomefloxacin lucensomycin lymecycline meclocycline meropenem methacycline micronomicin midecamycin s minocycline moxalactam mupirocin nadifloxacin natamycin neomycin netilmicin norfloxacin oleandomycin oxytetracycline p sulfanilylbenzylamine panipenem paromomycin pazufloxacin penicillin N pipacycline pipemidic acid polymyxin primycin quinacillin ribostamycin rifamide rifampin rifamycin SV rifapentine rifaximin ristocetin ritipenem rokitamycin rolitetracycline rosaramycin roxithromycin salazosulfadimidine sancycline sisomicin sparfloxacin spectinomycin spiramycin streptomycin succisulfone sulfachrysoidine sulfaloxic acid sulfamidochrysoidine sulfanilic acid sulfoxone teicoplanin temafloxacin temocillin tetracycline tetroxoprim thiamphenicol thiazolsulfone thiostrepton ticarcillin tigemonam tobramycin tosufloxacin trimethoprim trospectomycin trovafloxacin tuberactinomycin and vancomycin. Antimicrobial agents can also include anti fungals such as amphotericin B azaserine candicidin s chlorphenesin dermostatin s filipin fungichromin mepartricin nystatin oligomycin s perimycin A tubercidin imidazoles triazoles and griesofulvin.

Accordingly in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method for the delivery of nitric oxide to a subject which in some embodiments is intended to treat a disease or condition in a subject in need of treatment thereof. In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method for the targeted delivery of nitric oxide to a specific site in a subject. Such a site can be specific cells tissues or organs. Thus the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method for treating cancer cardiovascular diseases and microbial infections for the inhibition of platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion caused by the exposure of blood to a medical device for treating pathological conditions resulting from abnormal cell proliferation transplantation rejections autoimmune inflammatory proliferative hyperproliferative vascular diseases for reducing scar tissue or for inhibiting wound contraction including the prophylactic and or therapeutic treatment of restenosis by administering the nitric oxide donor optionally in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent. The presently disclosed subject matter also provides a method for treating inflammation pain fever gastrointestinal disorders respiratory disorders sexual dysfunctions and sexually transmitted diseases.

In some embodiments the methods of the presently disclosed subject matter can be useful for treatment of a subject as defined herein. The subject treated in the presently disclosed subject matter in its many embodiments is a human subject although it is to be understood that the principles of the presently disclosed subject matter indicate that the presently disclosed subject matter is effective with respect to all vertebrate species including mammals which are intended to be included in the term subject . In this context a mammal is understood to include any mammalian species in which treatment is desirable particularly agricultural and domestic mammalian species.

Accordingly the term subject as used herein refers to any invertebrate or vertebrate species. The methods of the presently disclosed subject matter are particularly useful in the treatment of warm blooded vertebrates. Thus the presently disclosed subject matter concerns mammals and birds. More particularly provided is the treatment and or diagnosis of mammals such as humans as well as those mammals of importance due to being endangered such as Siberian tigers of economical importance animals raised on farms for consumption by humans and or social importance animals kept as pets or in zoos to humans for instance carnivores other than humans such as cats and dogs swine pigs hogs and wild boars ruminants such as cattle oxen sheep giraffes deer goats bison and camels and horses. Also provided is the treatment of birds including the treatment of those kinds of birds that are endangered kept in zoos as well as fowl and more particularly domesticated fowl e.g. poultry such as turkeys chickens ducks geese guinea fowl and the like as they also are of economical importance to humans. Thus provided is the treatment of livestock including but not limited to domesticated swine pigs and hogs ruminants horses poultry and the like.

The presently disclosed therapeutic compositions in some embodiments comprise a composition that includes a presently disclosed nitric oxide releasing nanoparticle and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Suitable compositions include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions that can contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats bactericidal antibiotics and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the bodily fluids of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which can include suspending agents and thickening agents.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed therapeutic compositions comprise an additional therapeutic agent in combination with the nitric oxide releasing nanoparticles wherein the additional therapeutic agent has additional desired therapeutic properties or enhances the therapeutic properties of the nitric oxide releasing nanoparticles. The additional therapeutic agent can be administered in the same or a different therapeutic composition. Thus the term in combination can refer to the administration of active agents in a single composition or in one or more separate compositions.

The compositions used in the presently disclosed methods can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the active ingredient can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

The therapeutic compositions can be presented in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and can be stored in a frozen or freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of sterile liquid carrier immediately prior to use.

For oral administration the compositions can take the form of for example tablets or capsules prepared by a conventional technique with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as binding agents e.g. pregelatinized maize starch polyvinylpyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose fillers e.g. lactose microcrystalline cellulose or calcium hydrogen phosphate lubricants e.g. magnesium stearate talc or silica disintegrants e.g. potato starch or sodium starch glycollate or wetting agents e.g. sodium lauryl sulphate . The tablets can be coated by methods known in the art. For example a therapeutic agent can be formulated in combination with hydrochlorothiazide and as a pH stabilized core having an enteric or delayed release coating which protects the therapeutic agent until it reaches the target organ.

Liquid preparations for oral administration can take the form of for example solutions syrups or suspensions or they can be presented as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations can be prepared by conventional techniques with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents e.g. sorbitol syrup cellulose derivatives or hydrogenated edible fats emulsifying agents e.g. lecithin or acacia non aqueous vehicles e.g. almond oil oily esters ethyl alcohol or fractionated vegetable oils and preservatives e.g. methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoates or sorbic acid . The preparations also can contain buffer salts flavoring coloring and sweetening agents as appropriate. Preparations for oral administration can be suitably formulated to give controlled release of the active compound. For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of tablets or lozenges formulated in conventional manner.

The compounds also can be formulated as a preparation for implantation or injection. Thus for example the compounds can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials e.g. as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives e.g. as a sparingly soluble salt . The compounds also can be formulated in rectal compositions e.g. suppositories or retention enemas containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides creams or lotions or transdermal patches.

Pharmaceutical formulations also are provided which are suitable for administration as an aerosol by inhalation. These formulations comprise a solution or suspension of a NO releasing particle described herein. The desired formulation can be placed in a small chamber and nebulized. Nebulization can be accomplished by compressed air or by ultrasonic energy to form a plurality of liquid droplets or solid particles comprising the NO releasing particles. For example the presently disclosed NO releasing particles can be administered via inhalation to treat bacterial infections related to cystic fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis related bacterial infections include but are not limited to infections.

The term effective amount is used herein to refer to an amount of the therapeutic composition e.g. a composition comprising a nitric oxide releasing particle sufficient to produce a measurable biological response. Actual dosage levels of active ingredients in an active composition of the presently disclosed subject matter can be varied so as to administer an amount of the active compound s that is effective to achieve the desired response for a particular subject and or application. The selected dosage level will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the composition formulation the route of administration combination with other drugs or treatments severity of the condition being treated and the physical condition and prior medical history of the subject being treated. Preferably a minimal dose is administered and dose is escalated in the absence of dose limiting toxicity to a minimally effective amount. Determination and adjustment of an effective dose as well as evaluation of when and how to make such adjustments are known to those of ordinary skill in the art of medicine.

For administration of a composition as disclosed herein conventional methods of extrapolating human dosage based on doses administered to a murine animal model can be carried out using the conversion factor for converting the mouse dosage to human dosage Dose Human per kg Dose Mouse per kg 12. See Freireich et al. 50 219 244 1966 . Drug doses also can be given in milligrams per square meter of body surface area because this method rather than body weight achieves a good correlation to certain metabolic and excretionary functions. Moreover body surface area can be used as a common denominator for drug dosage in adults and children as well as in different animal species. See Freireich et al. 50 219 244 1966 . Briefly to express a mg kg dose in any given species as the equivalent mg sq m dose multiply the dose by the appropriate km factor. In an adult human 100 mg kg is equivalent to 100 mg kg 37 kg sq m 3700 mg m.

For additional guidance regarding formulation and dose see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 326 902 5 234 933 PCT International Publication No. WO 93 25521 Berkow et al. Home ed. Merck Research Laboratories Whitehouse Station N.J. 1997 Goodman et al. 9th ed. McGraw Hill Health Professions Division New York 1996 Ebadi CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1998 Katzunq 8th ed. Lange Medical Books McGraw Hill Medical Pub. Division New York 2001 Remington et al. 15th ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. 1975 and Speight et al. 4th ed. Adis International Auckland Philadelphia 1997 Dutch et al. 100 101 255 263 1998 .

Suitable methods for administering to a subject a composition of the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to systemic administration parenteral administration including intravascular intramuscular intraarterial administration oral delivery buccal delivery subcutaneous administration inhalation intratracheal installation surgical implantation transdermal delivery local injection and hyper velocity injection bombardment. Where applicable continuous infusion can enhance drug accumulation at a target site see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 082 .

The particular mode of drug administration used in accordance with the methods of the presently disclosed subject matter depends on various factors including but not limited to the agent and or carrier employed the severity of the condition to be treated and mechanisms for metabolism or removal of the active agent following administration.

In some embodiments the NO releasing particles can be incorporated into polymeric films. Such incorporation can be through physically embedding the particles into polymer surfaces via electrostatic association of particles onto polymeric surfaces or by covalent attachment of particles onto reactive groups on the surface of a polymer. Alternatively the particles can be mixed into a solution of liquid polymer precursor becoming entrapped in the polymer matrix when the polymer is cured. Polymerizable groups can also be used to functionalize the exterior of the particles whereupon the particles can be co polymerized into a polymer during the polymerization process. Suitable polymers into which the NO releasing particles can be incorporated include polyolefins such as polystyrene polypropylene polyethylene polytetrafluoroethylene and polyvinylidene as well as polyesters polyethers polyurethanes and the like. In particular polyurethanes can include medically segmented polyurethanes. A generalized structure for a medically segmented polyurethane is shown in . Such polyurethanes can include hard segments i.e. moieties that are relatively rigid and soft segments i.e. moieties having more degrees of freedom that can exist in a number of alternate inter converting conformations. Medically segmented polyurethanes can also include one or more expander moieties such as alkylene chains that add additional length or weight to the polymer. Such polyurethanes are also generally non toxic. One example of a medically segmented polyurethane is TECOFLEX . See .

Polymeric films containing NO releasing particles can be used to coat a variety of articles particularly surgical tools biological sensors and medical implants to prevent platelet adhesion to prevent bacterial infection to act as a vasodilator. These articles can be of use in vascular medical devices urological medical devised biliary medical devices gastrointestinal medical devices medical devices adapted for placement at surgical sites and medical devices adapted for placement on skin wounds or openings. Thus the polymers can be used to coat arterial stents guide wires catheters trocar needles bone anchors bone screws protective platings hip and joint replacements electrical leads biosensors probes sutures surgical drapes wound dressings and bandages.

In some embodiments the device being coated can have a metallic surface such as for example stainless steel nickel titanium aluminum copper gold silver platinum and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the films or polymers containing the NO releasing particles can be used to coat non metallic surfaces such as glass or fiber e.g. cloth or paper 

Additionally polymers containing NO releasing particles can be used to form the devices themselves. For example the polymers can be fashioned into storage bags for blood or tissue or as wound dressings.

Further the NO releasing particles can be incorporated into detergents such as but not limited to anti microbial soaps. For example NO release in particles embedded in bar soaps can be triggered by contact with water and or a drop in pH upon use. As the outer surface of the bar is eroded or dissolved additional particles within the bar surface become exposed for subsequent uses of the bar. NO releasing particles also can be suspended in liquid soaps. Such soaps or detergents can be used for personal hygiene or to provide anti microbial treatments for fibers. Such soaps or detergents can also be used to treat household surfaces or any surface in a hospital or other medical environment that may be exposed to microbes such as bacteria fungi or viruses.

The following Examples have been included to provide guidance to one of ordinary skill in the art for practicing representative embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill can appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Gold nanoparticles were functionalized with amines in a two step process by first place exchanging Br functionalized thiol ligands onto the gold nanoparticle core with subsequent addition of amine by a reaction with Br. See . Sample H NMR spectra were acquired for each step of the synthesis as presented in .

More particularly gold nanoparticles were synthesized by the Brust method via the reaction of hydrogen tetrachloroaurate salt with hexanethiol in the presence of sodium borohydride. See Hostetler M. I. et al. 14 17 30 1998 After 30 min the reaction was quenched with water. The nanoparticles were collected by filtration and washed with acetonitrile then functionalized with bromo terminated alkanethiols by the place exchange method. See Hostetler M. I. et al. 15 3782 3789 1999 .

The incoming bromo terminated ligand 11 Bromo 1 undecanethiol as synthesized in Example 2 described herein below see Troughton B. B. et al. 4 365 385 1988 was added 3 1 ratio of bromo to methyl terminated alkanethiol to a solution of gold nanoparticles in methylene chloride and stirred for 30 min. The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation and the gold nanoparticles were purified with acetonitrile. The extent of ligand exchange monitored by NMR was controlled by varying the reaction time and or concentration of bromo alkanethiol. The bromo functionalized gold nanoparticles were then dissolved in toluene or methylene chloride and reacted with ethylenediamine butylamine hexanediamine or diethylenetriamine. The disappearance of the CHBr peak in the NMR spectra of the functionalized nanoparticles indicated the completion of the reaction See . The amine functionalized gold nanoparticles were then suspended in a solution of methanol and sodium methoxide base and pressurized to 5 atm NO for 3 days with constant stirring to facilitate the synthesis of diazeniumdiolate NO donors. The N diazeniumdiolate modified monolayer protected clusters MPCs were filtered washed with excess methanol and stored at 4 C. until use.

The size and stability of the MPC gold nanoparticles were characterized using thermal gravimetric analysis TGA UV Vis spectroscopy and transmission electron microscopy TEM . The organic content of hexanediamine modified gold nanoparticles was determined to be approximately 22 a value consistent with previous reports for hexanethiol MPCs composed of 140 gold atoms core protected by 53 thiol ligands. See Hostetler M. I. et al. 14 17 30 1998 .

Because NO is highly reactive and might disrupt gold sulfur bonds see Hrabie J. A. and Keefer L. K. 102 1135 1154 2002 the stability of the hexanethiol MPCs after exposure to high pressures of NO was evaluated using TGA and UV Vis spectroscopy to ensure that the conditions necessary for diazeniumdiolate formation did not compromise nanoparticle integrity. Both the organic content of the nanoparticles as studied by TGA and the UV Vis spectra remained the same following NO exposure indicating negligible influence on monolayer stability. Transmission electron microscopy images further confirmed that the core diameter of the nanoparticles remained constant 2.1 0.9 nm regardless of amine derivatization or diazeniumdiolate formation. These studies suggest that the structural integrity of the MPC gold nanoparticles was not compromised by the conditions necessary to synthesize the NO donor and Introduce NO release capability.

11 Bromo 1 undecanethiol was synthesized in two steps see . First 11 bromo 1 undecene 5.0 g was converted to a thioacetate by reacting with AiBN 1.5 g and thioacetic acid 10 mL in toluene 50 mL . The reaction was run under Ar and refluxed for 2 h. The solution was washed with excess water and the toluene removed by rotary evaporation. The thioacetate was converted into a thiol by exposing the 11 bromo 1 undecanethioacetate to dry HCl. Acetyl chloride 6 mL was added dropwise to dry methanol in an ice bath under Ar. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and the reaction progressed for approximately 6 h. Methylene chloride and water were added and the methylene chloride layer was washed several times with water. The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation.

Nitric oxide release of the presently disclosed NO releasing particles was measured according to the following general procedure. Referring now to a predetermined volume of phosphate buffer solution PBS pH 7.4 37 C. was disposed in a receptacle e.g. a round bottomed flask. The receptacle was sealed leaving an inlet for nitrogen gas and an outlet for a mixture of nitrogen and nitric oxide. The outlet was in fluid communication with a chemiluminescence nitric oxide analyzer. An aliquot of a solution containing a diazeniumdiolated species was injected into the PBS buffer. The chemiluminescence nitric oxide analyzer measured the amount of NO that reacted with ozone O3 to form excited NO which emitted electromagnetic radiation hv as shown in Scheme 2.

Nitric oxide release was measured in phosphate buffered saline solution at physiological temperature and pH using a Sievers NOA chemiluminescence nitric oxide analyzer Boulder Colo. United States of America . As presented in Table 1 below and in the NO release for diazeniumdiolate modified gold nanoparticles was tunable by varying the number and or the chemical structure of the substituted amine ligands. A schematic showing the release of nitric oxide from a functionalized monolayer protected cluster MPC gold nanoparticle is shown in .

Referring once again to Table 1 and increasing the concentration of ethylenedlamine ligand from 14 to 21 led to a corresponding increase in total NO release 9750 to 19 300 pmol NO mg MPC and NO release duration from 200 to 300 min . Without being bound to any particular theory of operation it is suggested that the elevated NO release is attributed to enhanced NO donor formation due to a larger concentration of amines. A small amount of NO 400 pmol mg also was measured from the hexanethiol MPC controls. This NO release was negligible at periods greater than 5 min suggesting that a small amount of NO likely intercalates within the hydrophobic alkyl chains under the conditions necessary for diazeniumdiolate synthesis 5 atm NO but such NO is rapidly released upon solution immersion.

The diazeniumdiolate modified MPCs also released low levels of NO under a warm 37 C. stream of nitrogen gas suggesting a possible thermal dissociation mechanism. The level of NO release however was greater in buffer suggesting that the N diazeniumdiolate modified nanoparticles undergo both proton driven and thermal dissociation. The diazeniumdiolate modified MPCs retained full NO release characteristics when stored under nitrogen at 4 C. for up to 14 days the longest period investigated .

The NO release from diazeniumdiolate modified MPCs also was tunable by varying the amine precursor structure. Increasing the length of the alkyl chain separating the nitrogens from two to six methylene units led to an increase in the total amount of NO released see Table 1 and d and f 19 300 to 87 000 pmol NO mg MPC for ethylenediamine and hexanediamine modified MPCs respectively suggesting a NO release diazeniumdiolate structure relationship.

Indeed the half life data Table 1 show that separating the amines results in a more rapid release of NO as well analogous to the dissociation behavior reported for small molecule diazeniumdiolates. See Hrabie J. A. et al. 58 1472 1476 1993 Davies K. M. et al. 123 5473 5481 2001 .

The total amount of NO released from diethylenetriamine modified MPCs 38 000 pmol NO mg was between that measured for ethylenediamine and hexanediamine modified MPCs. The presence of an additional secondary amine in diethylenetriamine likely accounts for increased NO donor formation and release capability relative to ethylenediamine even though the length of the alkyl chain separating the nitrogens remains short two methylene units .

Butylamine modified MPCs a secondary monoamine derivative were characterized by the lowest total NO release of all the amine modified MPCs studied. Diazeniumdiolate formation is facilitated by the additional amine. See Hrabie J. A. et al. 58 1472 1476 1993 Davies K. M. et al. 123 5473 5481 2001 . Notably the diazeniumdiolate conversion efficiency for the amine modified MPCs was calculated to be less than 1 regardless of amine structure.

Polypropylenimine hexadecaamine dendrimer DAB Am 16 available from Aldrich Chemical Company Milwaukee Wis. United States of America see was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days in the presence of sodium methoxide NaOMe . This procedure yielded 0.74 moles nitric oxide mole dendrimer 2.3 conversion and 2.3 10moles nitric oxide released.

Polypropylenimine tetrahexacontaamine dendrimer DAB Am 64 available from Aldrich Chemical Company Milwaukee Wis. United States of America see was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days in the presence of NaOMe. This procedure yielded 4.94 moles nitric oxide mole dendrimer 3.9 conversion and 1.18 10moles nitric oxide released.

DAB C7 16 see Scheme 4 below was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days In the presence of NaOMe MeOH Scheme 5 . This procedure yielded 12 moles NO mole dendrimer 37.9 conversion and 3.74 10moles NO released.

DAB C7 64 was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days in the presence of NaOMe MeOH. This procedure yielded 45 moles NO mole dendrimer 35.6 conversion and 1.48 10moles NO released.

A graph showing nitric oxide release versus time for DAB C7 16 NaOMe MeOH is shown in . Likewise a graph showing nitric oxide release versus time for DAB C7 64 NaOMe MeOH is shown in .

DAB Ac 16 Scheme 6 was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days in the presence of NaOMe. This procedure yielded 0.039 moles NO mole dendrimer 0.12 conversion and 4.95 10moles NO released.

DAB Ac 64 was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days in the presence of NaOMe. This procedure yielded 0.22 moles NO mole dendrimer 0.17 conversion and 3.75 10moles NO released.

DAB Pro 16 Scheme 7 was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days in the presence of NaOMe. This procedure yielded 42 moles NO mole dendrimer 130 conversion and 1.92 10moles NO released.

DAB Pro 64 was charged at 5 atm nitric oxide for three days in the presence of NaOMe. This procedure yielded 480 moles NO mole dendrimer 377 conversion and 4.79 10moles NO released.

NO release from amine derivatized dendrimers synthesized as described in Example 6 was measured according to the procedure outlined in Example 1 Results are summarized below in Table 2.

NO release from a variety of NO releasing materials was measured according to the procedure outlined in Example 3. Results are summarized below in Table 3. The diazeniumdiolated fumed silica particles were prepared as described in Example 9 below grafting the fumed silica surface to N 6 aminohexyl 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane followed by diazeniumdiolation of the secondary amine with NO gas.

Referring now to NO releasing silica particles with a particle size ranging from about 200 nm to about 300 nm are prepared following the method described by Zhang H. et al. 125 5015 2003 .

Tetraethyl orthosillicate TEOS tetramethylsilane TMS and sodium methoxide NaOMe were purchased from Fluke Buchs Switzerland . Silanes including aminoethylaminomethyl phenethyltrimeth oxysilane AEMP3 N 6 aminohexyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane AHAP3 N 2 aminoethyl 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane AEAP3 and N 3 trimeth oxysilyl propyl diethylenetriamine DET3 were purchased from Gelest Tullytown Pa. United States of America . N N Dimethylformamide DMF was purchased from Sigma Chemical Company St. Louis Mo. United States of America . Methanol MeOH ethanol EtOH toluene and ammonia solution NHOH 30 wt in water were purchased from Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. United States of America . Nitric oxide NO 99.5 argon Ar and nitrogen N gases were obtained from AGA Gas Maumee Ohio United States of America or National Welders Supply Raleigh N.C. United States of America . Other solvents and chemicals were analytical reagent grade and used as received. A Millipore Milli Q UV Gradient A10 System Millipore Corporation Bedford Mass. United States of America was used to purify distilled water to a final resistivity of 18.2 M 2 cm and a total organic content 6 ppb.

Silane solutions were prepared by mixing 2.78 mmol 620 L of TEOS with different concentrations of AEAP3 AHAP3 AEMP3 or DET3 0 0.70 mmol corresponding to 0 20 mol balance TEOS for 10 min. The silane solution was then combined with 22 mL of EtOH and 6 mL of ammonia 30 wt in water and vigorously stirred for 30 min under ambient conditions. The white precipitate was collected by centrifugation 5000 rpm 5 min washed with EtOH copiously and dried under vacuum overnight.

The resulting amine functionalized silica was resuspended in 18 mL of DMF and 2 mL of MeOH in the presence of NaOMe 0.32 0.70 mmol adding an equimolar amount of NaOMe corresponding to the secondary amine content of silica composites and placed in 10 mL vials equipped with a stir bar. The vials were placed in a Parr bottle 200 mL connected to an in house NO reactor and flushed with Ar six times to remove oxygen in the suspension. The reaction bottle was then charged with NO to 5 atm and sealed for 3 d while stirring. The NO gas was purified over KOH pellets for 2 h to remove trace NO degradation products. Prior to removing the silica particles unreacted NO was purged from the chamber with Ar. The N diazeniumdiolate modified silica particles were recollected by centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 5 min washed copiously with ethanol dried under ambient conditions for 1 h and stored in a sealed container at 20 C. until used

Solid state cross polarization magnetic angle spinning CP MAS Si nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectra were obtained at 293 K on a Bruker 360 MHz DMX spectrometer Billerica Mass. United States of America equipped with wide bore magnets triple axis pulsed field gradient double resonance probes . Silica composite particles 0 10 13 and 17 mol AEAP3 balance TEOS were packed into 4 mm rotors double resonance frequency of 71.548 MHz and spun at a speed of 8.0 kHz. The chemical shifts were determined in ppm relative to a TMS external standard.

For atomic force microscopy AFM imaging the silica particles were suspended in toluene deposited on a freshly cleaved mica surface and dried under ambient conditions for 3 h. Contact mode AFM images were obtained in air using a Molecular Force Probe 3D Atomic Force Microscope Asylum Research Santa Barbara Calif. United States of America controlled with a MFP 3D software running under Igor Pro Wavemetrics Lake Oswego Oreg. United States of America . Triangular silicon nitride cantilevers with a nominal spring constant of 0.12 N mand resonance frequency of 20 kHz Veeco Santa Barbara Calif. United States of America were used to acquire height topography images at a scan rate of 0.5 Hz.

Nitric oxide release profiles of the N diazeniumdiolate modified silica nanoparticles were measured in deoxygenated phosphate buffered saline PBS 0.01 M 37 C. at a pH 3.3 4.3 5.3 6.0 7.4 and 9.5 using a Sievers NOA 280i chemiluminescence nitric oxide analyzer Boulder Colo. United States of America . Nitric oxide released from the silica was transported to the analyzer by a stream of N 200 mL min passed through the reaction cell. The instrument was calibrated with air 0 ppm NO passed through a zero filter and 24.1 ppm of NO standard gas balance N purchased from AGA Gas .

The surface area and pore volume of the silica were determined via nitrogen adsorption desorption isotherms see Huh S. et al. 15 4247 4256 2003 collected with a Beckman Coulter SA3100 Surface Area and Pore Size Analyzer Fullerton Calif. United States of America . The surface area and pore volume were calculated using the Brunauer Emmett Teller BET and Barrett Joyner Halenda BJH methods. Prior to the measurements all silica samples were degassed at 200 C. for 3 h.

The size of silica nanoparticles was tunable by varying the type and concentration of aminoalkoxysilane used. Contact mode atomic force microscope AFM images of silica spheres having different silane compositions are shown in . The diameter of control TEOS only silica particles was 250 20 nm. Altering the TEOS solution to include 10 mol AHAP3 decreased the diameter of the particles to 20 2 nm. Silica particles prepared from AEAP3 and TEOS were roughly twice as large d 500 45 nm than controls. As the mol of AEAP3 was increased from 10 to 17 mol balance TEOS the diameter of the particle decreased to 92 16 nm revealing a pseudo linear relationship between silica size and aminoalkoxysilane concentration . Similar trends in size were observed for each aminoalkoxysilane system studied. The size of the particles was not altered after N diazeniumdiolate synthesis indicating that the structural integrity of the silica particles was not compromised by the conditions necessary to form the NO donor and introduce NO release capability.

As shown in solid state Si nuclear magnetic resonance NMR was used to confirm the incorporation of aminoalkoxy functionalities within the silica network and to determine the surface coverage SC of such ligands. Cross polarization and magic angle spinning CP MAS techniques were employed to increase the signal resolution and sensitivity. Control and amine functionalized silica particles prepared from 0 to 17 mol AEAP3 balance TEOS were analyzed. For TEOS control silica three distinct peaks in the Si NMR spectrum were observed at 90 101 and 109 ppm respectively representative of Q geminal silanol OSi OH Q single silanol OSi OH and Q siloxane OSi silicons. See Huh S. et al. 15 4247 4256 2003 and Albert K. and Bayer E. J. 544 345 370 1991 . For the aminoalkoxysilane modified silica particles five peaks were observed in the spectra indicating three additional silicon chemical environments graphs b d in . The peaks at chemical shifts of approximately 52 and 65 ppm are representative of silicon connected to T OSi OH R and T OSiR structures respectively where R is an aminoethylaminopropyl group . See Huh S. et al. 15 4247 4256 2003 and Albert K and Bayer E. J. 544 345 370 1991 . The presence of Tbands suggests the existence of covalent linkages between aminoalkoxy groups and the silica backbone. The resonance lines representing Q Q and Qwere also assigned in the expected positions. As the AEAP3 content was increased from 10 to 17 mol the surface coverage of aminoalkoxy ligands SC T T T T Q Q See Huh S. et al. 15 4247 4256 2003 and Radu D. R. et al. 126 1640 1641 2004 . Increased from 21 to 37 correspondingly. See . Of note the quantitative analysis of these structures is complicated because the intensity of each peak depends on the efficiency of cross polarization and the proton relaxation time. See Bruch M. D. and Fatunmbi H. O. 1021 61 70 2003 .

The surface area and pore volume of the silica nanoparticles were evaluated via nitrogen adsorption desorption isotherms as described previously. See Huh S. et al. 15 4247 4256 2003 . As expected the amine functionalized silica proved to be nonporous with surface areas S of 10 20 m gand pore volumes V of 0.02 0.06 mL g at p p 0.98 .

NO release characteristics including the total amount of NO t NO half life of NO release t maximum flux of NO release NO and time necessary t to reach NO were evaluated as a function of aminoalkoxysilane structure and amount. The results are summarized in Table 4 below.

The NO release was measured in phosphate buffered saline PBS solution at physiological temperature 37 C. and pH 7.4 using a chemiluminescence nitric oxide analyzer. See Beckman J. S. and Conger K. A. 7 35 39 1995 . The NO release profiles of two representative silica nanoparticles 10 and 17 mol of AHAP3 and AEAP3 respectively balance TEOS are compared in . Notably the NO payload and release rates were significantly affected by both the concentration and chemical structure of the amine ligands used to prepare the silica nanoparticles. Of the four aminoalkoxysilane systems studied e.g. AEAP3 AHAP3 AEMP3 and DET3 AEAP3 silica released the largest overall amount of NO. Increasing the mol of AEAP3 from 10 to 17 mol led to a corresponding increase in both t NO and NO 145 to 600 nmol mg and 14 to 140 ppb mg respectively . However both the tand tdecreased with increasing aminoalkoxysilane concentration 12 to 3.4 h and 8.0 to 2.1 h for 10 to 17 mol AEAP3 respectively . Significant levels of NO continued to be released for up to 30 h albeit at a lesser rate for both 10 and 17 mol AEAP3.

One possibility is that such NO release behavior can be attributed to the size of the particle. The diameter and surface areas of calculated for some of the presently described particles are shown below in Table 5. As the diameter of the particle decreases for a given aminoalkoxysilane by increasing the aminoalkoxysilane concentration a smaller water diffusion distance to interior NO donor ligands is expected. As such the NO release becomes more rapid since N diazeniumdiolate decomposition to NO is a function of water uptake. Notably the NO release properties of these silica particles deviates from those of small molecule N diazeniumdiolates and NO releasing silica prepared by surface grafting. Indeed tof the AHAP3 silica was found to be 0.85 h longer than tof 0.05 and 0.72 h for analogues small molecule DMHD NO and the surface grafted silica NO donors prepared with N 6 aminohexyl 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane see Zhang H. et al. 125 5015 5024 2003 respectively prepared using similar amine precursors i.e. aminohexylamino ligands Likewise tof the AEAP3 based silica particles prepared via a one pot synthesis was 3.4 12 h while tof the surface grafted AEAP3 silica designated 2N 2 in Zhanq H. et al. was reported as 2.4 h. See Zhang H. et al. 125 5015 5024 2003 .

The effect of pH on the NO release kinetics from the silica scaffolds was also evaluated as shown in . Consistent with the behavior of small molecule N diazeniumdiolates see Davies K. M. et al. 123 5473 5481 2001 NO release was accelerated under acidic conditions pH 3.3 . Conversely NO release was slowed considerably at elevated pH 9.5 consequently demonstrating a simple method for storing and transporting NO donor nanoparticles without significant deterioration of the N diazeniumdiolate. The t NO was similar at all pH values but the NO release kinetics were dramatically increased at lower pH. A nine fold increase in the maximum flux of NO released NOim was observed at pH 3.3 compared to that at pH 7.4. Such behavior combined with the pH dependent dissociation of N diazeniumdiolates seems to confirm that the dominant mechanism of NO release for the silica scaffolds is proton initiated.

Cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide CTAB was used as a template in the synthesis of mesoporous AEAP3 silica. The mesoporous silica was prepared as described above in Example 10 using 10 mol AEAP3 Additionally the AEAP3 TEOS silane solution contained 0.01 M of CTAB. Following condensation of the silane mixture the particles were treated with 1M HCl in EtOH at 75 C. for 24 h to remove the CTAB. A schematic representation showing a proposed cross sectional view of a mesoporous NO releasing silica particle Is shown in .

The particles were analyzed using atomic force microscopy as described in Example 11. See . Nitric oxide release was also measured as described in Example 11. The nitric oxide release ppb versus time hr for 3 mg of the mesoporous particles in PBS at 37 C. is shown in .

Although the NO release levels of the silica nanoparticles prepared from the co condensation of NO donor precursors which can also be referred to as a post synthesis charging or simply post charging were significantly greater than small molecule diazeniumdiolates the aminoalkoxysilane content used to prepare the nanoparticles was limited to 

To increase the concentration of aminoalkoxysilanes and thus the NO donor content of the particles an additional strategy for synthesizing the silica nanoparticles of the presently disclosed subject matter involves the co condensation of silanes containing diazeniumdiolates. Thus in contrast to the method described in the Example 10 where the silica nanoparticles were first synthesized and then pressurized charged with the NO gas necessary to form diazeniumdiolate NO donors which can also be referred to as a post synthesis charging or simply post charging the diazeniumdiolates can also be formed prior to co condensation of the silica nanocomposites i.e. pre charging . See .

Briefly an aminoalkoxysilane solution was prepared by dissolving an appropriate amount of aminoalkoxysilane in a mixture of EtOH MeOH and NaOMe. The stirring solution was charged with NO 5 atm 3 d to form diazeniumdiolate modified aminoalkoxysilanes. Silane solutions were then prepared by mixing TEOS with different ratios 10 75 mol balance TEOS of diazeniumdiolate modified aminoalkoxysilane. The silane solution was added into an EtOH solvent in the presence of an ammonia catalyst. The resulting white precipitate was collected by centrifugation washed with EtOH dried under ambient conditions and stored in a sealed container at 20 C. until use. The results suggest that the pre charging strategy reduces aggregation because the aminoalkoxysilanes are first converted to diazeniumdiolates thereby avoiding interaction of amine sites during particle formation. As such the approach can be used to facilitate greater access of NaOMe and NO to the amine precursors resulting in high yields of NO per mol of aminoalkoxysilane precursor.

The NO release properties of diazeniumdiolate modified silica nanoparticles prepared via the pre charging approach described in Example 15 are summarized below in Table 6. Notably both the total NO released t NO and the maximum amount of NO released NO were increased considerably compared to NO releasing silica prepared by the post charging method at identical aminoalkoxysilane concentrations See Table 4 . For example t NO and NO for 17 mol AEAP3 were increased from 600 to 800 nmol mg and 140 to 1200 ppb mg respectively. Without being bound to any particular theory the elevated quantities of NO release could be the result of a more homogeneous distribution of the diazeniumdiolate NO donors throughout the silica particle as shown in . More importantly the pre charging approach allows for an increase in the aminoalkoxysilane content up to 45 mol without aggregation resulting in concomitant increases in t NO and NO .

Methylaminopropyl trimethoxysilane MAP3 an aminoalkoxysilane containing a methyl terminated secondary amine was also used to prepare NO releasing silica particles. By removing primary amines and the potential for hydrogen bonding interactions particles with MAP3 aminoalkoxysilane concentrations up to 75 mol and sizes ranging from 80 400 nm can be synthesized depending on the solvent employed during synthesis. Additionally increasing the mol of MAP3 from 10 to 75 mol led to a corresponding increase in the NO release characteristics e.g. t NO increased from 1600 to 10200 nmol mg . In addition the NO release of MAP3 based silica particles was characterized by a greater initial NO release burst and shorter overall NO release half life 33000 177000 ppb mg and 5 min respectively .

To evaluate the tumoricidal potential of NO donor silica nanoparticles the cytotoxicity of control and NO releasing silica particles on immortalized normal T29 and cancer A2780 and OVCAR 3 human ovarian epithelial cells was tested. MTT cell viability assays were performed as described below. The 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazoliumbromide MTT proliferation assay was employed to determine the relative sensitivities of OVCAR 3 cells to PYRRO NO. Cells were seeded in 6 replicates at 1 5 10cells well in 96 well microtiter plates incubated overnight and exposed to concentrations of NO donor and control pyrrolidine solutions for 48 h. The NO releasing medium was then removed and replaced by MTT solution upon which the cells were incubated for an additional 4 h at 37 C. Following removal of the MTT DMSO was added and the absorption of the solution was measured at 560 nm using a microplate reader.

As shown in A2780 ovarian epithelial tumor cells were treated with varying doses of control and NO releasing AHAP3 silica 0.013 1.0 mg mL for 48 h. The viability of the A2780 cells was reduced upon exposure to NO releasing AHAP3 silica at low doses and the proliferation of A2780 cells was almost completely inhibited by NO releasing AHAP3 silica at a dose of 0.50 mg mL minimum inhibitory concentration MIC at 

Control silica nanoparticles also exhibited cytotoxic effects against the tumor cells IC 0.12 mg mL albeit less than that of their NO releasing counterparts. Without being bound to any particular theory the undesirable cytotoxicity of control vehicles could be the result of free primary amines on the surface of the silica structures as such groups have known cytotoxic properties. See Shi X. et al. 272 139 150 2006 . To reduce the cytotoxicity of control and NO releasing nanoparticles with primary amines the MAP3 aminosilane containing only secondary amines was employed to create more biocompatible vehicles. As expected the cytotoxicity of MAP3 controls against the immortalized T29 and tumor A2780 cells was low whereas NO releasing MAP3 silica exhibited cytotoxicity against both T29 and A2780 cells. See . OVCAR 3 ovarian adenocarcinoma cells also showed similar cytotoxic trends with increasing concentrations of NO releasing silica nanoparticles.

To investigate whether nanoparticle size affects cytotoxicity two silica nanoparticles 75 mol MAP3 balance TEOS of different particle size 80 and 350 nm in diameter hereafter referred to as s MAP3 and L MAP3 respectively were synthesized. Silica diameter is easily tunable by varying the solvent system e.g. alcohol during the sol gel process. See Harris M. T. et al. 121 397 403 1990 . Increasing the molecular weight MW of the alcohol used during synthesis led to a corresponding increase in the particle size e.g. 100 v v ethanol and 50 50 v v ethanol butanol mixture were used to prepare s MAP3 and L MAP3 respectively . Cell viability was determined by incubating T29 and A2780 with non NO releasing control MAP3 particle 80 nm s MAP3 or L MAP3 0.4 mg mL for 48 h. See . Notably the small diameter NO releasing silica s MAP3 proved cytotoxic against both immortalized T29 and cancer A2780 cells 12 1.1 and 5 0.2 survival respectively . In contrast the larger NO releasing silica L MAP3 was significantly more cytotoxic towards the tumor cells than healthy cells 37 2.0 versus 6 1.2 survival for T29 and A2780 respectively . The reduced toxicity of the larger NO delivery vehicles against T29 cells represents a major step toward the development of nanodevices capable of releasing tumoricidal concentrations of NO with minimal effect on healthy cells.

The cellular uptake of NO releasing silica particles was studied using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Briefly A2780 ovarian cancer cells were plated to 20 confluency on MET TEC glass bottom microscopy plates and incubated overnight. Prior to imaging the Incubation buffer was discarded and replaced with Krebs Henseleit imaging buffer 10 mM N 2 hydroxyethylpiperazine N 2 ethanesulfonic acid HEPES pH 7.4 containing 100 nM tetramethylrhodamine dye TMRM to selectively stain the mitochondria of the A2780 cancer cells 30 min incubation . The NO releasing silica nanoparticles were fluorescently labeled via the co condensation of three silane precursors fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC modified aminopropyl trimethoxysilane APTMS diazeniumdiolated MAP3 and TEOS.

A Zeiss Laser Scanning Microscope LSM 510 Carl Zeiss Inc. Oberkochen Germany was used to perform the fluorescence measurements. The red fluorescence of TMRM helium neon laser excitation at 543 nm was monitored at 5 min and at 60 min to provide a map of the intracellular location of mitochondria and an outline of A2780 nuclei. See . A 100 L aliquot of FITC Iabeled NO releasing MAP3 silica nanoparticles dissolved in the imaging buffer was added directly to the cells on the stage of the microscope yielding a nanoparticle concentration of 0.1 mg mL. Immediately the green fluorescence of the FITC labeled silica nanoparticles argon laser excitation at 488 nm was observed at 520 nm resulting in the outline of the A2780 cancer cells. Confocal images were collected at 5 min intervals to monitor the cellular uptake of the green fluorescent nanoparticles shows the cells after 5 min incubation with the F1TC labeled MAPS silica particles. After 1 h substantial intracellular accumulation of nanoparticles was observed. See . Additionally the red fluorescence characteristic of mitochondria viability was absent in a number of cells after 60 min see and the cells appeared to be shrinking in size indicating cell death.

To more quantitatively evaluate antimicrobial activity of NO releasing silica nanoparticles the concentration of bacteria was adjusted to 103 CPU mL by serial dilutions in PBS and cultures were exposed either to control non NO releasing silica nanoparticles NO releasing silica nanoparticles or sterile PBS blank . After incubation for 1 h at 37 C. 100 pL of each suspension was plated onto tryptic soy agar nutrient plates and were incubated overnight. As shown in NO release from silica nanoparticles resulted in a drastic reduction in the number of viable bacteria cells. At a concentration of 2 mg mL NO releasing nanoparticles had a significant increase in bactericidal activity over controls p 9.5 10 . The quantity of NO released during the 1 h incubation period was approximately 1 mol of NO as determined via chemiluminescence. The silica nanoparticles presented herein thus exhibit in vitro bactericidal activity and represent a vehicle for delivering concentrations of NO for killing microorganisms relevant to infected wounds.

Magnetic NO releasing silica nanoparticles were prepared according to the synthesis shown in . In short the method of Example 10 was adapted by the inclusion of magnetite Fe0 particles having diameters of between about 20 nm and 30 nm in a solution containing TEOS and either 10 mol AHAP3 or 17 mol AEAP3. Upon co condensation of the silanes the magnetitie particles were covered with a shell of silica. The particles were then subjected to NO to form diazeniumdiolates.

Atomic force microscopy AFM images of the magnetite silica AHAP3 particles are shown in . The diameter of the particles was measured as 85 11 nm. The NO release profiles of the particles are shown in . Experiments with PBS solutions containing the magnetite silica particles indicate that the application of a magnet can control particle movement.

NO releasing silica nanoparticles were incorporated into polyurethane films prepared by adding between about 3 mg to about 18 mg of NO releasing particle to polymer precursor solutions containing 10 mg of 1 1 w w TECOFLEX polyurethane TPU hydrophilic polyurethane HPU in 500 1.1.L of THE and ethanol prior to polymerization.

The film prepared by adding 6 mg of nanoparticle to the polymer precursor solution was tested to determine its ability to resist bacterial adhesion as previously described. See Marxer S. M. et al. 15 4193 4199 2003 . The films were pre treated to initiate steady NO release and subsequently immersed in a cell suspension containing ATCC 19143 from American Type Culture Collection Company Manassas Va. United States of America at 37 C. for 30 min. The film surface was then rinsed with water and fixed in a 2 glutaraldehyde solution for 15 min. images of the surfaces were obtained using phase contrast microscopy using a Zeiss Axiovert 200 inverted microscope Carl Ziess Optical Chester Va. United States of America . Phase contrast optical micrographs of control films and the NO releasing particle containing film are shown in .

Glucose oxidase based glucose biosensors can detect blood glucose through the electrooxidation of hydrogen peroxide generated by the glucose oxidase GOx catalyzed reaction of glucose and oxygen. As shown schematically in a glucose sensor was prepared having a NO releasing layer Sensor provides four layers stacked upon a Pt electrode inner most layer was formed from the condensation of a solution containing 25 L MTMOS 6 mg of glucose oxidase GOx 100 L EtOH and 50 L HO. Covering GOx layer is a protective layer prepared from the polymerization of a 1 1 w w mixture of hydrophobic TECOFLEX polyurethane TPU and hydrophilic polyurethane HPU precursors i.e a TPU HPU blend . NO releasing layer was prepared from the polymerization of a solution containing 10 mg TPU HPU and 6 mg of diazeniumdiolate modified silica nanoparticles in 500 L of THF EtOH. NO releasing layer is further surmounted with a TPU HPU barrier layer prepared from a mixture of 10 mg TPU HPU in 500 L THF Et0H.

Continuing with the inset shows the interactions at the interface of NO releasing layer and outer protecting layer wherein NO releasing silica particles having diazeniumdiolate groups release nitric oxide while glucose molecules are absorbed into NO releasing layer on their way to GOx containing layer .

To evaluate the response of glucose sensor having NO releasing layers two control electrodes were also prepared a control sensor having only a protecting layer and a GOx layer and a sensor containing all four layers only prepared with silica nanoparticles that did not contain NO donors. The sensitivity of the various sensors was evaluated in PBS 0.05 M pH 7.4 using an applied potential of 7 V vs. Ag AgCl. The sensitivity of the control two layer sensor was determined as 54.5 nA mM r 0.9980 that of the four layer sensor with non NO releasing silica nanoparticles was 61.3 nA mM r 0.9938 and that of the sensor with the NO releasing layer was 57.9 nA mM r 0.9989 . These results indicate that the NO release does not interfere with GOx based glucose sensing.

The references listed below as well as all references cited in the specification are incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they supplement explain provide a background for or teach methodology techniques and or compositions employed herein. All cited patents and publications referred to in this application are herein expressly incorporated by reference.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

