---

title: Method for processing data and electronic device therefor
abstract: A method for preventing a message from being modified or deleted by a malicious application when the message is received by an electronic device based on a service provided in the electronic device and an electronic device therefor are provided. The method includes successively loading at least two received messages in a sequence filter, and determining whether data of the at least two received messages are identical to each other. A method for operating an electronic device is not limited to the above method, and other embodiments are possible within the same or similar scope as the present disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571521&OS=09571521&RS=09571521
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09571521
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150415
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Apr. 17 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0046041 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method for processing received data in an electronic device and to an electronic device therefor.

When a message is received by an electronic device a malicious application included in the electronic device may intercept and modify or delete the message. To prevent a message from being modified or deleted by a malicious application in an electronic device some of services provided in the electronic device may not be used.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method for preventing a message from being modified or deleted by a malicious application when the message is received by an electronic device based on a service provided in the electronic device and an electronic device therefor.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method for preventing a message from being modified is provided. The method includes successively transferring at least two received messages in a sequence filter and determining whether data of the at least two received messages are identical to each other.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication interface configured to receive at least two messages and a processor configured to control to successively transfer the at least two received messages in a sequence filter and to determine whether data of the at least two received messages are identical to each other.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

As used in various embodiments of the present disclosure the expression include or may include refers to the existence of a corresponding function operation or element and does not exclude one or more additional functions operations or elements. Further as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure the terms include have and their conjugates are intended merely to denote a certain feature numeral operation element component or a combination thereof and should not be construed to initially exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other features numerals operations elements components or combinations thereof.

Further as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A B or both A and B.

As used in various embodiments of the present disclosure the expressions first second and the like may modify various elements in the present disclosure but do not limit the sequence and or importance of corresponding elements. The above expressions may also be used for the purpose of distinguishing one element from other elements.

When an element is referred to as being coupled or connected to any other element it should be understood that not only the element may be coupled or connected directly to the other element but also a third element may be interposed therebetween. Contrarily when an element is referred to as being directly coupled or directly connected to any other element it should be understood that no element is interposed therebetween.

The terms as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used merely to describe a certain embodiment and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein singular forms may include plural forms as well unless the context explicitly indicates otherwise. Further all the terms used herein including technical terms and scientific terms should be interpreted to have the same meanings as commonly understood by those skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains and should not be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless explicitly defined in various embodiments of the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may for example include at least one of a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 Audio Layer MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a head mount device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch a television TV a digital video disc DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder medical equipment e.g. a magnetic resonance angiography MRA machine a magnetic resonance imaging MRI machine a computed tomography CT scanner or an ultrasonic machine a navigation device a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment an industrial or home robot a part of furniture or building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electricity meter a gas meter or a wave meter each of which includes a communication function. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Further it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may indicate a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus may be a circuit that connects the aforementioned elements to each other and transmits communication signals e.g. control messages between the aforementioned elements.

The processor may for example receive commands from the above mentioned other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface via the bus interpret the received commands and perform calculations or data processing according to the interpreted commands.

The processor may successively transfer a received message based on a sequence filter and determine whether data of the message successively transferred to the sequence filter are identical to each other.

The processor may include a sequence filter in which a first priority and a second priority assigned to a lower priority than the first priority are occupied by the same program. The processor may assign the first priority to the top priority of the sequence filter and assign the second priority to the last priority of the sequence filter. The processor may store a message received corresponding to the first priority based on the sequence filter in a specified location in the memory. The area where the processor stores the message in the memory may be a specified area that has been secured. The processor may determine whether data of the message including first data of the message transferred to the program corresponding to the first priority and second data of the message transferred to the program corresponding to the second priority are identical to each other. The processor may determine whether the first data and the second data are identical to each other. When the program occupies a third priority satisfying a lower priority than the first priority and a higher priority than the second priority in the sequence filter the processor may determine whether third data of the message transferred to the program corresponding to the third priority and the first data are identical to each other. The processor may determine whether data of the message are identical to each other based on a request from a specific program occupying the first priority and the second priority of the sequence filter. The processor may display the result of determining whether data of the message are identical to each other on a display that is functionally connected to the electronic device. The processor may display the original copy of the message on the display.

The memory may store commands or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display and the communication interface or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel middleware an application programming interface API an application and the like. Each of the above mentioned programming modules may be implemented by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory that are used to perform operations or functions implemented in all the other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API or the application may access each element of the electronic device so as to control or manage the element.

The middleware may act as an intermediary so as to allow the API or the application to communicate with and exchange data with the kernel . Further for operation requests received from the application the middleware may control the operation requests e.g. perform scheduling or load balancing by using for example a method of prioritizing at least one application of the application in using system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like of the electronic device .

The API corresponds to an interface used by the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may for example include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for controlling files controlling windows processing images controlling characters and others.

The application may correspond to an application associated with information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or an electronic device . The application associated with information exchange may for example include a notification relay application for notifying an external electronic device of certain informing or a device management application for managing an external electronic device. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application that is additionally specified according to the attributes e.g. the type of electronic device of an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the electronic device .

The input output interface may transfer a command or data input by a user through a sensor e.g. acceleration sensor or gyro sensor or an input output unit e.g. keyboard or touch screen to for example the processor the memory the communication interface or the communication interface via the bus . The input output interface may for example provide the processor with data corresponding to a user s touch input through a touch screen. Further the input output interface may output a command or data received from for example the processor the memory or the communication interface via the bus through an output unit e.g. speaker or display . The input output interface may for example output voice data processed by the processor to a user through a speaker.

The display may display various pieces of information e.g. multimedia data or text data to a user. Further the display may be implemented as a touch screen into which a command is input when an input means touches or approaches the display.

The communication interface e.g. the communication module may establish a communication connect between the electronic device and an external device e.g. the electronic device or the server . The communication interface may for example be connected to the network via wireless or wired communication so as to communicate with an external device. The wireless communication may for example include at least one of wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC GPS and cellular communication e.g. long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telephone system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM . The wired communication may for example include at least one of universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 and plain old telephone service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the applications the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface may support a protocol e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device.

Referring to an electronic device may for example constitute all or a part of the electronic device shown in . The electronic device may include at least one processor a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input module a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

At least one processor may be included in the electronic device so as to perform predetermined functions of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may include at least one application processor AP and at least one micro controller unit MCU . According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may include at least one MCU as an application or may be functionally connected to at least one MCU. Referring to the AP and the MCU may be incorporated into one integrated circuit IC package or may be separately included in different IC packages. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one IC package may be implemented by including the MCU in the IC package of the AP. Although shows the AP or MCU as being included as an element of the processor this is merely an example and it will be apparent that the processor may serves as the AP and or the MCU.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and may process various data including multimedia data and perform calculations according to the data processing. The AP may for example be implemented as a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The MCU may be a processor configured to perform predetermined operations. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the MCU may acquire sensing information through at least one specified motion sensor e.g. a gyro sensor B a acceleration sensor E or a geomagnetic sensor K compare the acquired sensing information and determine the operational state of the specified motion sensor e.g. the gyro sensor B by making reference to a database of the electronic device . In addition although shows the elements of the sensor module as being separate from the MCU the MCU may be implemented to include at least some of the above elements of the sensor module e.g. at least one of the gyro sensor B the acceleration sensor E and the geomagnetic sensor P according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the MCU may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other elements connected to each of the AP and the MCU into a volatile memory and may process the command or data loaded into the volatile memory. Further the AP or the MCU may store data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

The communication module may transmit and receive data in communication between the electronic device and any other external device e.g. the electronic device or the server connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call a short message service SMS or an Internet service through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . Further the cellular module may distinguish between and authenticate electronic devices in a communication network using for example a SIM e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some of functions that may be provided by the AP . The cellular module may for example perform at least some of multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . Further the cellular module may for example be implemented as an SoC. Although shows the elements such as the cellular module e.g. CP the memory and the power management module as being separate from the AP the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the cellular module of the above elements according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module e.g. CP may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and any other element connected to each of the AP and the cellular module into a volatile memory and may process the command or data loaded into the volatile memory. Further the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may for example include a processor for processing data transmitted and received through the corresponding module. Although shows each of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as being a separate block at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or one IC package. For example at least some of the processors corresponding respectively to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module e.g. the CP corresponding to the cellular module and the Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module may transmit and receive data for example RF signals. Although not shown in the drawing the RF module may for example include a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting and receiving an electromagnetic wave in the free airspace in wireless communication for example a conductor or a conducting wire. Although shows the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as sharing one RF module at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit and receive an RF signal through a separate RF module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The SIM card may be a card in which a SIM is implemented and may be inserted into a slot formed in a predetermined position of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or unique subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may for example include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM or a synchronous DRAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory e.g. a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a not and NAND flash memory or a not or NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a Micro SD a Mini SD an extreme digital xD a Memory Stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or sense an operational state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or sensed information to an electric signal. The sensor module may. For example include at least one of a gesture sensor A the gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D the acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a red green blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J the geomagnetic sensor K and an ultraviolet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may for example include an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an Infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor not shown and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor included therein.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel that recognizes a touch input may for example include at least one of a capacitive touch panel a resistive touch panel an infrared touch panel and an acoustic wave touch panel. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive touch panel may be able to recognize physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented using a means identical or similar to a means for receiving a touch input from a user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may for example include a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit may be a unit that may identify data by generating an ultrasonic signal through an input tool and detecting a sonic wave through a microphone e.g. the microphone in the electronic device and may be capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device e.g. computer or server connected thereto using the communication module .

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram unit or a projector . The panel may for example be a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED . The panel may for example be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be incorporated into one module. The hologram unit may show a stereoscopic image in the air using light interference. The projector may display an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen may for example be located inside or outside of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram unit or the projector .

The interface may for example include a HDMI a USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may for example be included in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may for example include a mobile high definition link MHL interface an SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA interface.

The audio module may convert a sound and an electrical signal in a bidirectional manner that is may convert a sound to an electrical signal and vice versa. At least some elements of the audio module may for example be included in the input output interface shown in . The audio module may for example process sound information input or output through a speaker a receiver earphones or a microphone . The camera module may be a device that may take both still and moving images and may include at least one image sensor e.g. front sensor or rear sensor not shown a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. light emitting diode LED or xenon lamp not shown according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The power management module may for example include a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge. The PMIC may for example be mounted in an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. The charging methods may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an overvoltage or excess current from being induced or flowing from a charger.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. Examples of the wireless charging may include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging and electromagnetic charging and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit and a rectifier may be added for the wireless charging.

The battery gauge may for example measure the residual capacity charge in voltage current or temperature of the battery . The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may for example include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP for example a boot up state a message state or a state of charge SOC . The motor may convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. Although not shown in the drawing the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may for example process media data pursuant to a certain standard such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include one or more components and the name of a corresponding element may vary according to the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements and may exclude some of the elements or further include other additional elements. Further some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be coupled to form a single entity while performing the same functions as those of the corresponding elements before the coupling.

Reference will now be made to various embodiments of a method and apparatus for detecting whether a message received by the electronic device is modified e.g. an operation of infecting forging altering or deleting the message by a malicious application in the process of transferring the message to applications by preoccupying occupying the priorities of a sequence filter e.g. message filter that successively transfers the received message to the applications.

Referring to upon receiving a message the electronic device may successively transfer the received message to a message filter in a predetermined order. For example the message filter may be a sequence filter in which at least one application is loaded in an operational state or in a ready state into the memory according to predetermined priorities in order to transfer a certain message to at least one other application in the electronic device . In transferring a received message to another application the electronic device may normally transfer the message to an application assigned to the top priority may transfer the message transferred to the application with the top priority to an application with the next priority and may successively transfer the message in the same manner until the message is transferred to an application assigned to the last priority. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one sequence filter in which the order of specific applications is set such that a received message is successively transferred in a predetermined order based on the attributes of the message.

Referring to in transferring a certain message to another application the electronic device may successively transfer the message based on priorities assigned for a message filter. In loading applications with assigned priorities into the message filter the electronic device may invoke the applications in an order specified in the message filter load priority . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the operation of invoking an application in the message filter of the electronic device may be an operation by which the corresponding application resides at an address of the message filter e.g. specified location in the memory corresponding to the address assigned for the application by making reference to information stored in the message filter load priority included in the message filter of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may prioritize a message protection a message application app a message app and other apps and may determine the message protection to be loaded into addresses and of the message filter the message app to be loaded into address of the message filter and the message app to be loaded into address of the message filter by making reference to information stored in the message filter load priority . As described above the electronic device may allow respective applications to reside in the message filter according to priorities determined based on the message filter load priority and may transfer a message to the applications in such a manner that the message is successively transferred based on the priorities assigned for the message filter.

Referring to to transfer a received message to a target application for the message the electronic device may successively transfer the message to applications corresponding to priorities assigned for the message filter until the message is finally transferred to the target application. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a message destined for a first application and may transfer the received message to the first application according to application priorities assigned for the message filter .

The electronic device may transfer the message to the application e.g. message protection assigned to a first address based on the priorities assigned for the message filter . The electronic device may store the message received by the message protection in a specified location in the memory of the electronic device . The specified location in the memory where the message is stored through the message protection may be a memory area that has been secured. The electronic device may transfer the received message to the application assigned to a second address next to the first address in priority repeat the operation of transferring the received message to the application assigned to the address with the next priority and finally transfer the received message to the message protection assigned to an Nth address e.g. address with the lowest priority . The electronic device may compare the message received through the first address of the message filter and stored in the memory with the message received through the Nth address of the message filter . When as a result of the comparison it is determined that the message has been modified the electronic device may determine that an application e.g. malicious application which modifies a message received by the electronic device is loaded between the first address and the Nth address of the message filter . In comparing the message received through the first address and stored in the memory with the message received through the Nth address the electronic device may compare data of the messages with each other so as to determine whether the data are kept identical.

Referring to operations of the processor for implementing various embodiments of the present disclosure are shown using a block diagram. In implementing various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may include a priority determination interface a message reception interface and a message validation interface .

In the priority determination interface the processor may load at least one application into the message filter based on the message filter load priority included in the memory . At the time when at least one application is executed in the booting sequence of the electronic device and information on the executed application is loaded into the memory the electronic device may be operated to load the application into the message filter. Further when an input for resetting the message filter is detected while the electronic device is operated the processor may reset the priorities of the applications loaded into the message filter. In loading at least one application into the message filter of the electronic device the processor may load a specified application e.g. message protection application into at least two addresses of the message filter. In loading the message protection application into the message filter the processor may load the message protection application into the address corresponding to the top priority of the message filter so that the message protection application first receives a message received by the electronic device and may load the message protection application into a specified address e.g. the address corresponding to the lowest priority of the message filter so that the message protection application receives the received message at least once more after having first received the message received by the electronic device .

In the message reception interface the processor may successively transfer a message received by the electronic device to applications loaded into the message filter based on transfer priorities assigned for the message filter. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may successively transfer a message received by the electronic device according to application priorities assigned for the message filter. First the processor may transfer a message received by the electronic device to the message protection application corresponding to the top priority assigned for the message filter. Subsequently the processor may successively transfer the message received by the electronic device according to priorities assigned for the message filter and finally transfer the message received by the electronic device again to the message protection application corresponding to a specified priority of the message filter. The received message transferred by the processor in the message reception interface may be a message that is received from an external electronic device through the communication interface functionally connected to or included in the electronic device . The processor may store the message transferred to the message protection application based on the top priority in a specified location in the memory of the electronic device .

In the message validation interface the processor may make a comparison between at least two messages transferred to the message protection application through the message filter. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may compare data of the message e.g. first message or original message received by the electronic device transferred to the message protection application based on the top priority of the message filter and stored in the memory with data of the message e.g. second message transferred again to the message protection application based on the specified priority of the message filter after the first message has been transferred. In comparing the first message with the second message the processor may check whether data of the first message is identical to data of the second message. As a result of checking whether data of the first message is identical to data of the second message the processor may determine that the first message is not identical to the second message and the second message had its data modified e.g. infected or corrupted . When it is determined that the second message had its data modified the processor may output a notification which indicates that the message received by the electronic device has been modified through the display speaker e.g. in and or motor e.g. in of the electronic device .

Referring to the message filter of the electronic device may contain information on application priorities for successively transferring a message received by the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message filter of the electronic device may successively load information on applications contained in a message filter load list which is included in the memory of the electronic device into specified addresses of the message filter according to load priorities in the message filter load list. For example the electronic device may load information on the message protection application corresponding to the top priority e.g. a first priority into a specified address of the message filter . The operation of loading information on the message protection application corresponding to the top priority into the message filter may be performed in the security environment that has been set up in the electronic device . The electronic device may load information on the application corresponding to the next to the top priority e.g. a second priority into a specified address of the message filter and may load information on the message application corresponding to the next to the second priority e.g. a third priority into a specified address of the message filter . In loading information on a specific application into a specified address of the message filter the electronic device may load information on a first requested application when two or more application information load requests are made for the same address. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be requested to load information on the message application into the specified address of the message filter based on information contained in the message filter load list. In loading the information on the message application into the specified address of the message filter the electronic device may first handle a request for loading information on a malicious application which has been made before the request for loading the information on the message application is made and then load the information on the message application into a specified address next to the specified address in priority. The electronic device may load information e.g. second load information on the message protection application into a specified address based on the message filter load list. The electronic device may transfer a received message to the message protection application assigned to the top priority of the message filter. The electronic device may store the received message in the memory e.g. secured location in the memory of the electronic device e.g. the message is stored as first message data . The electronic device may transfer the message received by the electronic device to the malicious application while successively transferring the message according to the priorities assigned for the message filter and the malicious application may modify the message received by the electronic device e.g. the message is modified into second message data . When the electronic device transfers the message received by the electronic device to an application e.g. the message application capable of processing the message received by the electronic device assigned to the specified address next to the specified address of the message filter in priority the second message data into which the received message has been modified by the malicious application may be transferred to the message application . The electronic device may transfer the message e.g. the second message data received by the electronic device to the message protection application assigned to a specified address of the message filter. The electronic device may compare the first message data transferred to the message protection application with the second message data transferred again to the message protection application and as a result of the comparison may determine that the first message data has been modified into the second message data. The electronic device may determine that the infected second message data has been transferred to the message application that is specified to process the message e.g. the first message data received by the electronic device . The electronic device may display a notification which indicates that the received message e.g. the first message data has been modified through the malicious application on the display of the electronic device .

Referring to operations of the processor for implementing various embodiments of the present disclosure are shown using a block diagram. In implementing various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may include a priority determination interface a message reception interface and a message validation interface .

In the priority determination interface the processor may load at least one application into the message filter based on the message filter load priority included in the memory . At the time when at least one application is executed in the booting sequence of the electronic device and information on the executed application is loaded into the memory the electronic device may be operated to load the application into the message filter. Further when an input for resetting the message filter is detected while the electronic device is operated the processor may reset the priorities of the applications loaded into the message filter. In loading at least one application into the message filter of the electronic device the processor may load a specified application e.g. message protection application into at least two addresses of the message filter. In loading the message protection application into the message filter the processor may load the message protection application into the address corresponding to the top priority of the message filter so that the message protection application first receives a message received by the electronic device and may load the message protection application into a specified address e.g. the address corresponding to the lowest priority of the message filter so that the message protection application receives the received message at least once more after having first received the message received by the electronic device . In addition the processor may load information on the message protection application into at least one address between the address corresponding to the top priority of the message filter and the specified address e.g. address corresponding to the last priority into each of which the message protection application is loaded based on the message filter load priority included in the memory .

In the message reception interface the processor may successively transfer a message received by the electronic device to applications loaded into the message filter based on transfer priorities assigned for the message filter. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may successively transfer a message received by the electronic device according to application priorities assigned for the message filter. First the processor may transfer a message received by the electronic device to the message protection application corresponding to the top priority assigned for the message filter. Subsequently the processor may successively transfer the message received by the electronic device according to priorities assigned for the message filter and finally transfer the message received by the electronic device again to the message protection application corresponding to a specified priority of the message filter. The received message transferred by the processor in the message reception interface may be a message that is received from an external electronic device through the communication interface functionally connected to or included in the electronic device . The processor may store the message transferred to the message protection application based on the top priority in a specified location in the memory of the electronic device .

In the message validation interface the processor may make a comparison between at least two messages transferred to the message protection application through the message filter. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may detect data of the message e.g. first message or original message received by the electronic device transferred to the message protection application based on the top priority of the message filter and stored in the memory and may detect data of the message e.g. second message transferred again to the message protection application based on the specified priority of the message filter after the first message has been transferred and data of the message e.g. third message transferred again to the message protection application based on the specified priority of the message filter after the second message has been transferred. A specific application e.g. application capable of processing data of a message received by the electronic device or target application for a received message loaded into the message filter may request the processor to check whether the data of the message received by the target application has been data modified. The processor may compare the second message and or the third message with the first message thereby determining whether the message received by the target application had the target application s data modified. As a result of comparing data of the first message with data of the second message and or data of the third message the processor may determine that the first message is not identical to the second message or the first message is not identical to the third message and the second message or the third message had its data modified e.g. infected or corrupted . When it is determined that the second message or the third message had its data modified the processor may output a notification which indicates that the message received by the electronic device has been modified through the display speaker e.g. in and or motor e.g. in of the electronic device .

Referring to the message filter of the electronic device may contain information on application priorities for successively transferring a message received by the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message filter of the electronic device may successively load information on applications contained in a message filter load list which is included in the memory of the electronic device into specified addresses of the message filter according to load priorities in the message filter load list. For example the electronic device may load information on the message protection application corresponding to the top priority e.g. a first priority into the specified address of the message filter . The operation of loading information on the message protection application corresponding to the top priority into the message filter may be performed in the security environment that has been set up in the electronic device . The electronic device may load information on the application corresponding to the next to the top priority e.g. a second priority into a specified address of the message filter and likewise may load information on a malicious application corresponding to the next to the second priority e.g. a third priority into a specified address of the message filter information on the message application corresponding to a fourth priority into a specified address of the message filter information on the message protection application corresponding to a fifth priority into a specified address of the message filter and information on the message protection application corresponding to the sixth priority into a specified address of the message filter respectively. The electronic device may transfer a received message to the message protection application corresponding to a top priority of the message filter. The electronic device may store the received message in the memory e.g. secured location in the memory of the electronic device e.g. the message is stored as first message data . The electronic device may transfer the message received by the electronic device to the malicious application while successively transferring the message according to the priorities assigned for the message filter and the malicious application may modify the message received by the electronic device e.g. the message is modified into second message data . When the electronic device transfers the message received by the electronic device to an application e.g. the message application capable of processing the message received by the electronic device assigned to the specified address next to the specified address of the message filter in priority the second message data into which the received message has been modified by the malicious application may be transferred to the message application .

The electronic device may detect a request for checking whether the second message had its data modified which is made to the message protection application by the message application that has received the second message. The electronic device may compare data of the first message received by the message protection application based on the message filter with data of the message received by the message protection application following the message application based on the message filter . For example the electronic device may transfer the message e.g. the second message data received by the electronic device to the message protection application assigned to the specified address of the message filter. The electronic device may compare the first message data transferred to the message protection application with the second message data transferred again to the message protection application and as a result of the comparison may determine that the first message data has been modified into the second message data. The electronic device may determine that the infected second message data has been transferred to the message application that is specified to process the message e.g. the first message data received by the electronic device . The electronic device may determine based on the second message data received through the specified address of the message filter that the first message has been modified by any application loaded between the specified address and the specified address of the message filter where the message protection application is loaded.

The electronic device may display a notification which indicates that the received message e.g. the first message data has been modified through the malicious application on the display of the electronic device . The electronic device may increase the reliability of determining the location where the malicious application operates by determining at least one address between the specified addresses e.g. the addresses and occupied by the message protection application corresponding to two or more priorities based on the message filter and additionally loading information on the message protection application into the determined address of the message filter.

Referring to the electronic device may load information on a message protection application into a specified address corresponding to the top priority of a message filter in which priorities for transferring a message received by the electronic device are specified based on the message filter load list and may further load information on the message protection application into a specified address corresponding to the last priority of the message filter . The electronic device may load information on a messenger application into a specified address corresponding to a priority between the specified address and a specified address of the message filter . Upon receiving a message destined for the messenger application the electronic device may store a message received through the message protection application based on the priorities assigned for the message filter in a specified location in the memory and may successively transfer the message to applications corresponding to subsequent priorities. The electronic device may transfer to the messenger application a message that has been modified by a malicious application loaded into a specified address corresponding to a higher priority than the messenger application based on the message filter e.g. message into which the message has been modified . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may display authentication code ZB modified by the malicious application on the display based on the modified message. The electronic device may detect a request from the messenger application to check whether there is any modification in information on the message displayed on the display . The electronic device may the modified authentication code ZB received by the messenger application with authentication code XZ contained in the received message and as a result of the comparison may determine that the authentication codes are not identical to each other. The electronic device may display a notification which indicates that the received message has been modified on the display where the operation of the messenger application is displayed.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may load a message security interface e.g. message protection application into at least two specified addresses e.g. first and second addresses of the message filter so as to successively transfer a received message in a predefined order. The message protection application of the electronic device may be an application which is loaded into at least two addresses of the message filter and thus to which a message received by the electronic device is transferred at least twice and which compares data of at least two transferred messages with each other thereby determining whether the message received by the electronic device has been modified. Information on at least one application with a lower priority than the application loaded into first address and a higher priority than the application loaded into the second address may be loaded between the first address and the second address of the message filter of the electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may successively transfer a message received by the electronic device based on message transfer priorities assigned for the message filter. The electronic device may transfer the received message e.g. first message data to the message protection application assigned to the first address corresponding to a first priority of the message transfer priorities may transfer the message to the target application for the message received by the electronic device corresponding to the next to the first priority and may transfer the message e.g. second message data to the message protection application corresponding to the second address by making reference to the priorities assigned for the message filter.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the received message has been modified in the process of successively transferring the message to the applications according to the priorities assigned for the message filter. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the message protection application receives the message e.g. first message data through the address where the message protection application is loaded the last time based on the message filter or when the target application for the message receives the corresponding message e.g. second message data and the electronic device receives from the target application a request for checking whether the message has been modified the electronic device may compare the message e.g. third message data stored in a specified location in the memory with the first or second message data thereby determining whether the third message data is identical to the first or second message data or has been modified.

In operation when as a result of the comparison in operation the electronic device determines that the first message data or the second message data is not identical to the third message data a notification indicating that the received first or second message has been modified may be output through the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure while the display displays the message through the target application that processes the received message the electronic device may display a notification message which indicates that the displayed message had its data modified on a part of the display and may output a predetermined notification message through the speaker or motor of the electronic device . In addition the electronic device may display the original message e.g. first message received by the electronic device on a part of the display that is displaying the message through the target application.

Upon completing operation the electronic device may end the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in .

Various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above may be implemented by at least one of one or more programs included in the memory of the electronic device one or more processors e.g. the processor and modules that perform operations corresponding to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some of the devices or methods according to various embodiment of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and or disclosed herein may be implemented in the form of hardware software firmware or any combination e.g. module or unit of at least two of hardware software and firmware. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof and may also be the smallest unit that performs various embodiments of the present disclosure or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. If implemented in software a computer readable storage medium or storage medium readable by a computer storing at least one program or programming module may be provided. The software may for example be implemented by instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium in the form of a programming module. The at least one program may include instructions that cause the electronic device to perform the methods according to various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and or disclosed herein. The instructions when executed by at least one processor e.g. the processor enables the at least one processor to perform functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage medium may for example be the memory . At least a part of the programming module may for example be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming module may for example include a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing at least one function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a computer readable storage medium storing a program that performs the operations of successively transferring a received message based on a sequence filter and determining whether data of the message successively transferred to the sequence filter are identical to each other.

The computer readable storage medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disc a floppy disc and a magnetic tape optical media such as a compact disc ROM CD ROM and a DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk a hardware device specifically configured to store and execute program instructions e.g. programming module such as a ROM a RAM and a flash memory an EEPROM a magnetic disc storage device any other type of optical storage device and a magnetic cassette. Alternatively any combination of some or all of the may form a memory in which the program is stored. Further a plurality of such memories may be included in the electronic device.

In addition the program may be stored in an attachable storage device capable of accessing the electronic device through a communication network such as the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a wide LAN WLAN a storage area network SAN or any combination thereof. Such a storage device may access the electronic device via an external port. Further a separate storage device on the communication network may access a portable electronic device. Any of the hardware devices as described above may be configured to work as one or more software modules in order to perform the operations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

Any of the modules or programming modules according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements exclude some of the elements or further include other additional elements. The operations performed by the modules programming module or other elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed in a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed in a different order some of the operations may be omitted or other operations may be added.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

