---

title: Composition, synthesis, and use of a new class of isonitriles
abstract: This invention relates to novel isonitriles, including arylthio isonitriles, and methods for their preparation. The isonitriles include a conjugated ring system. The structure is designed with the flexibility to have multiple substitution patterns. The isonitriles may be used in applications including, but not limited to, pharmaceutical compositions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09481645&OS=09481645&RS=09481645
owner: Duquesne University of the Holy Ghost
number: 09481645
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150220
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 942 843 filed Feb. 21 2014 entitled Composition Synthesis and Use of a New Class of Isonitriles which is herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under grant no. AI051352 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to arylthio isonitrile compounds and their synthesis. The invention also relates to new arylthio isonitriles as intermediates for synthesizing isonitriles and nitriles.

Isonitrile compounds and derivatives thereof are known in the art and can be used in various applications including the fields of medicine and pharmaceuticals. For example bioactive isonitrile containing metabolites may be isolated and used to treat widespread infections and deaths caused by malaria. The spread of resistant strains and the rise in global temperatures has made the treatment of malaria one of the highest priorities of the World Health Organization for the third world and North America.

Various methods for synthesizing isonitrile compounds are also known in the art. For example it is known that isonitriles can be synthesized by the reaction of primary amines with dichlorocarbene or by dehydration of a formamide with phosphorus oxychloride. The Hofmann synthesis is a chemical test for primary amines based on their reaction with potassium hydroxide and chloroform as dichlorocarbene precursors to isonitriles. Another route to producing isonitriles is by reaction of organolithium compounds with oxazoles and benzoxazoles. A further synthetic route toward isonitriles includes condensation of an amine with formic acid to yield a formamide and subsequent dehydration of this formamide. Phosgene can be used in combination with the formamide to yield isonitriles.

Isonitriles are used as reactants in multi component Ugi and Passerini condensations heterocycle synthesis in radical and Pauson Khand reactions and as ligands and in medical imaging.

There are disadvantages associated with the known methods of synthesizing isonitriles. The deprotonation alkylation syntheses are limited to special substrates and conjugate additions with alkylisonitriles are rare extremely challenging and require additional activation through further conjugation. There are little or no known methodologies that provide direct rapid access to bioactive isonitrile containing carbocycles. Multi step sequences are often required. For example the synthesis of an anti fouling isonitrile may require as many as ten steps to convert a ketone into an isonitrile.

The commercial availability of isonitriles is limited and those that are commercially available can be expensive.

Thus there is a need in the art to develop new connectivity methods as well as isonitriles having new structural diversity and fundamental reactivity patterns in alkylations and conjugate additions. Furthermore it would be advantageous for the new methodologies of preparing isonitriles to include a minimum number of steps which are cost effective to perform and that result in high yields.

The invention relates in general to novel isonitrile compounds and in particular to novel arylthio isonitrile compounds. Further the invention includes synthesis of the novel arylthio isonitrile compounds and their use as precursors or building blocks for preparing other isonitrile compounds.

wherein X is selected from oxygen sulfur and nitrogen Ris selected from alkyl and aryl Ris selected from hydrogen and XR Ris selected from hydrogen and XR and Ris selected from alkyl and cyclic or polycyclic aromatic or non aromatic structure e.g. one or more rings such as but not limited to a cyclic six membered ring. In certain embodiments Ris selected from C Calkyl and aryl or Ris selected from C Calkyl and aryl. Further in certain embodiments Rand Rcan come together to form a benzo ring.

In certain embodiments the compound of the invention is represented by a general structure of Formula II 

In certain other embodiments the invention provides a compound represented by a general structure of Formula III 

In certain other embodiments the invention provides a compound represented by a general structure of Formula IV 

In another aspect the invention provides a method of preparing an isonitrile including reacting a compound represented by a general structure of Formula III 

wherein X R Rand Rare as defined for Formula I with an electrophile in an exchange reaction to replace the arylthio group to form a compound represented by a general structure of Formula V or Formula VI 

The electrophile may be selected from alkyl halides acyl halides carbonyl compounds and mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments the electrophile is selected from diphenyl disulfide methyl iodide propyl bromide propylene oxide cyclohexanone propyl iodide cyclohexenone and mixtures thereof.

The invention relates in general to novel isonitrile compounds and in particular to new arylthio isonitriles that may be synthesized from readily available materials. The structures of the arylthio isonitriles are designed with the flexibility to have multiple substitution patterns.

Other than the operating examples or where otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients processing conditions and the like used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the disclosure are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical values however may contain certain errors such as for example equipment and or operator error necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements.

Also it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is intended to include all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of 1 to 10 is intended to include all sub ranges between and including the recited minimum value of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10 that is having a minimum value equal to or greater than 1 and a maximum value of less than or equal to 10.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between the incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

The present disclosure describes several different features and aspects of the invention with reference to various exemplary non limiting embodiments. It is understood however that the invention embraces numerous alternative embodiments which may be accomplished by combining any of the different features aspects and embodiments described herein in any combination that one of ordinary skill in the art would find useful.

The invention relates to the development of a new arylthio isonitriles represented by a general structure of Formula I 

wherein X is oxygen O sulfur S or nitrogen N Ris alkyl or aryl Ris hydrogen H or XR Ris hydrogen H or XR and Ris alkyl or a cyclic or polycyclic aromatic or non aromatic structure e.g. one or more rings such as but not limited to a cyclic six membered ring. In certain embodiments Ris C Calkyl or aryl and in certain other embodiments Ris C Calkyl or aryl. Further in certain embodiments Rand Rcan come together to form a benzo ring.

In certain embodiments the compound of the invention is represented by a general structure of Formula II 

In certain other embodiments the compound of the invention is represented by a general structure of Formula III 

In certain other embodiments the compound of the invention is represented by a general structure of Formula IV 

The compounds of the invention may be readily synthesized using organic chemistry techniques. The syntheses of various embodiments of the isonitrile precursors and products are described herein. It should be noted that the featured embodiments are intended to be exemplary and are in no way limiting to the scope of the isonitrile precursors and products as described herein. For example the compounds of Formulas I and II can be prepared according to certain embodiments of the invention. In general condensation and dehydration reactions may be conducted to form the compounds of Formulas I and II. These compounds then may be used as precursors or building blocks to form other arythio isonitriles. In certain embodiments compounds represented by Formula I and Formula II can be subjected to double alkylation reactions to form the arylthio isonitrile represented by Formula III. The compounds of Formulas III and IV then may be used as precursors or building blocks to form other isonitrile compounds. For example compounds represented by Formula III can be subjected to an exchange reaction to form the isonitriles represented by the general structures of Formulas V and VI 

Compounds represented by the general structure of Formula II herein can be prepared by known organic reactions such as Mannich condensation reactions. shows a reaction scheme for preparing arylthio isonitrile of Formula II in accordance with certain embodiments of the invention wherein X is oxygen Ris methyl and each of Rand Ris hydrogen. As shown in o methoxy thiophenol aryl thiol is reacted with formamide in formic acid and toluene to form an intermediate product wherein the hydrogen molecule of the o methoxy thiophenol is replaced with an isonitrile group. It is contemplated and understood that other aryl thiols can be reactants such as but not limited to those shown in Table 1. Further it is contemplated that other suitable acids and solvents known in the art can be used. Non limiting examples of suitable acids include but are not limited to acetic acid proprionic acid trifluoroacetic acid chloroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid camphor sulfonic acid and mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of suitable solvents include but are not limited to formaldehyde dimethyl formamide dimethylacetamide hexamethylphosphoramide dimethylsulphoxide tetrahydrofuran and mixtures thereof.

The intermediate product then undergoes a dehydration reaction to remove the water molecule such that NH CHO in the intermediate product is NC in the final isonitrile product. Various dehydration methods and processes can be used. In accordance with certain embodiments of the invention and as shown in the intermediate product is reacted with phosphorus oxychloride in diisopropylamine to form an isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane product represented by the general structure of Formula II herein . It is contemplated and understood that other isonitriles can be synthesized by a dehydration reaction such as but not limited to those shown in Table 1. Further it is contemplated that other suitable solvents and dehydrating agents known in the art can be used. Non limiting examples of suitable solvents include but are not limited to dichoromethane toluene chloroform and mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of suitable dehydrating agents include but are not limited to triphenylphosphine dichloride triphenylphosphine dibromide triphenylphosphine carbon tetrabromide sulfonyl chloride oxalyl chloride and mixtures thereof. The dehydration step can be conducted at various temperatures and is typically carried out at a temperature within a range from 30 C. to 0 C.

The resulting product may be purified by conventional purification methods and processes known in the art such as but not limited to vacuum distillation flash chromatography preparative thin layer chromatography and radial chromatography.

As shown in compounds represented by the general structure of Formula II herein may be used as precursors or building blocks to form other arylthio isonitriles. For example compounds of Formula II can be used to prepare arylthio isonitriles represented by the general structure of Formula III herein wherein X is oxygen Ris methyl and each of IV and Ris hydrogen. In particular in the isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane product as shown in undergoes an alkylation reaction to replace the CHgroup bridging the arylthio and the isonitrile to form a 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane product represented by the general structure of Formula III herein . As shown in the isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane reactant is reacted with the dihalide 1 5 dibromopentane in sodium hydride and dimethyl formamide DMF . The sodium hydride is typically present in an amount in the range from 2 to 5 equivalents. The alkylation reaction can be conducted at various temperatures and typically the temperature is in the range from 10 C. to room temperature. The time for carrying out the alkylation can also vary and typically is carried out in a time period in the range from 10 hours to 72 hours. It is contemplated and understood that other arylthio isonitriles can be synthesized by an alkylation reaction such as but not limited to those shown in Table 1. Further it is contemplated that other bases known in the art for use in organic synthesis can be used such as but not limited to sodium hydroxide potassium hexamethyldisilazide lithium amide sodium amide and mixtures thereof. Further it is contemplated that any solvent can be used that is compatible with the base e.g. sodium hydride such as but not limited to dimethylacetamide hexamethylphosphoramide dimethylsulphoxide tetrahydrofuran toluene and mixtures thereof. It is also contemplated that other dihalide compounds known in the art can be used. Non limiting examples of suitable dihalides include but are not limited to 1 3 dihalopropane 1 4 dihalobutane 1 5 dihalopentane 1 6 dihalohexane and mixtures thereof.

The resulting product may be purified by conventional purification methods and processes known in the art such as but not limited to vacuum distillation flash chromatography preparative thin layer chromatography and radial chromatography.

As shown in compounds represented by the general structure of Formula III herein may be used as precursors or building blocks to form other isonitriles. For example was shown in compounds represented by the general structure of Formula III can be reacted with an electrophile to prepare isonitriles represented by the general structure of Formula V wherein Ris methyl herein. In particular in the 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane product as shown in undergoes an exchange reaction to replace thioaryl with a methoxycarbonyl group. As shown in 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane is reacted with the electrophile methyl cyanoformate in n butyl lithium and tetrahydrofuran THF to form methyl 1 isocyanocyclohexane 1 carboxylate. It is contemplated and understood that other arylthio isonitriles may be synthesized by an exchange reaction such as but not limited to those shown in Table 1.

As shown in compounds represented by the general structure of Formula III can be reacted with an electrophile to prepare isonitriles represented by the structure of Formula VI herein. In particular in an exchange reaction includes reacting 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane with the electrophile benzyl bromide in n butyl lithium and THF to form 1 isocyanocyclohexane 1 benzyl.

For the exchange reactions it is contemplated that various other bases and solvents can be used provided that the solvent is compatible with the base. Suitable solvents include but are not limited to ethyl ether dioxane methyltetrahydrofuran hexane cyclohexane pentane and mixtures thereof. Further it is contemplated that various other suitable electrophiles may be used in the exchange reaction such as but not limited to alkyl halides acyl halides and carbonyl compounds. Non limiting examples of suitable electrophiles include but are not limited to diphenyl disulfide methyl iodide propyl bromide propylene oxide cyclohexanone propyl iodide cyclohexenone and mixtures thereof.

The exchange reaction can be conducted at various temperatures and is typically in the range from 30 C. to 78 C.

As mentioned herein Table 1 shows various e.g. suitable aryl thiols for use in the invention arylthio isonitriles synthesized by suitable formamide synthesis and dehydration methods arylthio isonitriles synthesized by suitable alkylation methods and suitable exchange reactions for arylthio isonitriles.

Moreover other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification be considered as exemplary only. Furthermore the following examples are meant to be illustrative of certain embodiments of the invention and are not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the invention.

The following examples were conducted in support of the invention. Example 1 is directed to Mannich condensation dehydration reactions for the synthesis of isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane. Example 2 is directed to double alkylation cyclization for the synthesis of 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane. Examples 3 and 4 are directed to exchange functionalization for the synthesis of methyl 1 isocyanocyclohexane 1 carboxylate and 1 isocyanocyclohexane 1 benzyl. These examples as well as Examples 5 50 are meant to be illustrative only of certain embodiments of the invention.

A 20 mL microwave Biotage vial was charged with o methoxy thiophenol 2.0 g 14.3 mmol 1 eq paraformaldehyde 2.14 g 71.3 mmol 5 eq and capped. The vial was purged with Nand then formamide 3.4 mL 85.6 mmol 6 eq formic acid 2.2 mL 57.1 mmol 4 eq and toluene 6 mL were added consecutively via syringe. The vial was irradiated for 1 hour at 80 C. the vial was vented and then 2 hours at 90 C. using a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor Radiation absorption set to NORMAL . The contents were poured on water ice 10 mL . The mixture was extracted four times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried NaSO . The solvents were removed in vacuo and then high vacuum for 2 hours to leave a white solid with sufficient purity for the next step.

A 25 mL round bottom flask containing the material of the previous reaction was dissolved with acetonitrile 11 mL and tetrahydrofuran 22 mL . The flask was cooled down to 15 to 10 C. using an ice acetone NHCl bath. Diisopropylamine 14 mL 100 mmol 9.3 eq was added drop wise followed by prompt drop wise addition of phosphorus oxychloride 3.29 mL 35.3 mmol 3.3 eq . The mixture was kept between 15 C. and 0 C. for 1 hour before the contents were poured to a NaHCO sat ice mixture 10 mL . The organic phase was separated and the aqueous was extracted twice with DCM. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried NaSO . The solvents were removed in vacuo leaving an orange oil. The crude product was purified by radial chromatography using a gradient 95 5 to 80 20 hexane ether on a 2 mm thick SiOplate obtaining 1.34 g of a colorless oil 70 yield 2 steps .

A 50 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar and a septum was flame dried. The flask was charged with an excess of sodium hydride 174 mg 4.35 mmol 3 eq capped and purged with dry N. The flask was cooled to 0 C. and charged with DMF 14.5 mL 0.1 M and 1 5 dibromopentane 0.2 mL 1.45 mmol 1 eq . Then isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 260 mg 1.45 mmol was added drop wise and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir for 18 hours at 5 C. The mixture was poured into water ice and the mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried NaSO . The solvents were removed in vacuo leaving a yellowish oil. The crude product was purified by radial chromatography separation using an eluent of 95 5 Hex ether on a 1 mm thick SiOplate obtaining 220 mg of 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane as an colorless oil 61 yield .

A 25 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar and a septum was flame dried and purged with dry N. The flask was charged 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 50 mg 0.21 mmol 1 eq and THF 6.7 mL 0.03 M . The solution was cooled to a temperature of 78 C. and n BuLi 1.0 eq was then added drop wise. The resulting mixture was stirred for about 10 minutes. Methyl cyanoformate 1.5 eq was added in one portion and stirring was continued at 78 C. for 2 hours and the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature in a 1 hour interval. The mixture was poured into water ice and the phases separated. The organic was collected and the aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate twice. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried NaSO . The solvents were removed in vacuo leaving a yellow oil. Radial chromatography separation using a 1 mm thick SiOplate and an eluent gradient of 95 5 to 90 10 Hex Ether yielded 15 mg of methyl 1 isocyanocyclohexane 1 carboxylate as a colorless oil 44 yield and the expected aryl butyl thioether.

A 25 mL Schlenk flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar and a septum was flame dried and purged with dry N. The flask was charged with 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 63 mg 0.25 mmol 1 eq and tetrahydrofuran 5.1 mL 0.05 M . The solution was cooled to a temperature of 78 C. and n BuLi 1.05 eq was added drop wise. The resulting mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at the same temperature. Benzyl bromide 52.3 mg 0.3 mmol was dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 0.3 mL and added in one portion with continued stirring allowing the temperature to increase to 65 C. in a 30 minute interval and then for an additional 1.5 hours at a temperature of 0 C. The reaction was then poured on cold half saturated NaHCO. The organic was collected and the aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate twice. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried NaSO . The solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was separated by SiOradial chromatography 1 mm thickness rotor to give 38 mg of a colorless oil 75 .

A hexane solution of BuLi 5.1 mL 7.96 mmol was added in one portion to neat veratrole 1.0 g 7.24 mmol . After 10 min tetramethylethylenediamine 11 L 0.07 mmol was added dropwise. After stirring for 30 min at room temperature elemental sulfur 232 mg 7.23 mmol was added in one portion under a nitrogen blanket. After stirring for 20 min the reaction was diluted with cold water 15 mL and was stirred at room temperature for 10 min before adding EtO 10 mL . The organic layer was discarded and the aqueous was extracted once again with EtO 10 mL . The aqueous layer was then acidified with HCl 2M until pH 1. The mixture was extracted with EtO 3 and dried NaSO . After removal of the volatiles the crude was purified by filtration on a SiOplug using hexanes EtO 95 5 to 90 10 as eluent to yield 0.7 g 57 as a colorless oil. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 6.94 6.90 m 1H 6.84 dd J 8.0 1.5 Hz 1H 6.69 dd J 8.2 1.4 Hz 1H 3.85 s 2H 3.84 s 3H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 153.11 144.65 127.13 124.50 120.93 109.60 59.88 55.89

Preparation was in accordance with 2 3 dimethoxybenzenethiol from 2 3 4 trimethoxybenzene 1.5 g 8.92 mmol . After removal of the volatiles the crude was purified by SiOcolumn chromatography using gradient hexanes EtOAc 95 5 to 90 10 to yield 1.01 g 57 as an oil. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 6.95 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.59 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 3.91 s 3H 3.87 s 3H 3.83 s 3H 3.64 s 1H . 13C NMR 101 MHz Chloroform d 152.09 150.10 143.06 123.70 117.10 108.29 61.01 60.49 56.24. IR ATR 2937 2837 2566 1584 1589 1410 1479 1224 1089 1010 793 cm.

A THF solution 5 mL of 2 bromothiophenol 3 g 14.77 mmol was added dropwise to a THF slurry 12 mL of magnesium turnings 0.467 g 19.20 mmol that had been previously activated through the addition of 1 2 dibromoethane 127 L 1.47 mmol . The flask was gently heated with a heat gun while avoiding boiling. After 30 min the flask was irradiated at room temperature in an ultrasonic cleaning bath for 2 h to provide a THF solution of the Grignard reagent. Elemental sulfur 0.663 g 20.68 mmol was added in one portion under a Nblanket to the 0 C. solution of the 2 methylthio phenyl magnesium bromide. After 30 min lithium aluminum hydride powder 0.27 g 7.39 mmol was added in very small portions. After 30 min the reaction was diluted with cold aqueous saturated NHCl 20 mL and then aqueous citric acid 2M 5 mL . The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 3 30 mL and after the removal of volatiles the resulting oil was dissolved in 100 mL of 5 NaOH. The solution was then extracted with EtO 2 25 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with HCland extracted with EtO 3 50 mL . After removal of the volatiles 1.132 g was obtained as a slightly purple translucid oil 49 . H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.30 dd J 7.7 1.5 Hz 1H 7.25 dd J 7.9 1.4 Hz 1H 7.12 ddd J 7.9 7.4 1.4 Hz 1H 7.05 td J 7.5 1.4 Hz 1H 3.99 s 1H 2.45 s 3H . C NMR 126 MHz Chloroform d 136.56 132.22 129.93 128.25 126.42 126.24 16.85.

Paraformaldehyde 4 eq formamide 7.5 eq and formic acid 5 eq were sequentially added to neat methyl sulfinate 1 eq and then the flask was immersed in a preheated oil bath 90 100 C . After 2 3 h the mixture was diluted with cold water. If the material precipitated the crude formamide was isolated by filtration otherwise the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 4 . The combined organic extract was washed once with brine dried NaSO and concentrated to provide the crude formamide. Chloroform was added prior to reconcentration in vacuo to act as a chaser in removing other volatile reagents. The material was dried for 2 h under high vacuum before performing the dehydration.

Dry diisopropylamine or dry triethylamine 9.3 equiv were sequentially added dropwise to a 20 C. THF acetonitrile solution 0.3 M 2 1 mixture of the crude formamide 1 eq . The temperature was maintained below 10 C. during the addition of both reagents. After 1 h while maintaining the temperature below 10 C. the reaction was diluted with cold aqueous NaHCOand then the phases were separated. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 4 the combined organic extract was washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated to provide the crude isonitrile. The crude isonitrile was filtered through a SiOplug 10 50 mm using hexanes EtO 90 10 to 70 30 and then purified by SiOflash chromatography or SiOradial chromatography to provide the pure isonitrile.

To a cold solution of MeNC 0.1 g 2.44 mmol a BuLi solution in hexanes 0.95 mL 2.56 mmol was added dropwise. After stirring for 1 h at the same temperature a solution of 2 2 dipyridildisulfide 0.64 g 2.92 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 3 mL was added in one portion. After 15 min reaction was diluted with cold NaHPO10 25 mL and the mixture extracted with EtOAc 3 . 0.160 g 44 were obtained as an oil after purification by DIOL column chromatography using hexanes EtO 95 5. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 8.52 ddd J 5.0 1.9 1.0 Hz 1H 7.59 td J 7.7 1.8 Hz 1H 7.23 dt J 8.0 1.0 Hz 1H 7.11 ddd J 7.4 4.9 1.1 Hz 1H 5.07 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 158.31 153.72 149.94 136.91 122.78 121.11 39.09 t J 6.8 Hz . IR ATR 2994 2141 1578 1455 1416 1120 924 757 730 cm.

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from naphthalene 2 thiol 2 g 12.48 mmol according to the general formamide synthesis method 2.5 h at 95 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 1.652 g 66 2 steps of the product as a white solid after purification by SiOradial chromatography using gradient hexanes EtOAc 90 10 to 70 30 . mp 81 81.5 C. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 8.08 s 1H 7.89 7.83 m 3H 7.60 dt J 8.6 1.3 Hz 1H 7.59 7.49 m 2H 4.62 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 159.82 133.63 133.09 132.25 129.39 129.04 128.90 127.82 d J 1.2 Hz 127.11 126.96 45.14 t J 6.4 Hz . IR ATR 3053 2977 2145 1586 1502 1423 1199 1076 916 811 732 cm.

The sulfanyl formamide 1.59 g 75 was prepared from 4 methoxybenzenethiol 1.5 g 10.70 mmol according to the general formamide synthesis method 2.5 h at 95 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 1.09 g 57 2 steps as an amber oil after purification on SiOradial chromatography 4 mm thickness rotor using hexanes acetone 95 5 . IR ATR 2940 2837 2137 1591 1493 1287 1245 1173 826 cm. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.54 d J 8.9 Hz 1H 6.92 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.41 s 2H 3.82 s 1H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 161.04 159.49 136.11 121.94 115.21 55.51 46.57 t J 6.5 Hz . IR ATR 2940 2837 2137 1591 1493 1287 1245 1173 1027 826 cm.

The sulfanyl formamide 11.71 g 83 was prepared from 2 methoxybenzenethiol 10.0 g 71.33 mmol based on the general formamide synthesis method 2 h at 90 C. . The formamide 2.0 g 10.14 mmol was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 1.62 g 89 as a semisolid after purification on SiOradial chromatography 4 mm thickness rotor using gradient hexanes ether 95 5 to 80 20 . Semisolid.

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from 2 methylthio benzenethiol 1.05 g 7.04 mmol based on the general formamide synthesis method 2.5 h at 95 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 0.52 g 67 2 steps as a slightly yellow orange solid after purification by SiOradial chromatography 4 mm thickness rotor using hexanes EtO 90 10 as eluant. mp 76 77 C. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.60 dd J 7.6 1.4 Hz 1H 7.40 td J 7.7 1.5 Hz 1H 7.23 7.14 m 2H 4.55 s 2H 2.46 s 3H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 159.39 143.58 135.75 130.48 127.91 125.49 125.25 43.31 t J 6.4 Hz 15.56. IR ATR 2981 2920 2137 1571 1431 1270 1253 1042 925 cm. See .

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from 2 phenoxybenzenethiol 1.5 g 7.42 mmol based on the general formamide synthesis method 2.5 h at 90 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 1.63 g 91 2 steps as a slightly yellow oil after purification on SiOradial chromatography 4 mm thickness rotor using hexanes EtO 90 10 as eluent. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.62 dd J 7.7 1.7 Hz 1H 7.40 7.29 m 3H 7.20 7.09 m 2H 7.04 6.97 m 2H 6.91 dd J 8.2 1.3 Hz 1H 4.60 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 159.41 156.98 156.58 134.66 130.79 130.08 124.36 124.02 122.12 119.17 118.84 43.07.

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from 2 6 dimethoxybenzenethiol 0.65 g 3.82 mmol according to the general formamide synthesis method 2.5 h at 90 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 520 mg 65 2 steps as a white solid after purification on SiOradial chromatography 2 mm thickness rotor using hexanes EtO 70 30 as eluent. mp 47 48 C. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.34 t J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.63 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.52 s 2H 3.91 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 161.21 158.29 131.55 106.02 104.47 56.47 42.87 t J 6.3 Hz . IR ATR 3004 2942 2839 2138 1579 1470 1430 1250 1100 1032 772 cm HRMS calculated for CHNOS 232.0403. found 232.0399 M Na .

The sulfanyl formamide 1.083 g 76 was prepared from 2 methoxy 6 trifluoromethyl benzenethiol 1 g 4.8 mmol according to the general formamide synthesis method 2 h at 90 C. . The crude formamide 1 g 3.36 mmol was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 874 mg 94 as a white solid after purification on SiOcolumn chromatography hexanes EtOAc 80 20 to 60 40 with 1 MeOH. mp 54 55 C. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.50 t J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.39 dd J 7.8 1.2 Hz 1H 7.17 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 4.60 s 2H 3.98 s 3H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 160.91 159.24 135.59 q J 29.6 Hz 131.31 123.26 q J 274.2 Hz 119.29 q J 5.8 Hz 117.14 114.88 56.62 42.82. IR ATR 2999 2952 2848 2140 1581 1473 1434 1315 1267 1142 1032 918 797 cm HRMS calculated for CHFNOS 270.0171. found 270.0169 M Na .

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from 2 methoxynaphthalene 1 thiol according to the general formamide synthesis 2 h at 90 C. The formamide 1.2 g 4.85 mmol was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 0.967 g 87 2 steps as a white solid after purification by SiOflash chromatography using gradient hexanes EtOAc 80 20 to 60 40 with 1 MeOH . mp 99 100 C. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 8.55 dd J 8.6 1.0 Hz 1H 7.94 d J 9.1 Hz 1H 7.80 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.58 ddd J 8.5 6.8 1.4 Hz 1H 7.40 ddd J 8.1 6.8 1.2 Hz 1H 7.32 d J 9.1 Hz 1H 4.55 s 2H 4.05 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 158.90 158.83 136.20 132.47 129.49 128.47 128.02 124.90 124.34 112.85 111.61 56.86 43.54 t J 6.3 Hz . IR ATR 2941 2481 2138 1505 1263 1246 1067 809 cm.

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from 3 4 dimethoxybenzenethiol 1.5 g 8.81 mmol based on the general formamide synthesis method 2.5 h at 95 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 0.496 g 37 as an oil after purification on SiOradial chromatography 4 mm thickness rotor using gradient hexanes EtOAc 90 10 to 70 30 . H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.21 dd J 8.3 2.1 Hz 1H 7.13 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 6.89 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 4.44 s 2H 3.92 s 3H 3.91 s 3H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 159.66 150.63 149.41 127.53 122.24 117.10 111.84 56.16 56.07 46.53 t J 6.2 Hz . IR ATR 2991 2837 2139 1578 1498 1453 1247 1220 1174 1132 1014 cm.

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from 2 3 dimethoxybenzenethiol 0.550 g 3.23 mmol based on the general formamide synthesis 3 h at 97 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 0.254 g 38 as an oil after purification on SiOradial chromatography 2 mm thickness rotor using EtO Hexanes 60 40 as eluant. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.12 7.05 m 2H 6.94 dd J 7.3 2.4 Hz 1H 4.63 s 2H 3.89 s 3H 3.88 s 3H . It was believed that the quality of the thiol contributed to the low yield. See .

The sulfanyl formamide was prepared from 2 3 4 trimethoxybenzenethiol 0.85 g 42.45 mmol based on the general formamide method 2.5 h at 95 C. . The crude formamide was dehydrated following the general method with iPrNH to provide 0.603 g 59 as a slightly yellow oil after purification on SiOradial chromatography 2 mm thickness rotor using hexanes EtO 70 30 as eluant. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.27 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.69 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 4.52 s 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.89 s 3H 3.88 s 3H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 158.81 155.57 154.16 142.89 130.02 115.85 107.78 61.41 61.03 56.11 44.31. IR ATR 2939 2839 2137 1579 1481 1406 1089 1009 798 cm. See .

The product was prepared from 2 isocyanomethyl thio pyridine 0.08 g 0.53 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 7 h 7 C. to provide 52 mg 45 as an oil after purification by DIOL column chromatography using gradient hexanes EtOAc 99 1 to 98 2 . H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 8.62 dd J 4.8 1.9 Hz 1H 7.70 td J 7.6 2.0 Hz 1H 7.64 d J 7.7 Hz 1H 7.32 7.22 m 1H 2.22 d J 13.2 Hz 2H 1.97 1.84 m 2H 1.81 1.59 m 5H 1.41 1.27 m 1H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 157.19 t J 4 Hz 153.54 150.38 137.22 129.78 123.29 68.1 t J 5.4 Hz 38.56 24.69 22.29.

Neat mono or dihalide 2 eq or 1 eq and the arylsulfanyl methyl isonitrile 1 eq were sequentially added to a cold 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 5 eq in dimethylformamide 0.15 M in regard to arylsulfanylisonitrile . After stirring at 5 C. for 24 h the mixture was diluted with a 50 50 mixture of ice and brine. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 4 the combined organic extract was washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated to afford the crude isonitrile. The crude isonitrile was filtered through a SiOplug 10 50 mm and then purified by SiOflash chromatography or SiOradial chromatography to afford the pure isonitrile.

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl naphthalen 2 yl sulfane 0.4 g 2.01 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 45 h at room temperature to provide 437 mg of 81 as an oil after purification by SiOradial chromatography 4 mm using gradient hexanes acetone 90 10 to 80 20 . IR ATR 2939 286 2121 1450 905 727 cm. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 8.18 s 1H 7.91 7.81 m 3H 7.69 dd J 8.5 1.7 Hz 1H 7.57 7.48 m 2H 1.99 d J 13.3 Hz 2H 1.81 1.65 m 4H 1.67 1.52 m 3H 1.35 1.23 m 1H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 157.20 137.41 133.81 133.52 133.16 128.67 128.28 127.79 127.46 126.71 126.23 68.06 38.18 24.75 22.28.

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 4 methoxyphenyl sulfane 0.45 g 2.79 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 29 h at room temperature to provide 457 mg 74 as a colorless oil after purification by SiOradial chromatography 4 mm using hexanes EtO 80 20 . IR ATR 2937 2860 2119 1591 1493 1246 1172 1028 828 cm. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.56 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.92 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 3.82 s 3H 2.00 1.91 m 2H 1.75 1.51 m 7H 1.36 1.24 m 1H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 161.42 156.65 138.77 119.67 114.68 67.97 t J 5.3 Hz 55.45 37.92 24.79 22.28.

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 1 g 5.58 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 32 h at room temperature to provide 987 mg 72 as a semisolid after purification by SiOradial chromatography 4 mm rotor using gradient hexanes EtO 90 10 to 70 30 with 1 MeOH . H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.67 dd J 7.5 1.8 Hz 1H 7.43 ddd J 8.4 7.5 1.8 Hz 1H 6.99 td J 7.5 1.3 Hz 1H 6.96 dd J 8.3 1.2 Hz 1H 3.87 s 3H 1.97 d J 13.1 Hz 2H 1.82 1.49 m 7H 1.35 1.21 m 1H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 161.21 156.52 139.87 132.25 121.09 116.69 111.27 68.38 t J 5.3 Hz 55.84 38.01 24.68 22.31. IR ATR 2937 2860 2120 1583 14775 1431 1273 1246 1024 752 cm. HRMS calculated for CHNOS 270.0923. found 270.0916 M Na .

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 2 methylthio phenyl sulfane 0.5 g 2.56 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 65 h at 5 C. to provide 445 mg 66 as a white solid after purification by SiOradial chromatography 4 mm rotor using hexanes EtO 90 10 as eluent. Mp 58 59 C. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.73 dd J 7.9 1.5 Hz 1H 7.44 7.38 m 1H 7.20 7.13 m 2H 2.43 s 3H 2.01 d J 13.9 Hz 1H 1.88 1.80 m 2H 1.75 1.53 m 5H 1.32 1.21 m 1H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 157.58 147.19 138.40 130.90 126.20 124.77 124.13 69.2 t J 5.3 Hz 38.09 24.65 22.40 15.57. IR ATR 2981 2920 2137 1571 1431 1042 748 cm. IR ATR 3054 2937 2860 2119 1571 1448 1431 1013 749 cm.

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 2 phenoxyphenyl sulfane 0.9 g 3.73 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 45 h at room temperature to provide 837 mg 73 as a white solid after purification by SiOradial chromatography 4 mm using hexanes acetone 90 10. mp 76 76.5 C. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.81 dd J 7.7 1.8 Hz 1H 7.41 7.32 m 3H 7.18 7.10 m 2H 7.02 6.95 m 2H 6.92 dd J 8.2 1.4 Hz 1H 2.05 dt J 13.2 3.9 Hz 2H 1.88 1.79 m 2H 1.76 1.69 m 2H 1.67 1.54 m 4H 1.35 1.24 m 1H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 159.54 157.07 156.82 140.03 132.17 129.99 123.91 123.81 119.86 119.15 118.63 68.73 t J 5.1 Hz 38.28 24.72 22.39. IR ATR 2937 2860 2120 1593. 1492 1467 1439 1233 cm.

The product was prepared from 2 isocyanomethyl sulfanyl 1 methoxy 3 trifluoromethyl benzene 0.36 g 1.46 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 30 h at 5 C. to provide 500 mg 78 as a white solid after purification by SiOradial chromatography eluent . mp 81 82 C. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.49 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.38 dd J 7.9 1.2 Hz 1H 7.15 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 3.96 s 3H 2.00 d J 12.4 Hz 2H 1.79 1.58 m 7H 1.30 1.17 m 1H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 162.22 156.92 136.47 q J 28.7 Hz 131.57 123.32 q J 274.3 Hz 119.11 q J 6.0 Hz 117.21 114.58 67.95 t J 5.3 Hz 56.08 39.10 24.56 22.59. IR ATR 2935 2862 2122 1579 1310 1272 1128 1033 796 cm. HRMS calculated for CHNOS 338.0797. found 338.0799 M Na .

The product was prepared from 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl isocyanomethyl sulfane 0.35 g 1.67 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 22 h at room temperature to provide 354 mg 76 as a colorless oil after purification by SiOradial chromatography 4 mm using gradient hexanes EtOAc 90 10 to 70 30 . H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.24 7.16 m 2H 6.88 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 3.92 s 3H 3.91 s 3H 2.04 1.87 m 2H 1.79 1.50 m 7H 1.39 1.22 m 1H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 156.83 150.92 148.88 130.32 119.80 119.53 111.20 67.98 t 5 Hz 56.12 55.96 37.87 24.74 22.23. IR ATR 2937 2860 2119 1591 1493 1246 1172 1028 828 cm.

The product was prepared from 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl isocyanomethyl sulfane 0.23 g 1.10 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 48 h at 7 C. to provide 239 mg 78 as an oil after purification by SiOradial chromatography 1 mm using gradient hexanes acetone 95 5 to 90 10 . H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.31 s 1H 7.10 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.02 dd J 8.3 1.6 Hz 1H 3.88 s 3H 3.86 s 3H 2.00 d J 13.6 Hz 2H 1.87 1.73 m 2H 1.75 1.66 m 2H 1.67 1.54 m 3H 1.34 1.22 m 1H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 156.77 153.26 151.54 130.15 124.31 123.38 114.67 68.51 t J 5.3 Hz 61.44 56.01 38.17 24.65 22.32. IR ATR 2937 2860 2120 1469 1420 1260 1231 1044 1003 781 745 cm.

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 2 3 4 trimethoxyphenyl sulfane 0.35 g 5.58 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 40 h at 5 C. to provide 315 mg 70 as a white solid after purification by SiOradial chromatography 1 mm rotor using hexanes EtO 70 30 as eluent. H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.42 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.72 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 3.93 s 3H 3.89 s 3H 3.88 s 3H 1.97 d J 13.3 Hz 2H 1.83 1.69 m 4H 1.68 1.52 m 3H 1.34 1.21 m 1H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 156.50 156.36 156.20 142.58 134.26 114.06 107.52 68.72 t J 5.1 Hz 61.80 61.05 56.08 38.06 24.72 22.39.

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 0.1 g 5.58 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 16 h at 5 C. to provide 110 mg 55 as an oil after purification by SiOradial chromatography 1 mm rotor using gradient hexanes EtO DCM 90 5 5 to 80 10 10 . H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.56 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.43 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.31 s 10H 7.00 6.93 m 2H 3.86 s 3H 3.14 d J 13.8 Hz 2H 3.02 d J 13.9 Hz 2H .

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 0.1 g 5.58 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 23 h at 7 C. . Crude H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.67 dd J 7.6 1.8 Hz 1H 7.42 ddd J 8.0 7.5 1.8 Hz 1H 7.00 td J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 6.96 dd J 8.3 1.2 Hz 1H 3.89 s 3H 2.18 2.08 m 4H 1.95 1.83 m 4H .

The product was prepared from isocyanomethyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 0.1 g 5.58 mmol according to the general alkylation procedure 16 h at 5 C. . Compound not isolated.

To a cold 78 C. solution of S methylbenzyl isocyanide 0.1 g 0.76 mmol in dry THF 7.6 mL a BuLi solution in hexanes 0.3 mL 0.8 mmol was added dropwise. After 10 min at the same temperature a solution of diphenyl disulfide 168 mg 0.76 mmol in dry THF 1 mL was added in one portion. After 10 min the reaction was diluted with cold half saturated NHCl solution 10 mL and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 . 77 mg 66 were obtained as an oil after purification on DIOL column using hexanes EtOAc 90 10 as eluent. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 8.54 ddd J 4.9 2.0 0.9 Hz 1H 7.66 7.57 m 3H 7.43 7.30 m 4H 7.20 ddd J 7.6 4.8 1.2 Hz 1H 2.18 s 3H . C NMR 125 MHz Chloroform d 159.47 154.22 150.26 138.57 137.05 128.79 128.76 128.72 125.30 123.15 69.70 32.22. IR ATR 3063 2121 1572 1448 1418 1117 1075 756 694 cm.

A cold solution 78 C. of 2 1 isocyano 1 phenylethyl thio pyridine 30 mg 0.124 mmol in THF 4 mL was treated with a MgBuLi solution 1.05 eq at the same temperature. The MgBuLi solution was prepared from dibutylmagnesium solution in helptanes 260 L 0.5 M and BuLi solution in hexanes 49 L at 78 C. After 5 min methyl cyanoformate 1.0 eq was added in one portion. The reaction was diluted after 15 min with ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The crude was purified by SiOradial chromatography 1 mm to yield the isonitrile 3 mg 13 and the thioether 6 mg 29 .

Methyl 2 isocyano 2 phenylpropanoate H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.57 7.52 m 2H 7.46 7.35 m 3H 3.79 s 3H 2.03 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz Chloroform d 168.84 160.15 136.59 131.03 129.11 124.95 77.36 54.08 28.02. IR ATR 2957 2925 2138 1748 1448 1255 1117 cm.

2 Butylthio pyridine H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 8.42 ddd J 5.0 1.9 1.0 Hz 1H 7.46 ddd J 8.1 7.3 1.9 Hz 1H 7.16 dt J 8.0 1.0 Hz 1H 6.96 ddd J 7.4 4.9 1.1 Hz 1H 3.16 dd J 7.9 6.9 Hz 2H 1.69 p J 7.3 Hz 3H 1.48 dq J 13.9 7.1 6.7 Hz 3H 0.94 t J 7.3 Hz 3H .

The magnesiate gave only a trace of exchange product small reporter signal at 3.16 ppm . BuLi appeared to have worked but the product did not correspond with that obtained using the o methoxy substrate.

A cold solution 78 C. of 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 50 mg 0.2 mmol in THF 6.7 mL was treated with a BuLi solution in hexanes 140 L 1.05 eq at the same temperature. After 10 min methyl cyanoformate 1.5 eq was added in one portion. After 2 h the reaction was diluted with ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The crude was purified by SiO2 radial chromatography 1 mm using gradient hexane Et2O 95 5 to 90 10 to yield the isonitrile 15 mg 45 and the thioether.

Methyl 1 isocyanocyclohexane 1 carboxylate 1H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 3.82 s 3H 2.00 d J 12.7 Hz 2H 1.87 1.79 m 2H 1.76 1.64 m 5H 1.34 1.21 m 1H .

Butyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 1H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 7.25 dd J 7.7 1.7 Hz 1H 7.16 ddd J 8.1 7.5 1.6 Hz 1H 6.92 td J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 6.84 dd J 8.2 1.2 Hz 1H 3.89 s 3H 2.89 dd J 7.3 7.5 Hz 2H 1.68 1.60 m 2H 1.47 dp J 8.9 7.4 Hz 2H 0.92 t J 7.4 Hz 3H .

A cold solution 78 C. of 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 63 mg 0.25 mmol in THF 5.1 mL was treated with a BuLi solution in hexanes 170 L 1.05 eq at the same temperature. After 15 min benzyl bromide 1.2 eq was added in one portion. The reaction was stirred for 30 min with a gradual increase of temperature 70 to 65 C. and then was stirred for 90 min at 0 C. The reaction was diluted with ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The crude was purified by SiO2 radial chromatography 1 mm using hexane EtOAc DCM 90 5 5 as eluent to yield the isonitrile 38 mg 75 and the thioether. 90 NMR .

 1 isocyanocyclohexyl methyl benzene H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.36 7.24 m 5H 2.85 dd J 2.0 1.9 Hz 1.81 d J 12.5 Hz 2H 1.74 1.59 m 5H 1.43 1.30 m 2H 1.22 1.05 m 1H .

A cold solution 70 C. of 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 65 mg 0.26 mmol in THF 5.3 mL was treated with a BuLi solution in hexanes 170 L 1.05 eq at the same temperature. After 15 min neat diphenyl disulfide 1.2 eq was added in one portion under a nitrogen blanket. The reaction was stirred for 30 min with a gradual increase of temperature 70 to 65 C. and then was stirred for 110 min at 0 C. The reaction was diluted with ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The crude was purified by SiOradial chromatography 1 mm using hexane EtOAc 95 5 as eluent to yield the isonitrile 36 mg 63 NMR and the thioether 95 NMR .

A cold solution 70 C. of 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 methoxyphenyl sulfane 51 mg 0.21 mmol in THF 4.1 mL was treated with a BuLi solution in hexanes 140 L 1.05 eq at the same temperature. After 15 min methyl iodide 1.2 eq was added in one portion. The reaction was stirred for 30 min with a gradual increase of temperature 70 to 65 C. and then was stirred for 110 min at 0 C. The reaction was diluted with ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The product could not be located in the crude.

A cold solution 78 C. of 1 isocyanocyclohexyl 2 3 dimethoxyphenyl sulfane 60 mg 0.22 mmol in THF 4.3 mL was treated with a BuLi solution in hexanes 140 L 1.05 eq at the same temperature. After 15 min benzyl bromide 1.2 eq was added in one portion. The reaction was stirred for 30 min at 78 C. and then was stirred for 90 min at 0 C. The reaction was diluted with ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . After filtration on a SiOplug using 70 30 hexane Et2O 80 mg of material were obtained corresponding to the isonitrile 77 and the thioether 91 .

The results demonstrated that even with the presence of an additional methoxy group the chelation effect predominates for the promotion of the exchange.

The procedure of Example 43 was conducted with the exception that the starting material included the presence of two additional methoxy groups instead of only one additional methoxy group . After addition of BuLi a white suspension was obtained. However the alkylated product was not able to be isolated.

The exchange was poor and most of the material was bibenzyl which indicated that the BuLi was still at the reaction flask and benzyl bromide metalated once was in the reaction medium. Metalated benzyl and benzyl bromide coupled condensed to yield bibenzyl. Based on the results it was contemplated that the 2 OMe function was effective to direct the organometallic reagent by chelation to promote the formation of the sulfate.

The exchange was poor. The main product was bibenzyl which was formed by metalation of benzyl bromide and self condensation. The results indicated that the 2 OMe function was effective to direct the organometallic reagent by chelation to promote the formation of the sulfidate.

Exchange took place but the isonitrile was not alkylated. The results appeared to demonstrate that the presence of a methoxy group at position 2 or 4 slowed down the exchange. However the chelation effect boosted the exchange.

The exchange was promoted only partially and it was believed due to the phenyl not providing good coordination of the organometallic reagent toward the formation of the sulfidate. There was no alkylation product since the sulfidate was not stable with the presence of the phenyl as substituent at the oxygen.

Bibenzyl was obtained as one of the major components together with the thioether and SM. It was believed that the results were indicative of sulfur partially promoting the exchange but not providing stability to the sulfidate. There is no alkylated product.

For reaction with iPrMgCl The exchange took place but it was shown that the cleavage of Ar S occurred. There was a dd at 2.5 which correlated well with the isocyanocyclohexylbutyl thioether. Without intending to be bound by any particular theory it was believed this may have resulted from the capability of the trifluoromethyl to retain charge or make a benzyne byproduct.

For reactions with iPrMgClLiCl There was no exchange after 78 and 70 min at 0 C. After 24 h there was more than one product. The exchange was not complete after 30 min 0 C. The SM was consumed after 24 h but there was no selectivity.

