---

title: Method and apparatus for displaying image
abstract: A method of operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes acquiring an image including one or more objects, detecting distances between the one or more objects and the electronic device, determining a display methods to display information related to the one or more objects based on the distances, and displaying the information related to the one or more objects based on the determined display method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621810&OS=09621810&RS=09621810
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09621810
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150225
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 25 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0022149 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

According to the development of information communication technologies and semiconductor technologies various electronic devices have been developed as multimedia devices that provide various multimedia services. For example electronic devices provide various multimedia services such as a messenger service a broadcasting service a wireless Internet service a camera service and a music reproduction service. The electronic devices include a high pixel camera module and thus can photograph still images and dynamic images and can acquire pictures or capture images to which various photography effects are applied.

When a picture is taken using an electronic device an auto focus AF function which adjusts an optimal lens focal length against an object has been recently used. Further the electronic device provides a touch auto focus TAF service by which a user adjusts focusing by directly touching an object in a preview image. In this case the electronic device informs the user of a focused object by displaying additional information such as a focusing symbol around the focused object in the preview.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

An electronic device equally displays all pieces of additional information of objects such as focusing symbols in a preview which causes a user to have difficulty in predicting the distance from each object displayed in the preview. Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an image displaying method and apparatus for displaying distances from objects by using additional information displayed in the preview.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an image displaying method and apparatus for differently displaying information related to objects according to distances from a plurality of objects.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an image displaying method and apparatus for displaying additional information of each of a plurality of objects included in an image based on a distance from each of a plurality of objects.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes acquiring an image including one or more objects detecting distances between the one or more objects and the electronic device determining a display method to display information related to the one or more objects based on the distances and displaying the information related to the one or more objects according to the determined display method.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes as image sensor and a processor configured to acquire an image including one or more objects from the image sensor detect distances from the one or more objects determine a display method to display information related to the one or more objects based on the distances and displaying the information related to the one or more objects according to the display methods.

An image displaying method and apparatus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can differently display information respectively related to one or more objects according to respective distances from the objects. An image displaying method and apparatus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can intuitively display distances from a plurality of objects. An image displaying method and apparatus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can provide various visual effects based on distance information of objects.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may include one or more among a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable media player PMP an Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG audio layer 3 MP3 player an accessory an appcessory a camera a wearable device a wrist watch a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaning machine an artificial intelligence robot a television TV a digital versatile disc DVD player an audio device an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an electronic wristlet an electronic necklace an air cleaner an electronic frame a medical device a navigation device a satellite signal receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR a set top box a TV box an electronic dictionary an automobile infotainment an electronic device for a ship an aero electronic device a security device electronic clothes an electronic key a camcorder a game console a head mounted display HMD a flat display device an electronic album a part of furniture or building structure including an electronic device an electronic board an electronic sign input device and a projector. Further it is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input unit a display unit a communication unit and an image processing module . The bus may connect the components included in the electronic device for example the processor the memory the input unit the display unit the communication unit and the image processing module and may control communication between the components.

The processor may receive commands from the components included in the electronic device through the bus analyze the received commands and perform calculations or data processing according to the analyzed commands. At this time the processor may execute one or more programs stored in the memory to control and or provide services corresponding to the one or more programs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may execute an image acquisition program a distance information detection program and a display control program to acquire a first image from an image sensor such as the image processing module detect a distance between each of a plurality of objects included in the first image and the electronic device determine a method of displaying information or additional information related to each of the objects based on the detected distance between each of the objects and the electronic device and display the information related to each of the objects together with the first image according to the determined displaying method.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may include one or more application processors APs not shown or one or more communication processors CPs not shown . For example the APs and the CPs may be included in the processor or may be included in different integrated circuit IC packages respectively. Further the APs and the CPs may be included in one IC package. The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and perform processing of various pieces of data including multimedia data and calculations. The AP may be implemented by a system on chip SoC . The CP may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions. Further the CP may distinguish between and authenticate terminals within a communication network by using a subscriber identification module SIM for example a SIM card. For example the CP may provide a user with a service including a voice call video call text message or packet data. In addition the CP may control data transmission reception of the communication unit .

The AP or the CP may load commands or data received from a non volatile memory for example the memory or at least one of other components connected to each of the AP and the CP in a volatile memory and may process the loaded commands or data. The AP or the CP may store data received from or generated by at least one of other components in a non volatile memory. The CP may manage a data link in communication between an electronic device such as the electronic device including hardware and another electronic device such as electronic devices and connected to the electronic device through a network and may perform a function of switching a communication protocol. The CP may be implemented by the SoC.

The processor may include one or more data processor image processor and codec. Furthermore the electronic device may include a separate data processor image processor or codec. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may further include a graphics processing unit GPU .

The memory may store commands or data received from or generated by one or more components for example the processor the input unit the display unit the communication unit or the image processing module included in the electronic device . The memory may store one or more programs for services of the electronic device . For example the memory may include the image acquisition program the distance information detection program and the display control program . At this time each of the programs may include a programming module and each programming module may include software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The image acquisition program may include at least one software component for acquiring a first image from an image sensor not shown which may be included in the electronic device . The first image may be displayed as a preview image or may be stored in the memory of the electronic device .

The distance information detection program may include at least one software component for detecting a distance between each of a plurality of objects included in the acquired first image and the electronic device . At this time the distance information program may identify the distance between each of the plurality of objects included in the first image and the electronic device by using a plurality of phase difference detection pixels included in the image sensor.

The display control program may include at least one software component for determining a method of displaying additional information on each of the objects based on the detected distance between each of the plurality of objects and the electronic device . At this time the display control program may determine the method of displaying the additional information on each of the objects relatively or absolutely based on the distance between each of the plurality of objects and the electronic device . For example when an object is farther from the electronic device the display control program may display additional information of the object to be gradually smaller. In another example when an object is farther from the electronic device the display control program may display additional information of the object to be gradually paler. In still another example when an object is farther from the electronic device the display control program may display additional information of the object in a simple form. The additional information may include a focusing symbol displayed when an object is touched information related to an object or all pieces of information which can be inserted into or displayed in a preview. The focusing symbol may include various forms for example and but is not limited thereto and may be any suitable and or similar symbol and or graphical representation. The display control program may display additional information of each object together with the first image according to the determined displaying method.

Further the memory may include an internal memory not shown or an external memory not shown . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM or a synchronous DRAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example a read only memory ROM a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM an electrically EPROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory. At this time the internal memory may be a solid state drive SSD type. The external memory may include at least one of a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a micro SD a mini SD an extreme digital xD and a memory stick.

Further the memory may further include a kernel middleware or application programming interface API . The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used for executing operations or functions implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or applications. Further the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware API or applications may access individual components of the electronic device to control or manage the components.

The middleware may serve to mediate between the API or applications and the kernel so that they can communicate to exchange data with each other. Further the middleware may perform load balancing for operation requests received from one or more applications by using a method of assigning priorities to the operation requests to first use system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device . The API corresponds to an interface through which applications can control functions provided from the kernel or middleware and may include at least one interface or function for performing a file control window control image processing or text control.

The input unit may transmit commands or data generated by a user s selection to the processor or the memory through the bus . For example the input unit may include a touch panel a pen sensor a key an ultrasonic input device or other pointer devices. The touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one type from among for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an ultrasonic type. In the capacitive type the touch screen panel can recognize a proximity touch as well as a direct touch. The proximity touch may be referred to as a non contact touch or hovering. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer to provide a tactile reaction to the user. The touch panel may further include a controller.

The display unit may display a picture an image or data for the user. The display may include the touch panel to simultaneously perform an input function and a display function. The touch panel may include a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED and may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The display unit may include a hologram device and the hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The display unit may further include a control circuit for controlling the touch panel or the hologram device.

The communication unit may connect communication between the electronic device and one or more of the electronic devices or or a server . The communication unit may support a short range communication protocol for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC or network communication for example Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or plain old telephone service POTS .

The image processing module may perform a camera function such as picture capture video clip recording or the like by using the image sensor. The image processing module may include a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . Further the image processing module may change a hardware configuration for example by moving a lens or controlling a number and or size of apertures according to a camera program executed by the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the image processing module may provide the processor with collected images acquired by photographing objects. The image processing module may include an image sensor for converting an optical signal to an electrical signal an image processing unit for converting an analog image signal to a digital image signal and a signal processing unit for image processing an image signal output from the image processing unit to be displayed on the display unit .

Further the image processing module may include an actuator for moving a lens and a driver IC for driving the actuator. The image processing module may move a lens through at least one of a voice coil motor type a piezo type and a liquid lens type or may control a focal length through a physical property change due to electrical characteristics.

Referring to the image sensor may include a plurality of phase difference detection pixels for detecting a distance between the electronic device and an object. For example the image sensor may include a plurality of phase difference pixels arranged on an upper surface of the image sensor at regular intervals as illustrated in or arranged in a particular area. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the phase difference pixels may include a pair of pixels having a hidden left half and a pixel having a hidden right half. However the phase difference pixels are not limited thereto and can be implemented in various forms.

Referring to when images of a plurality of objects and are input into the image sensor phase difference pixels located on an upper surface of the image sensor may measure each of distances d d and d that are respectively between each of the plurality of objects and and the electronic device . Accordingly the image sensor may distinguish among the object closest to the electronic device the next closest object and the object farthest from the electronic device .

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the image sensor may measure the distance between the object and the electronic device by using a plurality of sub areas. For example the image sensor may measure distances between the objects and the electronic device by dividing an image input into the image sensor into one or more blocks and comparing a phase difference value in a group of phase difference pixels located in one of the blocks with a phase difference value in groups of phase difference pixels located in blocks adjacent to the one of the blocks as illustrated in . In another example the image sensor may acquire relative or absolute depth map information as illustrated in based on distance information through the above described method. When it is assumed that a farthest distance from the electronic device is 10 and a closest distance to the electronic device is 0 the image sensor may divide a plurality of blocks as a block corresponding to the object closest to the electronic device a block corresponding to the object next closest to the electronic device a block corresponding to the farthest object from the electronic device and a block of the background. Values generated by comparing phase differences of the blocks may be used as depth information.

In addition the electronic device may further include a sensor module see . The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor a gyro sensor an atmospheric pressure sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a grip sensor a proximity sensor a biometric sensor a body conduction sensor a temperature sensor an illumination sensor and an ultra violet UV sensor. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. For example the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor or a fingerprint sensor.

Names of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may vary depending on a type of the electronic device . Further the electronic device may include one or more of the above described components omit some of the components or may further include additional other components according to the type of the electronic device .

Referring to the processor may include an image acquisition unit a distance information detection unit and a display control unit .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the image acquisition unit may acquire a first image from the image sensor of the image processing module . Alternatively the image acquisition unit may receive a stored image from the memory or an image from another electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the image acquisition unit may include at least one of the image acquisition program loaded in a volatile memory connected to the processor hardware for example a SoC or a logic circuit and firmware.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the distance information detection unit may detect a distance between each of a plurality of objects included in the first image and the electronic device. The distance information detection unit may identify the distance between each of the plurality of objects included in the first image and the electronic device by using a plurality of phase difference detection pixels included in the image sensor. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the distance information detection unit may include at least one of the distance information detection program loaded in a volatile memory connected to the processor hardware for example a SoC or a logic circuit and firmware.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display control unit may determine a method of displaying additional information of each of the objects based on the detected distance between each of the plurality of objects and the electronic device. The display control unit may determine the method of displaying the additional information of each of the objects relatively or absolutely based on the distance between each of the plurality of objects and the electronic device . For example when an object is farther from the electronic device the display control unit may display additional of the object to be gradually smaller. In another example when an object is farther from the electronic device the display control unit may display additional of the object to be gradually paler. In still another example when an object is farther from the electronic device the display control unit may display additional information of the object in a simple form. The additional information may be a focusing symbol displayed when an object is touched but is not limited thereto. The additional information may also include all pieces of additional information which can be inserted into or displayed in a preview. The display control unit may display additional information of each object together with the first image on the display unit according to the determined displaying method. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display control unit may include at least one of the display control program loaded in a volatile memory connected to the processor hardware for example a SoC or a logic circuit and firmware.

Although the components of the processor have been described as separate modules with reference to the components may be implemented as one module or a module of a combination thereof according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Further although the processor and the image processing module have been described as separate components with reference to the image processing module may include at least some of the components of the processor in an embodiment of the present disclosure.

An electronic device for example the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include an image sensor and a processor for acquiring an image including one or more objects from the image sensor detecting distances from the one or more objects determining methods of displaying information related to the one or more objects and displaying the information according to the displaying method.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may be configured to detect the distances based on values of phase difference detection pixels included in the image sensor.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information may include focusing symbols for focusing on the one or more objects.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may be configured to determine the display method based on a first attribute when the distance is within a first range and determine the displaying method based on a second attribute when the distance is within a second range.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first attribute and the second attribute may include at least one of a size color and transparency corresponding to the information.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may be configured to determine sizes of the information related to the one or more objects based on the distances.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may be configured to determine colors of the information related to the one or more objects based on the distances.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may be configured to display the information on the image.

Referring to an electronic device for example the electronic device may acquire an image including one or more objects for example the object or in operation . For example the electronic device may acquire an image from an image sensor for example the image processing module . The electronic device may display the image as a preview image or may store the image in a memory of the electronic device.

The electronic device may detect distances from the one or more objects included in the image in operation . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may identify the distances between the electronic device and the one or more objects included in the image by using phase difference detection pixels included in the image sensor.

The electronic device may determine methods of displaying for example a size or color additional information for example focusing symbols or object names related to the one or more objects based on the distances between the electronic device and the one or more objects in operation . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine methods of displaying information related to one or more objects relatively or absolutely based on the distances from the one or more objects. For example when the object is farther from the electronic device the electronic device may display information related to the object to be gradually smaller. In another example when the object is farther from the electronic device the electronic device may display information related to the object to be gradually more transparent or paler. The information related to the object may include a focusing symbol displayed when the object is touched.

The electronic device may display the information related to the one or more objects according to the determined displaying method in operation . For example the electronic device may display the information related to the objects together with an image on the preview according to the determined displaying method or may display the information related to the objects together with an image stored in the memory on the screen.

Referring to an electronic device for example the electronic device may acquire and display an image including one or more objects acquired from an image sensor in operation . For example the electronic device may display an image corresponding to a preview image input into the image sensor on the screen.

The electronic device may detect a distance between the electronic device and each of the one or more objects included in the displayed image in operation . For example the electronic device may identify the distances between the electronic device and the one or more objects included in the image by using a plurality of phase difference detection pixels included in the image sensor.

The electronic device may determine whether one of the one or more objects that are displayed is touched in operation . At this time the touch on the one object may be a touch for focusing on the object.

When it is determined that one of the plurality of displayed objects is touched in operation the electronic device may display a focusing symbol of the touched object according to the detected distance in operation . For example referring to when an input for a first object included in a preview image is acquired the electronic device may display a focusing symbol according to a distance between the electronic device and the first object . For example when it is determined that the first object is closer to the electronic device in comparison with other objects and the electronic device may display the focusing symbol for the first object to be largest.

Referring to when an input for a third object included in a preview image is acquired the electronic device may display a focusing symbol according to a distance between the electronic device and the third object . At this time when it is determined that the third object is farthest from the electronic device in comparison with other objects and the electronic device may display the focusing symbol for the third object to be smallest.

In still another example the electronic device may display a focusing symbol for the selected object in the preview with various colors or various forms according to the detected distance. For example the electronic device may display the focusing symbol to be gradually larger or smaller as the selected object is closer to the electronic device and may display the focusing symbol to be darker or paler when the object is closer to the electronic device. Although only the focusing symbol displayed in the preview has been described with reference to all pieces and or any type of information which can be inserted into or displayed in the preview may be applied.

Referring to the electronic device may acquire an image including one or more objects in operation . For example the electronic device may acquire an image from an image sensor or an image from another electronic device.

The electronic device may detect distances from the one or more objects included in the image in operation . For example the electronic device may identify the distances from the one or more objects included in the image through distance information stored with the image. For example the distance information may include distances between the electronic device which may be an electronic device that captured and or photographed the image and one or more objects included in an image when the image is photographed. The distance information of the image may be stored with the image when the image is photographed or in a tag or watermarking scheme.

The electronic device may display additional information of and or specified for the one or more objects according to the distances in operation . For example as shown in the electronic device may display specified additional information and according to distances between the electronic device and one or more objects and included in an image . The additional information may be include a name age nickname address phone number or symbol related to each object but is not limited thereto. The additional information may be preset text or a picture. Alternatively the additional information may include information which the electronic device receives from an external electronic device.

For example when it is determined that the first object is closest to the electronic device the electronic device may display additional information of the first object to be largest. Further when it is determined that the third object is farthest from the electronic device the electronic device may display additional information of the third object to be smallest. In such a way the electronic device may display additional information to be gradually larger or gradually smaller according to a distance between the electronic device and an object. Further the electronic device may display additional information with various colors or forms as well as various sizes.

Referring to the electronic device such as the electronic device may display an image acquired from an image sensor in operation . For example the electronic device may display an image corresponding to a preview image input into the image sensor on the screen.

The electronic device may detect distances between the electronic device and one or more objects included in the displayed image in operation . For example the electronic device may identify the distances between the electronic device and the one or more objects included in the image by using phase difference detection pixels included in the image sensor.

The electronic device may display a priority of each of a plurality of objects according to the detected distance in operation . At this time the electronic device may assign the priority in an ascending order from an object closest to the electronic device in a preview image as illustrated in . For example when it is determined that a first object is closest to the electronic device the electronic device may display the first object with a priority number 1 . When it is determined that a second object is next closest to the electronic device the electronic device may display the second object with a priority number 2 . In the same way the electronic device may display priority number 3 priority number 4 and priority number respectively of third fourth and fifth objects and . Accordingly the user of the electronic device may identify which person is closest to the electronic device through the preview image .

A method of displaying information by an electronic device for example the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include an operation for acquiring an image including one or more objects an operation for detecting distances between the electronic device and the one or more objects an operation for determining methods of displaying information for example focusing symbols related to the one or more objects based on the distances and an operation for displaying the information according to the displaying method.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for acquiring the image may include an operation for acquiring the image from an image sensor functionally connected to the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for detecting the distances may include an operation for detecting the distances based on values of phase difference detection pixels included in the image sensor.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method of displaying information by the electronic device may include an operation for acquiring depth map information based on the distances.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information may include focusing symbols for focusing on the one or more objects.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for determining the display method may include an operation for determining the display method based on a first attribute when the distance is with a first range and determining the display method based on a second attribute when the distance is with a second range.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first attribute and the second attribute may include at least one of a size color and transparency corresponding to the information.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for determining the display method may include an operation for determining sizes of the information related to the one or more objects based on the distances.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for determining the display method may include an operation for determining colors of the information related to the one or more objects based on the distances.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for determining the display method may include an operation for determining priorities of the one or more objects based on the distances.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for displaying the information may include an operation for displaying the information on the image.

Referring to an electronic device may include one or more AP a communication module a SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and perform processing of various pieces of data including multimedia data and calculations. The AP may be implemented by for example an SoC. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a GPU.

The communication module may perform data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device or for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the electronic device or the server connected to electronic device through the network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a global positioning system GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call a short message service SMS or an Internet service through a communication network for example long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communication GSM . Furthermore the cellular module may distinguish between and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network by using for example a SIM for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some functions which can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a CP not shown . Furthermore the cellular module may be implemented by for example an SoC. Although the components such as the cellular module for example a communication processor the memory and the power management module are illustrated as components separate from the AP in the AP may include at least some of the aforementioned components for example the cellular module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module for example the CP may load commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected thereto in a volatile memory and may process the loaded commands or data. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of other components in a non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as separate blocks at least some for example two or more of the cellular module in the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one IC or one IC package. For example at least some for example the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and the Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire or the like. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module in an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The SIM card may be a card including a SIM and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a DRAM an SRAM an SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example an OTPROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be an SSD. The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a CF an SD a Micro SD a Mini SD an xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information to an electrical signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a barometer sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a red green and blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include other sensors not shown for example an E nose sensor an EMG sensor an EEG sensor an ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module .

The input device may include a touch panel a pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input through for example at least one of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive touch panel may recognize physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to the user.

The pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of the user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device which can detect an acoustic wave by a microphone for example a microphone of the electronic device through an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal to identify data and can perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or server connected to the electronic device by using the communication module .

The display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example an LCD or an AM OLED. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be located for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit not shown for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication unit illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition Link MHL interface an SD card multimedia Card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and an electrical signal. The audio module may process sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones a microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device for capturing a still image or dynamic image and may include one or more image sensors not shown for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP or a flash not shown for example an LED or xenon lamp according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a power management IC PMIC a charger IC a battery or a battery gauge. The PMIC may be mounted on for example an IC or a SoC semiconductor.

Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic scheme and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific status of the electronic device or the part for example the AP of electronic device for example a booting status a message status a charging status and the like. The motor may convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit for example a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing device for supporting mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

Each of the components of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding component may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements. Some of the above described elements may be omitted from the electronic device or the electronic device may further include additional elements. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be combined to be one entity which can perform the same functions as those of the components before the combination.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with the term unit logic logical block component circuit or the like. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an application specific IC ASIC chip a field programmable gate array FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known or are to be developed hereinafter.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some of the devices for example modules or functions thereof or the method for example operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented by a command stored in a computer readable storage medium in a programming module form. When the command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least some of the programming modules may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium includes magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tapes optical recording media such as a compact disc ROM CD ROM and a DVD magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices such as a ROM a RAM and a flash memory which are specially configured to store and perform program commands e.g. programming module. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of the present disclosure and vice versa.

The programming module according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned components or may further include other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a recording medium which stores commands is provided. When the commands are executed by one or more processors one or more operations are performed by the one or more processors. The one or more operations may include an operation for acquiring an image including one or more objects an operation for detecting distances between the one or more objects and the electronic device an operation for determining display methods of information related to the one or more objects based on the distances and an operation for displaying the information according to the determined display method.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

