---

title: Motor control for externally-operated weapon
abstract: An externally-operated weapon has a direct current servo motor that provides motive force to drive the weapon operating group at an average rate of fire. Within a single cycle, the weapon operating group is driven at rates greater than and less than the average rate of fire, while the overall rate for a single cycle is maintained at the average rate of fire. Some benefits of servo motor control include reduced power consumption, increased bolt dwell time, expansion of the weapon's battlefield role from one to many roles, and increased accuracy and shot-to-shot precision while firing from an open bolt position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09618284&OS=09618284&RS=09618284
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09618284
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150317
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 026 180 filed on Jul. 18 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates to weapons and in particular to reciprocally cycled small and medium caliber weapons.

A reciprocally cycled externally actuated weapon is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 297 167 issued on Oct. 30 2012 to Brian Hoffman and having the same assignee as the present patent application. The contents of U.S. Pat. No. 8 297 167 are incorporated by reference herein.

The weapon disclosed in the 167 patent is suitable for example for firing belted ammunition that uses open end links. Examples of open end linked ammunition are shown in . Because much belted ammunition uses closed end links a need exists for a weapon similar to the weapon of the 167 patent but with the ability to fire belted ammunition that uses open end links or closed end links such as the closed end linked ammunition shown in .

In addition it is desirable for a weapon to have first round select capability. First round select is the ability of the weapon to fire on the very first cycle following a magazine change the same ammunition type that was just loaded in a magazine even if the ammunition type presented to the weapon in the previous magazine was of a different type. Another desirable feature is first cycle fire. First cycle fire is the weapon s ability to fire a cartridge on the very first operating cycle following a magazine upload. Many small and medium caliber weapons require one or more charging cycles when initially presented with a belted ammunition supply before the first shot may be fired.

It is advantageous for externally powered small and medium caliber weapons that rely on an external power supply to consume as little power as possible. And it is desirable for a weapon to have small downrange projectile dispersion for example tighter shot groups .

A need exists for a weapon system that possesses one or more of the advantageous features described above.

One aspect of the invention is a method that includes providing an externally operated weapon having a direct current servo motor that provides motive force to drive the weapon operating group at an average rate of fire. For one portion of a single weapon cycle the weapon operating group is automatically driven at a rate less than the average rate of fire. For another portion of the single weapon cycle the weapon operating group is automatically driven at a rate greater than the average rate of fire so that the rate of fire for the complete single weapon cycle equals the average rate of fire.

The method includes automatically repeating the steps of automatically driving the weapon operating group at a rate less than the average rate of fire for a portion of a single weapon cycle and automatically driving the weapon operating group at a rate greater than the average rate of fire for another portion of the single weapon cycle to thereby fire multiple rounds from the weapon at the average rate of fire.

The method may include automatically driving the weapon operating group at a rate less than the average rate of fire for multiple portions of a single weapon cycle and automatically driving the weapon operating group at a rate greater than the average rate of fire for more than one portion of a single weapon cycle.

The method may include selecting the portion of the single weapon cycle and the other portion of the single weapon cycle so that the power usage of the weapon over the single weapon cycle is less than the power usage of the weapon over a single weapon cycle when the weapon operating group is driven only at the average rate of fire.

The method may include selecting the portion of the single weapon cycle and the other portion of the single weapon cycle so that the bolt dwell time is increased compared to a weapon operating group driven only at the average rate of fire.

The method may include selecting the portion of the single weapon cycle and the other portion of the single weapon cycle so that the weapon operating group is driven at less than the average rate of fire just prior to firing to thereby increase firing accuracy and precision.

The method may include providing a weapon with a weapon operating group that includes a bolt carrier assembly and an extractor assembly. The bolt carrier assembly and the extractor assembly may translate in opposite directions in the receiver of the weapon.

The method may include providing a weapon having a pinion that engages a rack fixed to the bolt carrier assembly. A connecting rod may have one end fixed to the pinion. A crank may be fixed to the other end of the connecting rod. The crank may have a periphery of gear teeth and a crank shaft with an axis of rotation.

The method may include providing a weapon having a motor transfer gear that meshes with the gear teeth of the crank a resolver transfer gear that meshes with the crank 180 degrees from the motor transfer gear and an encoder fixed to the crank shaft for supplying positional feedback. The direct current servo motor may drive the motor transfer gear.

The resolver transfer gear may include a resolver rotor a stationary resolver stator and the same pinion geometry as the motor transfer gear. The resolver transfer gear may sense absolute displacement rate of displacement and number of rotations.

The pinion may have a plane of linear motion. The axis of rotation of the crank shaft may not be located in the plane of linear motion of the pinion.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

As shown in weapon may include a barrel extension a barrel a receiver a right side cover a left side cover and a pair of tubes mounted in receiver . A track may be provided to assist in feeding ammunition to weapon . Weapon may include several subassemblies. The subassemblies may include a drivetrain subassembly an operating group subassembly and a barrel subassembly. The operating group subassembly may include a bolt subassembly and a firing pin subassembly.

The drivetrain subassembly may provide the energy necessary to cycle the operating group subassembly and complete other operations that may include cartridge stripping cartridge feeding cartridge chambering bolt locking cartridge firing bolt unlocking cartridge case extraction cartridge case ejection and in some embodiments cartridge indexing. The drivetrain subassembly may be seen for example in . is a partial side view partially cut away and is a partial top view in section showing a first position of the weapon of . The drivetrain subassembly may include a motor a gear box a crank a connecting rod a pinion and a stationary rack .

The operating group subassembly may be defined as the internal within the receiver components excluding the drivetrain subassembly that reciprocate throughout the operating cycle of the weapon . B C and D are perspective front right side and left side views respectively of an operating group subassembly. The operating group subassembly may include a bolt carrier pinion guides a translating rack a firing pin subassembly a firing pin drivespring a retaining plug a power take off PTO cam pin and a bolt subassembly . The bolt carrier may reciprocate in a sliding manner on a bolt carrier support such as for example the tubes .

The functional cycle of the weapon may be understood by a description of the components of the weapon as the weapon moves through its functional cycle. show respectively seven functional positions of weapon . In each of the A figure shows a partial side view partially cut away of the weapon and the B figure shows a partial top view in section of the weapon .

The output motion of the bolt carrier resulting from the rotation of the crank is a combination of the kinematics of the crank and the connecting rod along with the stroke multiplying effect caused by the interaction of the translating rack the pinion and the stationary rack . The geared engagement between the teeth of the rotating pinion the stationary rack and the translating rack may allow for a desirable two to one multiplying effect compared to the stroke length associated with using only a connecting rod and crank linkage arrangement. The pinion guides may constrain the vertical movement of the pinion as the pinion rotates and translates throughout the cycle.

During translation of the operating group subassembly the bolt carrier may be supported by and may slidably reciprocate on two tubes . In the illustrated embodiment tubes may be cylindrical in shape. Translation of the bolt subassembly as well as angular position control of the bolt subassembly may be facilitated by the tubes . Other methods may also be used to support the bolt carrier and control the angular position of the bolt subassembly . For example the receiver may be fabricated with integral features that support the bolt carrier and control the angular position of the bolt subassembly .

At this point in the cycle the bolt subassembly reaches a point where it begins to strip a cartridge from the ammunition supply and feed it into the barrel extension towards the chamber of the barrel . Stripping of cartridge may be accomplished by means of the depressible radial rammer which may pivot about the rammer pin . For most of the cycle the depressible radial rammer may remain in its stripping non depressed position relative to the bolt due to the restorative force of the rammer spring.

Depending on the particular application the ammunition supply may or may not be mechanically linked and or controlled by the PTO cam pin which may be rigidly coupled to the bolt carrier . For example the PTO cam pin may engage a cam slot in a feed cover designed to manipulate a linked belt of ammunition such as those typically used in the M249 and M240 machine guns or the PTO cam pin may engage a cylindrical cam that indexes a feed sprocket such as those used in the XM235 Rodman Squad Automatic Weapon . In other embodiments the ammunition supply may be self regulating controlling such as a spring fed stacked magazine similar to those used in the M16 M4 series of assault rifles. In other embodiments additional and other unique ammunition supply mechanisms may be utilized. For certain ammunition sources the track may be utilized for securing the ammunition supply and or controlling the presented cartridges .

Further crank rotation from the second position of results in additional forward translation of the operating group subassembly to the third position shown in . is a partial side view partially cut away and is a partial top view in section showing the third position of the weapon of . At this point the chambering of cartridge is complete. Translation of the bolt subassembly ceases but the bolt subassembly is rotating relative to the bolt carrier . This rotation of the bolt subassembly relative to the bolt carrier is possible only after the cartridge is fully chambered and the front of the bolt subassembly clears the front of the tubes . Once clear of the tubes the angular position of the bolt subassembly is no longer restricted. The bolt cam pin may engage a cam slot in the bolt carrier which in turns facilitates the intended rotation of the bolt subassembly .

At this point the front of the bolt subassembly resides within an internal pocket of the barrel extension . As the bolt subassembly rotates the locking surfaces of the bolt overlap the corresponding locking surfaces of the barrel extension . This process commonly referred to as bolt locking supports the firing event of the cartridge and decouples the reaction forces associated with the firing event from the other components of the operating group subassembly and the drivetrain subassembly.

While the bolt subassembly is no longer moving forward the bolt carrier is still undergoing forward translation. The relative movement between the bolt subassembly and bolt carrier allows the firing pin drivespring to further compress. Further compression of the firing pin drivespring generates the potential energy necessary to propel the firing pin subassembly forward and initiate ignition of the cartridge which occurs a bit later in the cycle. The firing pin drivespring may function as an energy generator to supply the energy needed to propel the firing pin subassembly toward the cartridge .

At this point in the cycle the ejector and C is fully depressed and further compresses the extractor ejector spring . The extractor has also rotated about the extractor pin until the extractor sits over the rim of the case of the cartridge .

The forward movement of the firing pin subassembly over the distance L is powered by the potential energy stored in the firing pin drivespring . The firing pin drivespring extends from its compressed state to generate the velocity and associated kinetic energy of the firing pin subassembly that is necessary for successful ignition of cartridge . The moment when the slot in the rear of the bolt becomes aligned with the engaging feature on the firing pin is analogous to pulling the trigger on a weapon that has a trigger. At that moment an event has been triggered that will result in the firing pin being propelled forward toward the primer of the cartridge with the intent of firing the cartridge .

Successful ignition of the cartridge is dependent only on the associated velocity and kinetic energy of the firing pin subassembly and does not rely on any generated momentum associated with the rest of the operating group subassembly. The lack of dependence on the movement of any other components of the operating group subassembly is important because the design of the firing mechanism in conjunction with the ability to vary the speed of the motor allows for continuous adjustment of the firing rate. The amount of energy produced by the firing pin energy generator which is the firing pin drivespring in the disclosed embodiment may be independent of the translation speed of the operating group subassembly and sufficient to ensure successful ignition of cartridge . Thus the firing rate may be continuously adjusted from zero rounds per minute up to the designed mechanical limitation which may be on the order of several hundred rounds per minute or greater.

Another advantage of the independence of the firing pin energy generator from the momentum associated with the rest of the operating group subassembly is for example when weapon must be fired as accurate as possible to engage point targets. In that case movement of the operating group subassembly may adversely affect the accuracy of weapon . But the energy available from the firing pin drivespring will result in successful ignition of cartridge regardless of the speed of the other components comprising the operating group subassembly. Therefore the operating group subassembly may be positioned such that the slot in the rear of the bolt is very nearly aligned with the engaging feature on the firing pin . Then the weapon may be aimed. When ready to fire the bolt carrier may be very slowly advanced only the miniscule amount necessary to complete rotation of the bolt subassembly and align the slot of the bolt with the engaging feature of the firing pin . When the slot of the bolt is aligned with the engaging feature of the firing pin the firing pin subassembly is driven forward and the weapon fires. In this manner any inaccuracy of the weapon that may be caused by movement of the components within weapon may be minimized.

An additional benefit of weapon is that the designed over travel in the bolt carrier in combination with the control of the release of the firing pin subassembly by the angular position of the bolt subassembly allows for advanced ignition of the cartridge relative to the bolt carrier position . Advanced ignition of the cartridge may occur while the bolt is fully rotated and locked even though the bolt carrier may still be moving forward during counter recoil. This feature allows for additional lock time of the bolt to help mitigate hang fires of the cartridge which may be problematic for certain conventional externally actuated weapon mechanisms.

While the bolt subassembly undergoes the process of unlocking the firing pin is being retracted from the slot in the rear of the bolt . The firing pin rotates with the bolt subassembly and rotates relative to the firing pin base . The firing pin base is only able to translate and not rotate within the bolt carrier . After the firing pin clears the slot in the rear of the bolt the torsion spring acts to reset the firing pin to its original angular position relative to the firing pin base at the beginning of the cycle. This action may be completed prior to completion of the unlocking of the bolt subassembly . When the bolt subassembly is completely unlocked the bolt subassembly may translate along with the bolt carrier and the remainder of the operating group subassembly.

Throughout the unlocking process of the bolt subassembly the ejector and C remains fully compressed and the extractor rotates about the rim case of the cartridge . In certain embodiments with particular ammunition handling mechanisms it is also possible that the PTO cam pin may start to engage any number of ammunition indexing mechanisms to control the movement and presentation of subsequent cartridges .

In some embodiments using certain types of ammunition handling mechanisms as the operating group subassembly passes from the sixth position to the seventh position the depressible radial rammer rotates inward about the rammer pin towards the axis of the bolt . This action is intended and may be advantageous if the cartridge that is moving into the feed position for the next cycle interferes with the path swept by the depressible radial rammer in its non depressed position. Once the depressible radial rammer is free to return to its non depressed position a rammer spring may provide the necessary restoring force.

Another embodiment of a reciprocally cycled externally actuated weapon includes an operating mechanism and supporting elements that facilitate first round select and first cycle fire capabilities. The weapon may be supplied with belted ammunition of an open end linked configuration or a closed end linked configuration. The closed end link ammunition may be for example the M9 link style or a similar style that requires rearward cartridge extraction from the link and cannot be delinked by pushing forward or through the link. Unlike open end ammunition links that enable forward stripping and feeding the cartridges contained within the closed end links must first be extracted rearward from the link itself before feeding and chambering can take place.

First round select and first round fire capabilities are important for the implementation of scalable effects e.g. switching between non lethal and lethal ammunitions as well as ensuring a safe cleared weapon following a magazine download. The weapon of may be used with existing belted ammunition types. For example the belted ammunition may be the closed end e.g. M9 style or open end e.g. M15A2 style linked configuration. No modifications to weapon are required when switching between open end and closed end linked ammunition and there is no degradation in weapon performance.

Weapon uses an electro servo drive motor in combination with customized kinematics to tailor the motion profile of the weapon operating group. Tailoring the motion profile enables the weapon to fire in a precision fire mode which results in demonstrated accuracy that far exceeds the accuracy of small caliber remote weapons systems that incorporate legacy weapons. Also the electro servo drive motor enables a continuous adjustment of the rate of fire within the designed limits of the weapon. Additionally this method of customized motion control can be advantageously used to reduce power consumption increase bolt lock time to combat hang fire malfunctions and reduce dynamic loads experienced by weapon components and or ammunition during certain portions of the operating cycle.

As an example of improved precision characteristics consider the demonstrated 100 meter extreme spread dispersion of a 10 round group fired from the inventive remotely operated weapons versus the required production qualifications for the M240B 7.62 51 mm and M2 .50 caliber legacy machine guns used in prior remotely operated weapons. For the inventive weapon in a 7.62 51 mm caliber the average extreme spread at 100 meters is 2.0 inches compared to 30 cm 11.8 inches allowable extreme spread at 100 meters for the M240B 7.62 51 mm weapon. For the inventive weapon in a .50 BMG 12.7 99 mm caliber the average extreme spread at 100 meters is 2.7 inches compared to 8.0 inches allowable extreme spread at 100 feet 26 inches allowable at 100 meters for the M2 .50 caliber weapon.

The scalable effects aspect of the novel weapon is the ability to quickly and remotely change the ammunition type presented to the weapon in mid mission to provide the most desirable terminal ballistic response to a given threat situation. A derivative of scalable effects is the desired use of both non lethal as well as lethal ammunition types and therein is the concern and need for first round select capability. Weapon may be a component i.e. the externally powered firearm of an automatically reloadable remotely operated weapon system. One example of such a weapon system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 336 442 issued on Dec. 25 2012 to Testa et al. The entire contents of U.S. Pat. No. 8 336 442 are incorporated by reference herein.

 First round select is the ability of the weapon to fire on the very first cycle following a magazine change the same ammunition type that was just loaded in a magazine even if the ammunition type presented to the weapon in the previous magazine was of a different type. This is also accomplished without the need to clear the weapon mechanism of a remaining unfired cartridge during a magazine download. The necessity to include this capability stems from the possibility of changing from a lethal ammunition type magazine to one of a non lethal type. The potential for unwanted collateral damage can occur if a weapon operator expecting to fire non lethal ammunition were to unexpectedly initiate even a single lethal cartridge at the beginning of what was thought to be a short burst of non lethal ammunition. First round select capability eliminates this potential danger.

First round select capability is achieved by mechanical components of the novel weapon that delink rounds and manipulate the position of delinked rounds to a feed ready location which is a secondary position within the ammunition magazine. The linear movement of those mechanical components is of equal speed but directionally out of phase with the primary weapon operating group by 180 degrees. Some of the important delinked cartridge control features are located in the magazine subassembly as opposed to their traditional location within the weapon mechanism itself.

Related to first round select capability is the first cycle fire capability. First cycle fire capability is the weapon s ability to fire a cartridge on the very first operating cycle following a magazine upload. It is commonplace for legacy small caliber weapons utilizing closed link ammunition such as the MK19 40 mm Grenade Machine Gun or the M2 .50 Caliber Heavy Machine Gun to require one or more charging cycles when initially presented with a belted ammunition supply before the first shot may be fired. In the novel weapon the secondary feed ready position is included in the magazine subassembly. Thus weapon operators who initially load the remote weapon system with its payload of magazines simply have to place a single delinked cartridge in the feed ready position in each magazine. Then even during the initial upload of a fresh magazine the weapon operating group will fire a cartridge on the very first cycle while it also delinks and deposits into the feed ready position the first cartridge of the belted supply.

Should a magazine be downloaded mid mission before its supply of rounds is exhausted a delinked cartridge will remain secure in the feed ready position of the downloaded magazine. And if that same magazine is uploaded to the weapon at a later time during the mission the first cycle fire capability would still be achieved without any manned intervention.

Traditional externally powered small and medium caliber weapons that rely on an electrical power supply often implement direct current motors to drive their mechanical operation. Given this approach the motor cycles uniformly resulting in a fixed firing rate and no ability to locally control kinematics within a given cycle. On other hand the novel weapon uses an electro servo motor to produce customized motion profiles that facilitate the functional capabilities of the weapon. A key advantage to the electro servo motor and customized motion profiles is the verified reduction in downrange projectile dispersion. For example the novel weapon can shoot tighter groups that increase hit probability especially at longer ranges compared to legacy small caliber machine guns in mounted or remote weapon system applications. The reduction in downrange projectile dispersion is achieved by careful control over the firing mechanism s speed and position during different critical events in the firing cycle. For example the weapon s operating group may be slowed down just prior to firing to allow the weapon to fully stabilize while concurrently minimizing the time delay between the firing command and break of the shot.

Additionally the use of an electric servo drive motor with tailored motion control relates to higher power efficiency which translates into lower current demands to meet operational goals. This is highly desirable because for example a vehicle for example an HMMWV on which the weapon may be mounted has a limited supply of power to support ancillary systems including externally powered weapons. By implementing even a stepped input control scheme containing discrete localized rate options it is possible to lower both the root mean square and peak torque current and associated power the operating voltage does not change requirements. The rate is rounds fired per minute. The torque current and power requirements are lowered by more optimally maneuvering the weapon s operating group through a cycle containing known events with known energy requirements. That is the operating group is moved at higher localized rates relative to the average commanded cyclic rate during low load positions of the cycle and the operating group is moved at lower localized rates relative to the average commanded cyclic rate through positions events that consume more energy.

Because the energy required to accelerate decelerate the moving masses of the operating group or maintain a certain commanded cyclic rate as the operating group moves differentially through energy robbing events is much higher than all other contributors to cyclic torque requirements combined increasing the difference between average commanded and differential cyclic rates in this fashion produces the desired effect in terms of reduced driving torque and power. This type of customized control is accomplished without changing the total cycle time. So the benefit of reduced power consumption is achieved transparently to the weapon user because the perceived firing rate is still maintained.

It is useful here to describe in limited detail the ammunition that is compatible with the weapons depicted in respectively. are top and bottom isometric views respectively of a belt of four rounds of ammunition. The cartridges are flexibly coupled in this instance by open end links . These disintegrating members or links snap around part of the diameter of the cartridge case but do not close on themselves as is evident in . Both weapons are capable of firing ammunition coupled with links . In each weapon the stripping lug of the bolt or catches the rim and case head of the cartridge and pushes it forward through the open ended link towards the barrel.

In contrast the ammunition linking system depicted in is compatible with the weapon depicted in but not with weapon of . The closed end links which couple the cartridges wrap around the full circumference of the case and neck and close in loops about themselves. The cartridges in the closed end links must be removed by first pulling the rim rearward to dislodge cartridge from the belt of links .

The short extractor and long extractor are movable within but captive to the extractor body frame . The short extractor can translate or slide towards and away from the center of the lifting slot parallel to the X axis as defined in . The short extractor is confined within a mating dovetail groove in the extractor body frame . Likewise the long extractor translates inward and outward within its own slot parallel to the Z axis which is identified in . The flat rearward facing surfaces of both extractors mimic and form an extension to geometry of the solid T slot . The extractors are spring biased inward toward the lifting slot but are defeated when the extractor body impacts the rim of a cartridge. The cartridge rim is presented at roughly the intersection of the two vectors created by the extractors degrees of freedom. Lead in angles on the forward facing side of the extractors facilitate capture of rim . At this lower cartridge position the extractors snap over the cartridge rim . The extractors flat rearward side prevents the cartridge from any further relative motion forward.

The cartridge is free to slide within the extractor T Slot . The upper limit of translation is the cartridge upper position. The anti backup pawl is spring biased and pivots about a point in the extractor body frame . It is defeated by a cartridge rising up through the T slot . The anti backup pawl is angled such that a cartridge cannot defeat it while attempting to lower through the T Slot effectively creating a one way gate and the lower limit of the cartridge upper position. The cartridge retainer likewise defines the upper most limit for the cartridge upper position. The cartridge retainer and anti back up pawl are spring biased parallel to the Y axis as defined in . The cartridge retainer and anti back up pawl prevent any significant vertical motion of the cartridge in this upper position while the T slot is still limiting lateral motion and axial motion.

In the extractor body has impacted the extraction positioned cartridge and the long extractor and short extractor have snapped over the rim of its cartridge case as can be seen in . Also shown is the power take off tube into which the power take off tube cam slot is machined. In the embodiment shown the extractor body is partially supported by the contact between the power take off tube bearing surface and power take off tube but may be supported in some other manner.

As the weapon cycle progresses from this recoil position into counter recoil the extraction positioned cartridge gripped at the rim by the short extractor and long extractor is so too pulled rearward. It is extracted from the link and pulled out of the magazine A into the weapon receiver . While constrained by the long extractor and the short extractor in the lower position the cartridge is pulled along the gradually sloping surface of the lifting cam eventually transitioning to the solid T slot as it moves upward in the extractor body . The lifting cam is located such that the lifting slot of the extractor body passes over it imparting a controlled upward vector to the cartridge . The cartridge defeats the anti backup pawl on the way up and is stopped from exiting the top of the extractor body by the cartridge retainer .

In thru C the weapon components are at the full counter recoil position. show how the cartridge is trapped in the upper cartridge position. Then the cycle continues moving again towards the full recoil position of the bolt carrier . The ammunition indexing action described below occurs as the extractor body is moving rearward and the bolt carrier is moving forward in counter recoil. The power take off cam pin located on the power take off tube bearing surface is situated so as to seat within the power take off tube cam slot . Interaction of pin and slot causes the power take off tube to rotate as the power take off cam pin translates linearly along slot . Through the interaction of the power take off tube interface with structural components of the magazine A the power take off cam tube likewise imparts rotation to the sprocket . In this embodiment the sprocket rotates a cartridge from the standby cartridge position into the extraction positioned cartridge location . When the extractor body returns location is where the extractor body will again impact a cartridge. Thus the rearward motion of the extractor body positions the next round in the magazine. The power take off tube interface may also interact with any manner of magazine mechanisms that will serve to advance a cartridge from the standby cartridge position to the extraction positioned cartridge location .

Referring to the magazine feed box is another relevant component of the magazine A as it relates to the reciprocally cycled externally actuated weapon . In this embodiment the magazine feed box is located above the sprocket or other relevant ammunition handling mechanism and is integral to the magazine A. thru show the magazine feed box in its position relative to the sprocket and belt in the magazine A with additional magazine structure omitted. depicts the period of weapon cycle when the extractor body has locked a cartridge into the upper position of the extractor body and the bolt carrier has begun to recoil. The extractor body moves forward while the bolt carrier moves to the rear open bolt position.

A short distance before encountering the next extraction positioned cartridge in the sprocket the lifting boss and front plane of the extractor body first make contact with components of the magazine feed box . The magazine feed box is static with respect to the magazine A and receiver and contains the follower . The follower is movable in the magazine feed box . At the portion of the cycle depicted in the follower is in the lower follower position. The follower is spring biased into the lower follower position and has not yet moved within the magazine feed box .

As the extractor body approaches the feed box the cartridge it contains is in line with a pocket within the follower which is contoured to securely contain a de linked round of ammunition. When the front plane of the extractor body contacts the rear surface of the follower the cartridge is fully contained within the follower . Simultaneously the cartridge retainer is being fully depressed by the follower rear surface as seen in . The fully depressed cartridge retainer finally allows further upward motion of the cartridge through the T slot and eventually out of the T slot completely as is occurring in . The extractor body is still moving forward and the lifting boss which is still in contact with the follower starts to push the follower against its spring bias.

The follower contains two follower cam pins which are free to ride upward and forward within the magazine feed box follower cams . With the cartridge retainer still depressed the formerly constrained cartridge which is now the follower deposited cartridge moves forward and upward with the follower as the extractor body approaches its full forward stroke. At this point the extractor body has also latched onto the next extraction positioned cartridge in the sprocket . The vertical throw of the follower is such that it lifts the cartridge clear of the solid T slot . Cartridge and extractor body are now separated.

The cycle continues to counter recoil of the bolt carrier with the extractor body moving rearward and bolt carrier moving forward as depicted in . The follower is still spring biased rearward and downward but locked in the upper follower position for the time being. The feed ready cartridge is now in position to be stripped from the follower by the bolt subassembly being carried by bolt carrier and pushed into the barrel and fired in the same manner as the reciprocally cycled externally actuated weapon of . The extractor body has at this point also extracted another cartridge from its linked position in the belted ammunition supply and the cycle continues.

The follower is fully constrained within the magazine feed box structure except to slide upward and forward in the YZ plane as defined in . The follower cams which are integral to the magazine feed box define the path taken by the follower cam pins . Within the follower the follower return is a spring loaded plunger that biases the follower rearward against the structure of the magazine feed box . The forward surface of the follower return is free to slide vertically against the structure of box as the follower rises and falls.

The follower further includes the follower sear surface which is machined integrally beneath. As the follower is moved into the upper follower position by the extractor body the follower sear surface engages the follower release sear . The follower release sear is spring biased to the position shown in . The follower release sear pivots within the magazine feed box and catches the follower sear surface as it passes thereby preventing the follower from any rearward or downward motion the follower return would otherwise induce. The bumper protrudes slightly from the rear surface of follower . Bumper may be made of a shock absorbing polymer material to help cushion the impact with the extractor body lifting boss during the lifting of the follower .

The feed ready cartridge itself is positively secured within the follower by the action of the sub follower that tightly biases the ammunition into the follower feed lips . The sub follower is contoured to the shape of the cartridge for gripping purposes. The sub follower is recessed within the follower as seen in . The sub follower and feed lips act like a conventional box magazine for a rifle holding the de linked cartridge in place and maintaining positive control during stripping and feeding.

The bolt carrier is driving the stripping lug of the bolt sub assembly into the case head of a feed ready cartridge in . The cartridge is biased by the sub follower toward the centerline of the barrel as it is pushed through the feed lips of the follower . When released the bolt will continue to drive the semi chambered cartridge until it fully seats within the barrel and the bolt sub assembly is locked in the barrel extension ahead of firing. The sear trigger mounts to the sear trigger mount . In the disclosed embodiment the sear trigger mount is itself part of the receiver located beneath the barrel extension . The sear trigger can only translate with respect to the sear trigger mount in a direction parallel to the X axis as defined in .

Following stripping feeding and firing of cartridge firing occurs just shy of the full counter recoil position of bolt carrier the now empty follower and magazine feed box appear as they are shown in thru D orthographic projections and isometric relief . With no cartridge remaining the sub follower returns to its upper limit of travel within the follower as seen in . When the bolt carrier nears the end of its forward stroke it activates a mechanism that causes the follower release sear to pivot away from the follower sear surface to the position shown in . In doing so the follower return is free to force the follower back into its lower position where the follower can again accept a de linked cartridge from the extractor body . By now the extractor body is fully rearward and has extracted and lifted a new round to the upper cartridge position in extractor body as previously described. The follower release sear will return to its default closed position when the bolt carrier begins its retreat during recoil. In its default closed position the follower release sear is ready to catch the follower sear surface again during the next cycle.

After the bolt carrier has stripped and fed the feed ready cartridge the follower is induced to return to its lower position to receive another follower deposited cartridge from the extractor body . The mechanism by which the bolt carrier trips the follower release sear is depicted in and . For clarity only the bolt carrier with lower translating rack B are shown rather than all components and subassemblies comprising the primary operating group. Additionally some magazine feed box structure has been sectioned away. The shank axis of the sear trigger is located coincident with the centerline of the sear window when a magazine A is present on the weapon.

In the sear trigger is shown being forced through the sear window of the magazine feed box and into the follower release sear above its pivot thereby forcing the follower release sear away from the follower sear surface . The sear trigger is normally spring biased away from the follower release sear . But the sear trigger slides along the sear trigger mount as the bolt carrier trigger surface engages with the sear trigger disengage surface . The bolt carrier trigger surface is an integral part of the bolt carrier and typically comprises a lead in edge on the lower translating rack B. The sear trigger disengage surface is a likewise angled boss that is integral to the sear trigger .

As the bolt carrier nears its full counter recoil position an interference condition exists between the bolt carrier trigger surface and the sear trigger disengage surface . The correlating angled geometry of the surfaces causes the sear trigger to slide along its guide mount. A protrusion integral to the sear trigger engages the magazine components as shown in . The act by the sear trigger of tripping the follower back to its lower position is kinematically and mechanically timed to occur after the cartridge has been fully stripped and fed from the follower by the bolt . The cycle continues until full counter recoil of bolt carrier at which point the projectile has been launched. As the bolt carrier enters the recoil portion of its stroke the previously interfering surfaces clear each other the sear trigger retracts and the follower release sear resets to catch the follower on the next cycle.

If events dictate the detachable modular ammunition magazine A can be remotely removed from the weapon at any point during the cycle excepting the brief period between the beginning of the positioning by the extractor body of the follower deposited cartridge see and when the cartridge is fully separated from the extractor body . Removing the magazine while a cartridge is in the upper position on the extractor body but not yet entering into the follower as described can be performed but a live cartridge will then remain within the receiver . Any subsequent magazine that is loaded must not have a feed ready cartridge in the feed box or stoppage can occur under this condition.

The preferable magazine download period occurs at the position depicted in . At this point the feed ready cartridge is safely seated in the follower in the same manner as when a full magazine is initially loaded onto the weapon system and the cartridge is completely free from the weapon . Referring to the magazine sprocket magazine feed box and the rest of the magazine are withdrawn down and away from the extractor body . Although the long extractor and short extractor have already latched onto the extraction positioned cartridge in the magazine sprocket the design of the spring loaded long extractor is such that the typical download motion itself will mechanically defeat it without additional intervention. Following download the magazine A is fully ready to be re inserted at any time and fired immediately on the first commanded cycle.

The magazine feed box magazine sprocket and detachable modular magazine A enable the weapon to cycle belts of ammunition whose closed end links circumferentially enclose the individual cartridges as seen in . The cycle of operation previously described is a means to manipulate a round of ammunition from this belted configuration by delinking it feeding it into the barrel and firing it.

The weapon with no parts changes or modification of any sort will also accept an alternate magazine that contains belted ammunition in the open linked configuration as depicted in . This ammunition handling system is shown in in isometric front and rear views respectively. With respect to .50 BMG 12.7 99 mm caliber machine guns open end linked belts are not as common in the U.S. military as closed end linked belts but the open end linked belts offer some advantages in simplicity of the cartridge positioning and feeding cycle. As can be seen in the individual member links of an open end linked cartridge belt snap around only a portion of the circumference of the cartridge case . The link itself serves part of the role that the feed lips of the aforementioned follower provide. The stripping lug on the bolt can force the cartridge from the link directly forward and into the barrel extension with no intermediate de linking or repositioning.

Referring again to the open end linked magazine typically includes an aft cover fore cover and feed cover which comprises the general superstructure. The open link feed ready cartridge is presented to the bolt carrier and bolt stripping lug in nearly the same position and manner as it would be in the close end link magazine feed box . The open link feed lips augment the spring steel links in constraining and guiding the open link feed ready cartridge . The roller is spring biased upward and presses the open link feed ready cartridge against the open link feed lips serving a feed guiding purpose as well much like the sub follower of the magazine feed box . The open link power take off tube interface mates with the weapon power take off tube which is again actuated by the power take off cam pin in the extractor body . This imparts rotation to the drive shaft which cycles the open end linked belt handling mechanism and presents new rounds to be fed and fired.

The feed mechanism is detailed in . is an isometric front view of the feed mechanism only and is an isometric rear view which includes the open link power take off tube interface and a belt of open linked ammunition . The shuttle guide rods are fixed to the aft cover and span its height. They serve as a track on which the pawl shuttle is free to translate vertically both upward and downward. The pawl shuttle connects to the shuttle rack which meshes with the shuttle pinion . Rotation of the shuttle pinion causes shuttle rack and pawl shuttle to rise or descend. In this depiction corresponding to the full recoil position of bolt carrier the pawl shuttle has moved to its upper most position. The belt of ammunition is suspended in the present position by the action of the pawl fingers on the pawl shuttle and by the anti backup magazine pawls which are fixed to and pivot in the magazine structure. Both pawl types are spring biased to allow an upward relative motion between the pawl and the ammunition belt. A round defeats each pawl which then springs back underneath the space between the links as the round passes effectively hanging the belt in place.

The open linked feed ready cartridge is being stripped and fed in which are front and side views respectively of the feed mechanism ammunition and select weapon components. The bolt carrier is moving forward during counter recoil and the stripping lug engages and pushes on the case head much the same as it would with the closed link ammunition magazine feed box . The spring pressure acting from the roller guides the tip of the round toward the centerline of the barrel extension . As the round is leaving the open link cartridge belt and feed cover the anti backup magazine pawls hold the rest of the belt in place. Operation of the weapon is unchanged between the closed end link magazine A and the open end link magazine. The bolt carrier translates fore and aft which in turn moves the extractor body in the opposite direction. The power take off cam pin rotates the power take off tube via the power take off tube cam slot . The lifting cam is not used but can remain installed within the receiver as it provides no obstruction to the other moving parts. Most of the extractor body is not used either although it translates without interfering with the open end link magazine operation. The power take off tube interface mates with the open link power take off tube interface to operate the driveshaft and associated gears and feed mechanism as described.

At full counter recoil of the bolt carrier the open link feed ready cartridge has been fed and fired and the extractor body is in its rearward most position. is a rear view sectioned through the roller . The drive shaft of the magazine has rotated and caused the shuttle rack and pawl shuttle to be lowered. The open link feed ready cartridge is gone but the link remains biased against the open link feed lips by the roller and the entire belt is held up by the anti backup magazine pawls . The pawl shuttle descends and the pawl fingers pivot and collapse as they pass downward relative to the next cartridge. When clear the pawl fingers snap back out and under the next cartridge.

As the bolt carrier continues into the recoil stroke the extractor body and power take off cam pin begin to return forward again rotating the drive shaft though in the opposite radial direction towards the position it was in as shown in . The corresponding upward motion of the pawl shuttle then pushes the remaining open link cartridge belt up with it. The dust cover guides the next feed ready cartridge above it into place. The roller has its pivot located such that this incoming round can roll over the cylinder and briefly depress the arm to clear it. Movement of the belt and positioning of the next cartridge to be fired displaces the empty link above which is pushed out and to the left of the magazine.

As explained earlier weapon cycling is powered externally and not dependent on a fired cartridge s impulse. In a particular embodiment of the weapon system software is used in conjunction with specialized motor and sensor hardware to drive operation intelligently. This is in contrast with more simple on off or high rate low rate schemes. Additional hardware for the weapon power and drive train is depicted in which is a view looking into the weapon from the magazine side. is a sectional view from the top and is a view looking at the weapon s closed side. Some components have been omitted for clarity.

Like the weapon of motor torque is transferred to the crank of weapon to move the connecting rod and bolt carrier . In this particular embodiment the crank is a large spur gear which meshes with the motor transfer gear C which is driven directly by an electric servo motor . The servo motor includes an independently mounted motor stator A and a concentric motor rotor B that interfaces with the weapon drive train.

The servo motor departs from a typical direct current motor in that motor has better power efficiency and the ability to precisely control its output motion profile angular displacement velocity and acceleration . A servomotor by definition consists of the rotary actuator motor and a directly coupled position feedback sensor. These physical elements are controlled by drive hardware and software. Control of the output motion profile is required to facilitate continuously variable firing rates remote clearing of some malfunctions high levels of accuracy and precision while still firing from the open bolt position and capitalizing on the kinematics of the linkage motion to reduce power consumption. To allow for precision control weapon software and driver hardware need real time accurate feedback on the position of the motor rotor B speed and angular momentum. Redundant sensors perform this task.

The resolver transfer gear C meshes with the crank member one hundred and eighty degrees away from the motor torque input. Mechanical support from the resolver transfer gear C balances the highly non linear and severe loading imparted to the crank . A more critical function of resolver transfer gear C is the rotary data the resolver transfer gear C feeds to the weapon resolver . Consisting of the resolver rotor B tied to the gear C and stationary resolver stator A the resolver is a rotary transformer that tracks absolute displacement rate of displacement and number of rotations at very high resolution. The resolver transfer gear C and motor transfer gear C have the same pinion geometry 1 1 motion profile relationship so feedback from the resolver tracks the motor exactly and allows for the primary control of the weapon in both commutation and feedback.

A secondary control element the encoder is directly connected to the crank shaft A and thus offers positional feedback not subject to the slight variability of gear meshing ratios and pitch circle deviations. Encoder feedback also represents the true un geared position of crank . Though not able to measure in discrete steps as small as a resolver the encoder maintains positional information even in the event that power is removed from the system. This provides for a critical safety function in the event of a malfunction user error or other unintended interruption of operation. Alternatively the servo motor resolver and encoder may all be mounted directly on the crank shaft A if space permits. Use of data from the encoder for rough positional feedback also frees the more accurate resolver to drive the motor s velocity directly instead of differentiating from displacement and thus run more efficiently. demonstrate this potential. The drive and commutation elements described can be utilized to provide localized motor commands and rapid adjustments in velocity and acceleration to take advantage of the intrinsic mechanical dynamics of the system. is a control regime in which the cyclic rate of the weapon varies between low and high speeds at different points in time of a single cycle at a desired average perceived firing rate. This is compared in to a constant angular velocity delivering the same average firing rate. Known mechanical events such as ammunition indexing bolt locking and the dynamic profile of the slider crank linkage correspond to these times. shows rate changes as idealized step inputs to illustrate a more preferable and proactive strategy for handling known high energy torque cyclic events.

The servo driven weapon enables variation of the overall average cycle time firing rate anywhere from zero to a designed upper limit. Certain firing frequencies may yield improved shot dispersion in an automatic mode of fire for example. If a weapon does not have sufficient flexibility in rate of fire variance for example only two or three rate of fire options are possible using a conventional DC motor with non profiled control one may never identify the most ideal rate or rates of fire for dispersion performance.

Servo motor control enables an increased bolt dwell time which is the total time duration that the bolt remains locked at the end of counter recoil by reducing the operating group speed at that one particular portion of the cycle and thereby increasing the time the bolt is locked to the barrel. Of particular concern is the dwell time after a shot is fired. Increased dwell time after a shot is fired reduces the frequency of hangfire malfunctions which are of particular concern in an externally powered weapon.

An additional advantage to the servo driven and sensor controlled weapon is in precision of firing. Conventional machineguns and marksman rifles serve two very different roles on the battlefield. The machinegun saturates a target area with bursts of automatic fire in order to impede enemy movement and affect mass casualties. To this end a high rate of fire is typical and along with more loosely fitting components allows the weapon to generally develop a relatively wide dispersion pattern of outgoing projectiles. This lack of precise fire from shot to shot is not necessarily undesirable in this type of system. Even at a high rate of fire it may be desirable to reduce the rate of fire to prolong the ability to continue firing should the ammunition supply become low. Conversely a marksman or sniper rifle is highly tuned and components are very tight fitting. Typically available in semi automatic or manual cartridge cycling a sniper rifle is fired at a low cadence from a well supported and stable platform to enable highly accurate and repeatable targeting. This approach facilitates successful accurately placed engagements over much longer distances.

A servo motor controlled weapon can fill both of these roles while limiting the performance trade offs versus having multiple weapons that are each dedicated to a specific role. Having the ability to adjust the operational kinematics at a level within an individual cycle allows for both suppressive and precision firing. Regarding precision firing the ability to speed up or slow down the weapon operating group through the use of a profiled cycle means that a cartridge can still be quickly chambered and all but fired before all moving parts are dramatically slowed down relatively speaking allowing the system to stabilize for maximum precision. This approach to precision fire also allows exploitation of said advantages to increase accuracy and minimize shot to shot dispersion while also minimizing the time delay between commanded fire and break of the shot as the overall cycle time must still occur sufficiently fast as to not result in a noticeable lag from the operator s perspective. Laboratory testing has confirmed that this mode of fire enables the disclosed weapons to approach the performance metrics of currently fielded small caliber sniper rifles when operated in the precision firing mode. One of the keys in implementing multi role operationally speaking weapon systems is to ensure that all firing cycles begin from the full recoil open bolt position. Beginning from the full recoil open bolt position greatly limits cartridge cook off malfunctions especially in the case where the mode of weapon operation changes during the course of a mission from suppressive fire to long range precision fire for example. Careful attention to such details and the deliberate implementation of these types of customized kinematic controls does offer a real possibility of a single weapon serving more than one battlefield role for example sniper rifle assault rifle or machine gun.

Event A corresponds to time zero and displacement 0.000 of bolt carrier . The weapon operating group movement is initiated with the bolt carrier starting in its full recoil position. The bolt carrier begins moving forward in counter recoil toward the barrel breech while the extractor body begins moving rearward at the same speed as the bolt carrier but in the opposite direction. Simultaneously the delinking of the belted cartridge contained within the magazine is initiated by the extractor body.

At event B the displacement of bolt carrier is 1.007 inches and the delinked cartridge contained in the extractor body begins its vertical lift in the extractor body T slot via the lifting cam. In it can be seen that the natural un profiled motion at this point approaches a very high peak torque and therefore high energy demand. By slowing the motion as prescribed in the profiled motion curve in the corresponding torque peak is significantly clipped.

At event C the displacement of bolt carrier is 1.156 inches and the Bolt begins stripping a delinked cartridge sitting in the Follower placed there by the Extractor Body in the previous cycle or if the very first cycle fired this delinked round would have been placed in the Follower manually by the user and moving it forward toward the barrel chamber.

At event D the displacement of bolt carrier is 2.374 inches and rotation of the power take off tube begins thereby initiating indexing of the ammunition belt in the magazine to present the next linked cartridge to the extractor body in the subsequent cycle.

At event E the displacement of bolt carrier is 8.480 inches and the delinked cartridge from event C is now fully chambered. The bolt has reached its most forward position overcoming any designed case crush in the process up to 0.010 inch potentially under certain material conditions . Bolt locking will commence as will compression of the firing pin drivespring. These cycle events would otherwise impose another torque peak were the system not again slowed down through the use of servo motor control.

At event F the displacement of bolt carrier is 9.374 inches and rotation of the power take off tube is complete thereby completing index of the ammunition belt.

At event G the displacement of bolt carrier is 9.480 inches and bolt locking is complete as is loading of the firing pin drivespring. The firing pin is also released at this point and allowed to move forward under the potential energy of the firing pin drivespring. Firing of the chambered cartridge takes place nearly instantaneously within a few milliseconds . During this period of relatively low natural torque draw the cycle is sped up past the overall average firing rate. Here the profiled motion actually draws more energy than natural motion. Since this half of the cycle has much lower overall power needs however no large peaks are created.

At event H the displacement of bolt carrier is 9.678 inches and the delinked cartridge contained in the extractor body completes its vertical lift in the extractor body T slot via the lifting cam.

At event I the displacement of bolt carrier is 10.000 inches and the bolt carrier reaches its full counter recoil most forward position in the cycle. Velocity of the weapon operating group reaches zero and then must be quickly brought back up to speed moving in the opposite direction in order to complete the second half recoil portion of the cycle.

At event K the displacement of bolt carrier is 8.480 inches and bolt unlocking is complete. Extraction of the fired case from the barrel chamber begins.

At event L the displacement of bolt carrier is 3.070 inches and the fired case is ejected from the weapon.

At event M the displacement of bolt carrier is 0.900 inches. Forward and vertical motion of the follower is initiated by the extractor body note that the delinked cartridge that was contained within the extractor body T slot has been deposited in the follower at this point .

At event N the displacement of bolt carrier is 0.000 inches and the bolt carrier reaches its full recoil position once again. Forward and vertical motion of the follower is complete. The extractor body grabs onto the next linked cartridge in the ammunition belt.

The customized motor control reduces the driving torque and the associated current and power consumption while still achieving the equivalent perceived firing rate of non customized control. The most dominant energy torque demanding events typically involve accelerations of the weapon operating group starting from points of zero velocity or decelerations of the weapon operating group when approaching points of zero velocity. For example events A I and N are dominant torque demanding events as well as the kinematics associated with approaching and leaving these events. In cases where the operating group is starting from rest i.e. event A the disclosed method uses a localized reduction in the within a single cycle rate to help reduce driving torque requirements. This is so even though it may take slightly longer to overcome inertia and build up to an appreciable velocity. Once sufficient velocity and momentum is achieved the local rate within a single cycle is increased above the desired average cyclic firing rate to catch up for the slower start to the cycle while still maintaining lower input torque compared to a non customized method of control.

When the operating group momentum is realized it is desirable to take advantage of the high momentum as much as possible to help power through known upcoming areas of higher torque demands such as events E G. This is done to reduce the burden on the drive motor caused by rapidly applying higher levels of torque to meet a certain motion profile.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

