---

title: Systems and methods for performing real-time image vectorization
abstract: Systems and methods for performing real-time image vectorization are disclosed. In one embodiment, the method comprises receiving a vectorized base image. The method further comprises displaying the vectorized base image on a display screen of the camera. The method further comprises obtaining a user feedback on the vectorized base image from a user. The user feedback comprises user selection of at least one non-vectorized subsection in the vectorized base image. The method further comprises receiving a subsection image, from the camera, comprising the at least one non-vectorized subsection selected based on the user feedback. The further comprises performing vectorization on the subsection image to obtain vectorized subsections. The method further comprises overlaying the vectorized subsections on the at least one non-vectorized subsection of the vectorized base image. The method further comprises merging the vectorized base image with the vectorized subsections to obtain an output vectorized image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531957&OS=09531957&RS=09531957
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09531957
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150814
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to India Application No. 3209 CHE 2015 filed Jun. 25 2015. The entire contents of the aforementioned application are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to image vectorization and more particularly to systems and methods for performing real time image vectorization.

With advent of smart phones and mobile applications image vectorization is gaining popularity these days. The image vectorization may be defined as conversion of raster graphics in an image to vector graphics. In an example vectorization of an image may involve detecting processing various image details like edges and homogenous color regions in image. The vectorization may enable a user to select subsections present in a vectorized image. Thereafter the user may perform desired operations on the selected subsections. One of the desired operations may be coloring of the subsections. In an example the user may select a window from a vectorized image of his her house and apply a color to the window to see how it appears in that particular color. Once an image is captured by a camera the image may be processed using various image processing techniques such as an edge detection technique a line specific shape detection technique and a region detection technique before converting into a reasonable vectorized image. Further it may be possible that some of the images may not be vectorized up to a desired quality due to absence of required detail orientation which enables the best possible vectorization. In such case the user may not be able to select the subsections which are not vectorized to perform the desired operation.

In one embodiment a method for performing real time image vectorization is disclosed. The method comprises receiving by a processor a vectorized base image. The method further comprises displaying the vectorized base image on a display screen of the camera. The method further comprises obtaining a user feedback on the vectorized base image from a user. The user feedback comprises user selection of at least one non vectorized subsection in the vectorized base image. The method further comprises receiving a subsection image from the camera comprising the at least one non vectorized subsection selected based on the user feedback. The further comprises performing vectorization on the subsection image to obtain vectorized subsections. The method further comprises overlaying the vectorized subsections on the at least one non vectorized subsection of the vectorized base image. The method further comprises merging the vectorized base image with the vectorized subsections to obtain an output vectorized image.

In another embodiment a system for performing real time image vectorization is disclosed. The system includes at least one processors and a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium stores instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising receiving a vectorized base image. The operations further comprise displaying the vectorized base image on a display screen of the camera. The operations further comprise obtaining a user feedback on the vectorized base image from a user. The user feedback comprises user selection of at least one non vectorized subsection in the vectorized base image. The operations further comprise receiving a subsection image from the camera comprising the at least one non vectorized subsection selected based on the user feedback. The operations further comprise performing vectorization on the subsection image to obtain vectorized subsections. The operations further comprise overlaying the vectorized subsections on the at least one non vectorized subsection of the vectorized base image. The operations further comprise merging the vectorized base image with the vectorized subsections to obtain an output vectorized image.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium for performing real time image vectorization is disclosed which when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform operations comprising receiving a vectorized base image. The operations further comprise displaying the vectorized base image on a display screen of the camera. The operations further comprise obtaining a user feedback on the vectorized base image from a user. The user feedback comprises user selection of at least one non vectorized subsection in the vectorized base image. The operations further comprise receiving a subsection image from the camera comprising the at least one non vectorized subsection selected based on the user feedback. The operations further comprise performing vectorization on the subsection image to obtain vectorized subsections. The operations further comprise overlaying the vectorized subsections on the at least one non vectorized subsection of the vectorized base image. The operations further comprise merging the vectorized base image with the vectorized subsections to obtain an output vectorized image.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the figures the left most digits of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

In one conventional approach a base image is obtained and vectorization is performed to vectorize objects present in the base image. In some cases where the base image is not of desired quality or orientation some objects in the base image may not get vectorized. Therefore the base image is not vectorized completely and a user may not be able to select the non vectorized objects to perform desired operations.

The present subject matter discloses systems and methods for performing real time vectorization. The systems and methods may be implemented in a variety of computing systems. The computing systems that can implement the described method s include but are not limited to a server a desktop personal computer a notebook or a portable computer hand held devices and a mainframe computer. Although the description herein is with reference to certain computing systems the systems and methods may be implemented in other computing systems albeit with a few variations as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

In the present subject matter to perform real time vectorization of a base image a vectorization mode may be initiated by a user through a hand held device comprising a camera. In the vectorization mode the base image may be captured by the camera and provided for vectorization. In one implementation the base image may be obtained from an image repository having previously captured images. The base image may comprise subsections. The subsections may be understood as a region having objects in the image. For example an image of a building may have subsections having subjects such as windows pillars doors architecture and roof of the building. For accurate vectorization of the subsections these objects should be properly captured and are in proper orientation.

In operations a vectorized base image in which all the subsections are not vectorized may be obtained. In an example the base image may be obtained and then vectorized to obtain the vectorized base image. The vectorized base image may be displayed on a display screen of a device. Thereafter a user feedback may be received on the vectorized base image from the user. The user feedback may indicate at least one subsection that is not vectorized in the vectorized base image. Such subsections which are not vectorized may be referred to as non vectorized subsections hereinafter. Subsequently a subsection image corresponding to the at least one non vectorized subsections may be received from the camera for vectorization. Once the subsection image comprising the non vectorized subsections is vectorized the subsection image is merged with the vectorized base image to obtain an output vectorized image which will have the vectorized subsections selected by the user. In this manner real time vectorization of the image is performed based on the user feedback.

Working of the systems and methods for performing real time vectorization is described in conjunction with . It should be noted that the description and drawings merely illustrate the principles of the present subject matter. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the present subject matter and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the present subject matter and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass equivalents thereof. While aspects of the systems and methods can be implemented in any number of different computing systems environments and or configurations the embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system architecture s .

The system may be implemented on variety of computing systems. Examples of the computing systems may include a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet a notebook a workstation a mainframe computer a server a network server and the like.

The system may be communicatively coupled to the camera through a network. The network may be a wireless network wired network or a combination thereof. The network can be implemented as one of the different types of networks such as intranet local area network LAN wide area network WAN the internet and such. The network may either be a dedicated network or a shared network which represents an association of the different types of networks that use a variety of protocols for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Wireless Application Protocol WAP etc. to communicate with each other. Further the network may include a variety of network devices including routers bridges servers computing devices storage devices etc. In one implementation the system and the camera may be present within a single device. For example the system and the camera may be present in a user device such as a mobile phone. In such cases the system and the camera may communicate directly without the presence of any network.

As shown in the system comprises a processor a memory coupled to the processor and interface s . The processor may be implemented as one or more microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuitries and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor is configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions stored in the memory . The memory can include any non transitory computer readable medium known in the art including for example volatile memory e.g. RAM and or non volatile memory e.g. EPROM flash memory etc. .

The interface s may include a variety of software and hardware interfaces for example a web interface a graphical user interface etc. allowing the system to interact with the user devices . Further the interface s may enable the system respectively to communicate with other computing devices. The interface s can facilitate multiple communications within a wide variety of networks and protocol types including wired networks for example LAN cable etc. and wireless networks such as WLAN cellular or satellite. The interface s may include one or more ports for connecting a number of devices to each other or to another server.

In one example the system includes modules and data . In one embodiment the modules and the data may be stored within the memory . In one example the modules amongst other things include routines programs objects components and data structures which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The modules and may also be implemented as signal processor s state machine s logic circuitries and or any other device or component that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Further the modules can be implemented by one or more hardware components by computer readable instructions executed by a processing unit or by a combination thereof.

In one implementation the modules further include a display module a capture module a vectorization module and a merge module . In an example the modules may also comprises other modules. The other modules may perform various miscellaneous functionalities of the system . It will be appreciated that such aforementioned modules may be represented as a single module or a combination of different modules.

In one example the data serves amongst other things as a repository for storing data fetched processed received and generated by one or more of the modules . In one implementation the data may include image data . In one embodiment the data may be stored in the memory in the form of various data structures. Additionally the aforementioned data can be organized using data models such as relational or hierarchical data models. In an example the data may also comprises other data used to store data including temporary data and temporary files generated by the modules for performing the various functions of the system .

In operations when a user wants to perform vectorization of an image the system may receive an input from the user for initiating a vectorization mode. Once the vectorization mode is initiated the user may capture a base image through the camera . The base image may comprise a plurality of objects. For example the base image may be an image of a motor vehicle having the plurality of objects such as tires a bonnet a trunk doors windows and a roof. Further a region or area corresponding each of the plurality of objects may be referred to as a subsection. In this manner the base image may comprises a plurality of subsections.

Upon obtaining the base image the system may vectorize the base image based user instructions to obtain a vectorized base image. In some cases it may be possible that some of the subsections present in the image may not get vectorized due to wrong orientation and or bad quality of the base image. In such cases the vectorized base image may comprise vectorized subsections and at least one non vectorized subsection. In case all the subsections are vectorized the system may identify the vectorized base image as an output vectorized image and provide it to the user.

Further the vectorized base image comprising the vectorized subsections and the at least one non vectorized subsections may be obtained by the system for real time vectorization of the non vectorized subsections. In one implementation the system may directly obtained the vectorized base image from a repository upon receiving the user instructions for vectorization.

Thereafter the display module may display the vectorized base image on a display screen of the camera . Once the vectorized base image is displayed the user may select at least one subsections from the non vectorized subsections for vectorization. The user selection may be provided as a part of user feedback to the display module . In an example the display module may receive the user feedback having coordinates of the at least one non vectorized subsection to be vectorized in the vectorized base image. In another example the display module may determine the at least one non vectorized subsection to be vectorized based on a touch input detected by a touch sensitive display of the camera .

Upon receiving the user feedback comprising the selection of the non vectorized subsections the capture module may receive a subsection image from the camera corresponding to the at least one non vectorized subsection. The subsection image comprises the at least non vectorized subsection selected by the user. In an example the capture module may instruct the camera to capture the subsection image comprising the non vectorized subsections selected by the user. In another example the user may control the camera to focus and capture the subsection image comprising the non vectorized subsections. The subsection image may be then provided to the capture module .

Subsequently the vectorization module may perform vectorization on the subsection image to vectorize the non vectorized subsections selected by the user. Once the non vectorized subsections are vectorized the merge module may overlay the vectorized subsections on the at least one non vectorized subsections of the vectorized base image. Thereafter the merge module may merge the vectorized base image with the vectorized subsections to obtain an output vectorized image. In an example the output vectorized image may comprise the vectorized subsections requested by the user. In case one of the subsections is still not vectorized the system may again capture a subsection image to that particular subsection and repeat the process of vectorization and merging to obtain the output vectorized image. Once the user confirms that all the subsections requested by him her are vectorized the system may store the output vectorized image in the image data . Further the all the images captured during the real time vectorization may be stored in the image data . In this manner real time vectorization of an image is performed based on the user feedback.

In one implementation the user may select all the non vectorized subsections simultaneously for vectorization as explained above. In another implementation the user may select the non vectorized subsection one at a time for vectorization. This implementation is discussed in more detail in conjunction with .

The system receives the base image and performs the vectorization. Thereafter a first vectorized base image is obtained as shown in the . The first vectorized base image illustrates outer boundary of the house that has been vectorized. However as shown in the other parts or objects of the base image are still not vectorized in the first vectorized base image . The system may then receive the user feedback on the first vectorized base image by displaying it on the display screen of the camera .

Thereafter the user may select a non vectorized subsection i.e. pillar in this case to be vectorized as shown in . The illustrates a first subsection image comprising the pillars captured by the camera .

Subsequently the system may vectorize the first subsection image to obtain a first vectorized subsection image . The illustrates the pillar that have been vectorized in the first vectorized subsection image .

Once the first vectorized base image and the first vectorized subsection image are obtained the system may overlay the pillars that are vectorized in the first vectorized subsection image on the pillars of the first vectorized base image . Subsequently the first vectorized base image is merged with the first vectorized subsection image to obtain a second vectorized base image as shown in . The is the second vectorized base image having the outer boundary and the pillars that are vectorized.

Further the user may want to vectorize the windows that are not vectorized in both the first vectorized base image and the second vectorized base image . The system may then capture a second subsection image based on the user feedback as shown in .

Thereafter the system may perform vectorization on the second subsection image to obtain a second vectorized subsection image as shown in . The Figure g illustrates the second vectorized subsection image comprising the windows that have been vectorized.

Further the system may merge the second vectorized base image with the second vectorized subsection image to obtain a third vectorized base image as shown in . The illustrates the third vectorized base image comprising the outer boundary the pillars and the windows that are vectorized. Once the system receives the user feedback indicating that there are no more subsections to be vectorized the system may store the third vectorized base image as the output vectorized image in the image data for future usage.

Thus the present subject matter discloses a real time vectorization of the image captured through a device comprising the camera . The present subject matter performs the vectorization based on the user feedback and allows user to select the subsections to be vectorized in the image. In this manner the present subject matter yields better vectorization levels as compared to vectorization of pre captured images.

The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The method may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communication network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method or alternative methods. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

With reference to at block a vectorized base image is received. In an example the vectorized base image may be received by the display module from the camera . In another example the display module may receive the vectorized base image from the image data having a plurality of vectorized and non vectorized images. In one implementation the system may receive a base image instead of the vectorized base image and vectorize the base image before providing to the display module . In said implementation the system may initiate a vectorization mode before capturing or receiving the base image from the camera . In an example the base image may comprise subsections that are not vectorized. Thereafter the system may perform the vectorization of the base image to obtain the vectorized base image. In an example the vectorized base image may have vectorized subsections and at least one non vectorized subsection that is to be vectorized by the system .

At block the vectorized base image is displayed on a display screen of the camera . In an example the display module may instruct the camera to display the vectorized base image on the display screen. The display module displays the vectorized image on the display screen to receive a user feedback on the vectorized base image.

At block the user feedback is obtained on the vectorized base image from the user. The user feedback may comprises user selection of at least one non vectorized subsection in the vectorized base image. In an example the display module may determine the user selection of the at least one non vectorized subsection in the vectorized base image by obtaining coordinates of the at least one non vectorized subsection. For instance the display module may receive at least three coordinates for defining a subsection region such as 2 1 1 3 and 4 2 considering center of the vectorized base image as origin. In another example the display module may obtain the user selection by determining the at least one non vectorized subsection based on a touch input detected by a touch sensitive display of the camera . Further in an example where the user feedback indicates that there are no more subsections to be vectorized in the vectorized base image the system may ascertain the vectorized base image as the output vectorized image and store in the image data .

At block a subsection image comprising the at least one non vectorized subsection selected based on the user feedback is received from the camera . In an example the capture module may instruct the camera to focus on the at least one non vectorized subsection selected by the user and capture the subsection image.

At block vectorization on the subsection image is performed to obtain vectorized subsections. In an example the vectorization module receives the subsection image from the capture module and perform vectorization on the subsection image. In this manner the vectorization module vectorizes the non vectorized subsections selected by the user and obtain their corresponding vectorized subsections.

At block the vectorized subsections are overlaid on the at least one non vectorized subsection of the vectorized base image. In an example the merge module may overlay the vectorized subsections present in the vectorized subsection image on the subsections of the vectorized base image that are not vectorized.

At block the vectorized base image is merged with the vectorized subsections to obtain an output vectorized image. In an example the merge module may obtain the vectorized base image and merge with vectorized subsections to obtain the output vectorized image. The output vectorized image may comprise all the subsections in a vectorized form that are selected by the user. Further once it is identified that all the subsections selected by the user are vectorized and are present in the output vectorized image the merge module may store the output vectorized image in the image data for future usage.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interlace DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus strollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described systems and methods for performing real time vectorization. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

