---

title: Systems and methods for conducting transactions with a customer using text messages
abstract: The illustrative embodiments described herein provide systems and methods for conducting transactions with a customer using text messages. In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a first text message from a mobile communication device associated with a customer. The first text message includes a request from the customer to receive one or more text messages from a vendor. The method also includes adding the customer to a set of consenting customers in a customer database in response to receiving the first text message. The set of consenting customer including customers that consent to receiving text messages from the vendor. The method also includes sending a second text message to the mobile communication device. The second text message is associated with a service offered by the vendor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607345&OS=09607345&RS=09607345
owner: West Corporation
number: 09607345
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150922
---
This application is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 476 801 filed Sep. 4 2014 and entitled CONDUCTING TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN A VENDOR AND A CUSTOMER USING TEXT MESSAGES which is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 089 927 filed Nov. 26 2013 and entitled CONDUCTING TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN A VENDOR AND A CUSTOMER USING TEXT MESSAGES now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 839 311 which is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 726 512 filed Mar. 18 2010 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONDUCTING TRANSACTIONS WITH A CUSTOMER USING TEXT MESSAGES now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 621 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for conducting a transaction. More particularly the present invention relates to conducting transactions with a customer using text messages.

Mobile communication devices are being used to accomplish an increasing number of tasks in our daily lives. For example because mobile communication devices can be carried by their user they can provide an effective means for vendors to reach potential or existing customers. Recent years have also seen increased usage of text messages including short messaging service SMS by or between mobile communication devices. Currently vendors may fail to effectively utilize text messaging to advertise sell or otherwise conduct transactions related to their products or services. Governmental restrictions on text messaging between vendors and potential or existing customers may further hinder a vendor s usage of text messaging to conduct transactions related to their products or services. Currently available systems may fail to address this and other issues and fail to provide an effective and convenient system by which to conduct transactions between a vendor and their potential or existing customers using text messages.

The illustrative embodiments described herein are directed to a data processing system and in particular to systems and methods for conducting transactions with a customer using text messages. In one embodiment a method includes receiving a first text message from a mobile communication device associated with a customer. The first text message includes a request from the customer to receive one or more text messages from a vendor. The method also includes adding the customer to a set of consenting customers in a customer database in response to receiving the first text message. The set of consenting customer including customers that consent to receiving text messages from the vendor. The method also includes sending a second text message to the mobile communication device. The second text message is associated with a service offered by the vendor.

In another embodiment a method includes receiving a first text message from a mobile communication device associated with a customer. The first text message indicates the customer s consent to be contacted by a pay per view programming provider via text messaging. The method also includes adding the customer to a set of consenting customers in a customer database in response to receiving the first text message. The set of consenting customers includes customers consenting to the receipt of text messages from the pay per view programming provider. The method also includes sending a second text message to the mobile communication device. The second text message is associated with pay per view programming offered by the pay per view programming provider.

In another embodiment a text message based transaction system includes a text message transaction manager for conducting transactions with a customer using text messages. The text message transaction manager includes a customer database comprising a set of consenting customers that consent to receiving text messages from a vendor. The text message transaction manager also includes a customer intake module to receive text messages from mobile communication devices. Each of the mobile communication devices is associated with a respective customer. The customer intake module adds the customer to the set of consenting customers in the customer database when the customer intake module receives a first text message from the customer. The first text message includes a request from the customer to receive one or more text messages from the vendor. The text message transaction manager also includes a transaction engine to conduct a transaction with the customer using text messages.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a text message based transaction system includes a mobile communication device that may be used by a customer to exchange text messages with a text message transaction manager . Using the mobile communication device the customer may send a text message to the text message transaction manager indicating the customer s consent for the text message transaction manager to send one or more text messages to the customer related to products or services offered by a vendor . The customer may be a past current or potential customer for vendor . The vendor may be any provider of products or services non limiting examples of which include a pay per view programming provider a seller of goods a data provider a professional or consumer service etc. Unless otherwise indicated as used herein or does not require mutual exclusivity. As used herein including in the claims any reference to a service offered by a vendor also encompasses products offered by that vendor and any reference to a product offered by a vendor also encompasses services offered by that vendor.

According to an illustrative embodiment the text message transaction manager determines when the customer should or should not receive text messages related to the vendor . For example as indicated above the customer may send a text message to the text message transaction manager indicating his or her consent to be contacted regarding the vendor via text message data communication . When the customer indicates his or her consent the customer or his or her vendor account may be identified and added to a set of consenting customers stored in a customer database not shown maintained by the text message transaction manager process additional details regarding such a customer database is described below. As used herein the term set encompasses a quantity of one or more. Conversely the customer may desire to cease receiving text messages regarding the vendor . If so the customer may send a text message to the text message transaction manager that requests the text message transaction manager to cease sending text messages regarding the vendor to the customer s mobile communication device .

After the customer has indicated his or her consent to be contacted by the text message transaction manager the text message transaction manager may send or exchange the text messages to or with the customer to conduct any type of transaction related to the vendor . Non limiting examples of the types of transactions that may be conducted using the text messages include the purchase of products or services from the vendor advertising related to the vendor individual or special offers for the customer regarding the vendor s products or services adding or removing the customer as a member of a group associated with the vendor questions feedback or surveys regarding the vendors products or services providing technical help or other support to the customer or any other communication related to the vendor that is able to be executed using the text messages .

As one non limiting example of a transaction after the customer sends a text message to the text message transaction manager indicating that the customer is willing to receive text messages regarding the vendor s products or services the text message transaction manager may send a text message to the customer that includes an offer to purchase the vendor s products or service data communication . The customer may then respond by sending a text message to the text message transaction manager accepting the offer to purchase the vendor s product or service data communication . In the course of a text message transaction the text message transaction manager may conduct other text message transactions that are incidental to the primary transaction such as verifying that the customer has an active account with the vendor obtaining a password from the customer so that the customer may access his or her account ensuring that the customer has consented to receiving text messages related to the vendor from the text message transaction manager ensuring that the customer is not subject to any restrictions with respect to the vendor prompting or receiving a selection from the customer regarding details of the product or service etc. After receiving an agreement from the customer to purchase the product or service from the vendor the text message transaction manager may request the vendor to provide the product or service to the customer data communication . The vendor may then provide the product or service to the customer transfer .

The mobile communication device may be any device capable of sending or receiving a text message. For example the mobile communication device may be a cellular phone e.g. a smart phone a walkie talkie a computer e.g. a laptop netbook tablet computer or minicomputer a personal digital assistant a digital music player a digital reader a portable gaming device a web browsing device a media player or any other electronic device that is mobile and capable of text messaging functionality. In the embodiment in which the mobile communication device is a cellular phone the mobile communication device may be any make or model such as an iPhone or other cellular phone made by Apple Inc. a Nexus One or other cellular phone made by Google a Droid or other cellular phone made by Motorola a BlackBerry or other cellular phone made by Research in Motion Limited Corporation a smartphone made by Samsung or any other type make or model of cellular phone or smartphone capable of text messaging functionality.

The text message transaction manager may be implemented on one or more text message transaction servers . The text message transaction server may be located at a data center or other location remote from the mobile communication device . In one embodiment the text message transaction server may be located at or near the vendor such as on the vendor s premises. The vendor may include one or more vendor servers . In one embodiment some or all of the functionality of the text message transaction server and the vendor server may be combined into a single server or data processing system. In examples in which the product or service offered by the vendor is sendable or otherwise manageable by a data processing system the vendor server may send the product or service to the customer or otherwise perform a transaction related to the product or service and the customer .

The techniques technologies or media by which the components of the text message based transaction system intercommunicate are numerous. For example the text message based transaction system or any portion thereof may be part of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAP or any other network type. Data communication medium between the vendor and the text message transaction manager may be any medium through which data can be communicated. For example the data communication medium may be wired or wireless data connections and may utilize a virtual private network VPN multi protocol label switching MPLS the Internet or any other data communication media.

The data communication medium between the text message transaction manager and the base station may be of the same or similar type as any of the non limiting examples provided for the data communication medium . Wireless communication between the mobile communication device and the base station may utilize any wireless standard for communicating data such as CDMA e.g. cdmaOne or CDMA2000 GSM 3G 4G Edge an over the air network Bluetooth etc. Any of the transactions occurring in the text message based transaction system may be performed using secure SSL transactions.

In one example the text message based transaction system may utilize the Internet with any combination of the data communication media representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different illustrative embodiments.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of the text message transaction manager includes elements that facilitate the use of text messages to conduct transactions or otherwise facilitate communication between the mobile communication device and the vendor . Components of that are analogous to components in have been shown by indexing the reference numerals by 100. The text message transaction manager may conduct transactions for any number of vendors and any number of customers and their respective mobile communication devices.

In one embodiment the text message transaction manager includes a customer intake module that receives text messages from the mobile communication device and that manages or co manages a customer database . The customer database includes a set of consenting customers . The consenting customers include customers that consent to receiving text messages from the text message transaction manger that relate to the vendor .

The customer intake module may determine whether to add the customer to the consenting customers based on a text message from the customer that requests or otherwise consents to the sending of text messages related to the vendor to the mobile communication device . By way of non limiting example the customer may text the word join to a predetermined number such as 223322 to consent to the receipt of text messages from the text message transaction manager . Of course the content of the text message that the customer may send to indicate his or her intent to join the consenting customers may vary.

Upon receiving the text message to join the consenting customers from the customer a customer identification module may then identify the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer . In one example the customer identification module may identify the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer using automatic number identification ANI . If the customer identification module is unable to identify the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer using automatic number identification the text message transaction manager may send a text message to the mobile communication device prompting the customer to enter account identification data such as a phone number a name an account number a credit card number or any other data that could identify the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer . A non limiting example of a text message prompting the customer to enter account identification data is shown in . The text message like other text messages described in the illustrative embodiments may be displayed on a graphical user interface of the mobile communication device . The customer identification module may then receive a text message from the mobile communication device that includes the account identification data. The customer identification module may then identify the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer based on the account identification data.

In one embodiment if the customer identification module is unable to identify the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer using automatic number identification the account identification data or any other identification method the text message transaction manager may send a referral text message to the mobile indication device . An example of the referral text message is shown in and may include a phone number a website or any other contact information that allows the customer to seek additional assistance related to the vendor . The example referral text message or any of the text messages described herein may also refer to a group associated with the vendor such as a Text to Save Club to which the customer is considered to belong when he or she consents to receiving text messages from the text message transaction manager .

Once the customer identification module identifies the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer the customer intake module may add the customer to the consenting customers in the customer database . For example the customer intake module may add a customer record for the customer in the set of consenting customers stored by the customer database . Inclusion of the customer record in the consenting customers allows the corresponding customer to be contacted by the text message transaction manager via text messages. As described above the customer record may be added to the consenting customers in response to a text message or other communication from the customer that indicates his or her consent to receiving text messages related to the vendor .

In one embodiment the customer may be associated with a text message consent flag that has a changeable value based on whether the customer consents to receiving text messages related to the vendor . For example the text message consent flag may be changeable between a first value such as yes and a second value such as no. The text message consent flag may be set to the first value when the customer consents to receiving text messages related to the vendor . Conversely the text message consent flag may be set to the second value when the customer does not consent to receiving text messages related to the vendor . The text message transaction manager may determine at any time whether or not the customer consents to receiving text messages related to the vendor by determining the value of the text message consent flag .

Upon adding the customer to the consenting customers the text message transaction manager may send a congratulatory text message to the mobile communication device . A non limiting example of the congratulatory text message is shown in . The congratulatory text message shown in relates specifically to the vendor that is a pay per view programming provider. In the non limiting example of the congratulatory text message also includes an offer to receive an advertised movie and invites the customer to respond with a text message containing the term yes to receive the advertised movie. Details regarding purchase transactions managed by the text message transaction manager are described below. The congratulatory text message also includes a notice to the customer that text messaging and data rates may apply to the text messages exchanged between the mobile communication device and the text message transaction manager .

The congratulatory text message also instructs the customer to reply with a text message containing the term help to receive help from the text message transaction manager or the vendor . If the customer replies with a text message including the word help the text message transaction manager may send a text message that provides the customer with details on how to obtain help from the text message transaction manager or the vendor . An example of the text message that provides such help to the customer is shown in .

The congratulatory text message shown in also includes instructions on how the customer may request to cease receiving text messages from the text message transaction manager . In the example of the customer may be instructed to send a text message including the word stop to be removed from the consenting customers . Details regarding the removal of the customer from the consenting customers are provided below. In one embodiment the portion of the congratulatory text message related to text message and data rates help and text message cancellation may be included in any or all of the text messages described in the illustrative embodiments.

In one embodiment the customer intake module may also determine whether the customer has an active account with the vendor . Determining whether the customer has an active account with the vendor may occur at any time such as before or after a purchase or other transaction facilitated by the text message transaction manager or after the identification of the customer or a vendor account associated with the customer by the customer identification module . In the case in which the customer is not found to have an active account with the vendor the text message transaction manager may send a referral text message such as the referral text message shown in .

In one embodiment the customer intake module may also be able to determine whether or not the consenting customers includes the customer such as by checking whether the consenting customers includes the customer record . Such a determination may be used to check whether the customer has previously been added to the consenting customers . To prevent adding the customer to the consenting customers more than once the customer intake module may add the customer to the consenting customers in response to determining that the consenting customers does not include the customer . If the customer is found to have been previously added to the consenting customers a text message such as the text message shown in may be sent to the mobile communication device .

The text message transaction manager may also include a transaction engine that conducts one or more transactions with the customer using text messages. The transactions that are conducted by the transaction engine with the customer may be executed after the customer has been added to the consenting customers in the customer database . Examples of the types of transactions that may be conducted by the text message transaction manager have been provided above. In the non limiting example in which the vendor is a pay per view programming provider the transactions conducted by the transaction engine may be associated with pay per view programming offered by the pay per view programming provider.

In one embodiment the transaction conducted by the transaction engine includes a purchase of products or services from the vendor such as the purchase of a pay per view television program from a pay per view programming provider. The transaction may also include an offer such as a special rate or other promotion communicated to the customer via a text message. An example of an offer to the customer to purchase a service is shown in the congratulatory text message in . In the congratulatory text message the customer is invited to purchase or otherwise receive a television program in this case an advertised movie from a vendor of television programming such as a pay per view programming provider. In response the customer may accept the offer for a product or service offered by the vendor and this acceptance may be communicated to the text message transaction manager by a text message. In the example of the congratulatory text message in the customer may indicate his or her acceptance of purchasing the advertised movie by sending a text message containing the word yes to the text message transaction manager .

In the course of accepting an offer or conducting any other transaction related to the vendor the customer may be prompted to enter a password associated with his or her account. The transaction engine may determine whether access to a vendor account for the customer is associated with a password. In those cases in which a password is required for the customer to access his or her account a text message such as a text message in may be sent to the customer to prompt the customer to enter his or her password. In response the customer may send a text message to the text message transaction manager containing the customer s password. If the customer provides the correct password the customer may be allowed access to his or her account and be allowed to proceed with his or her transaction such as a purchase transaction. If the transaction engine determines that an incorrect password has been sent by the customer the transaction engine may send a referral message such as the referral message in to the mobile communication device .

In one embodiment the transaction engine may include a parameter selection module that determines a parameter for a product or service for which a transaction conducted by the transaction engine pertains. For example the parameter selection module may allow the customer to choose a parameter for the product or service that he or she purchases from the vendor . A parameter may be any feature or element of a product or service from the vendor . In the non limiting example in which the vendor is a pay per view programming provider the parameter selection module may allow the customer to select a program preference for the pay per view television program purchased by the customer . For example the program preference may be a program quality preference that is selectable between standard definition and high definition for the pay per view television program purchased by the customer .

To facilitate the selection of a program preference the transaction engine may send a text message to the mobile communication device that prompts the customer to select the program preference. A non limiting example of the text message that may be used to prompt the customer to select a program preference is shown in . In the text message instructs the customer to press 1 for standard definition and 2 for high definition. The text message also includes the prices for standard and high definition programming. In response the customer may send a text message to the text message transaction manager that includes the selected program preference for the pay per view television program or other product or service offered by the vendor . In the example of the customer may send a text message to the text message transaction manager that includes either a 1 or a 2 depending upon his or her selection for standard or high definition programming. Of course the types of parameters that may be selected by the customer for the product or service purchased by the customer may depend upon the product or service offered by the vendor .

In the embodiment in which the transaction relates to a purchase of products or services from the vendor the transaction engine may request the vendor to provide the product or service to the customer after the customer has purchased the product or service. In one embodiment prior to requesting the vendor to provide the product or service to the customer the transaction engine may check the text message consent flag to ensure that the customer has elected to receive text messages related to the vendor . In the case in which the vendor is a pay per view programming provider the transaction engine may request the vendor to provide the customer access to the purchased or otherwise selected pay per view television program which has program parameters determined or otherwise selected in conjunction with the parameter selection module . Upon receiving the request from the text message transaction manager to provide the product or service to the customer the vendor may provide the product or service to the customer . The transaction engine may also send a confirmation text message to the customer an example of which is shown in . The confirmation message in may also include details regarding the product or service purchased by the customer .

The text message transaction manager may also include a customer cancellation module that is able to remove the customer from the consenting customers in the customer database . The customer cancellation module may remove the customer from the consenting customers when the customer cancellation module receives a text message from the customer that includes a request from the customer to cease receiving text messages related to the vendor . In one example the customer cancellation module may remove or delete the customer record from the consenting customers . When the customer cancellation module removes the customer from the consenting customers a cancellation text message may be sent to mobile communication device an example of which is shown in .

In some cases the text message transaction manager may not recognize accept or otherwise be able to interpret a text message from the customer . If so the text message transaction manager may notify the customer via text message of the text message transaction manager s inability to recognize the customer s text message. An example of a text message that informs the customer that the text message transaction manager is unable to recognize the customer s text message is shown in .

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a process for conducting transactions with a customer using text messages which may be executed by a text message transaction manager includes determining whether a text message from a customer requesting to receive text messages from a vendor is received step . If the process determines that a text message from the customer requesting to receive text messages from the vendor is not received the process waits until a text message requesting to receive text messages from the vendor is received from the customer step . The process then proceeds to step .

Returning to step if the process determines that a text message from the customer requesting to receive text messages from the vendor is received the process adds the customer to a set of consenting customers and the customer database step . The process sends a text message associated with a service offered by the vendor to a mobile communication device associated with the customer step .

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a process for conducting transactions with a customer using text messages which may be executed by a text message transaction manager includes determining whether a text message from the customer requesting to receive text messages from the vendor is received step . If the process determines that a text message from the customer requesting to receive text messages from the vendor is not received the process waits until a text message requesting to receive text messages from the vendor is received from the customer step . The process then proceeds to step .

Returning to step if the process determines that a text message from the customer requesting to receive text messages from the vendor is received the process adds the customer to a set of consenting customers in a customer database step . The process sends a text message to the mobile communication device offering the customer a service provided by the vendor step . The process determines whether a text message from the mobile communication device associated with the customer accepting the offer is received step . If the process determines that a text message from the mobile communication device accepting the offer is received the process requests the vendor to provide the service to the customer step .

Returning to step if the process determines that a text message from the mobile communication device accepting the offer is not received the process determines whether a text message from the customer requesting to cease receiving text messages from the vendor is received step . If the process determines a text message from the customer requesting to cease receiving text messages from the vendor is not received the process returns to step the process may wait any amount of time before returning to step . Returning to step if the process determines that a text message from the customer requesting to cease receiving text messages from the vendor is received the process removes the customer from the set of consenting customers step . The process then terminates.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a help process that is executable by a text message transaction manager includes determining whether a text message from a customer requesting help is received step . If the process determines that a text message from the customer requesting help is received the process sends a text message to the mobile communication device associated with the customer providing help instructions step . Returning to step if the process determines that a text message from the customer requesting help is not received the process then terminates.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a process for conducting transactions with a customer using text messages which may be executed by a text message transaction manager is shown. The process shown in may be used when the vendor is a provider of data or television programs such as a per per view programming provider. The process includes receiving a text message from a customer requesting to receive text messages from the vendor step . The process determines whether the customer account is identified using automatic number identification step . If the process determines that the customer account is not identified using automatic number identification the process prompts the customer for a phone number associated with the account step . The process then determines whether the customer account is identified using the phone number and or automatic number identification step . If the process determines that the customer account is not identified using the phone number and or automatic number identification the process sends a referral text message to the customer step . Returning to step if the process determines that the customer account is identified using the phone number and or automatic number identification the process proceeds to step .

Returning to step if the process determines that the customer account is identified using automatic number identification the process determines whether the customer account is active step . If the process determines that the customer account is not active the process proceeds to step and sends a referral message. If the process determines that the customer account is active the process determines whether the customer is already a member step . For example the process may determine whether the customer is already a member of a group or club that participates in transactions with the vendor using text messages. If the process determines that the customer is already a member the process sends a text message related to the customer s pre existing membership to the customer step . The process then proceeds to step .

Returning to step if the process determines that the customer is not already a member the process adds the customer to a set of consenting customers in a customer database step . The process may then send a congratulatory text message step . The process then sends a text message offer to purchase a service from the vendor step .

The process determines whether a text message consent flag is set to yes step . If the process determines the text message consent flag is not set to yes the process may then send a referral text message step . If the process determines that the text message consent flag is set to yes the process determines if there is a primary smartcard step . For example the process may determine whether there is a cable card or smartcard in a cable box associated with the customer to facilitate any transactions between the pay per view programming provider and the customer such as providing the customer access to a purchased television program or movie.

If the process determines that there is not a primary smartcard the process may proceed to step and send a referral text message. If the process determines that there is a primary smartcard the process may determine if there is a password on the customer s account step . If the process determines that there is not a password on the customer s account the process may proceed to step .

Returning to step if the process determines that there is a password on the customer s account the process may prompt the customer for the password using a text message step . The process may then determine whether the password matches a password associated with the customer s account step . If the process determines that the password does not match the process may then proceed to step and send a referral text message. If the process determines that the password does match the process may then check a limit associated with the customer or the customer s account and determine if the customer will exceed a pay per view limit step . If the process determines that the customer will exceed a pay per view limit the process may proceed to step and send a referral text message. If the process determines that the customer will not exceed a pay per view limit the process may prompt the customer select standard or high definition step . The process may request a vendor to provide the purchased or requested service to the customer step . The process may determine whether the service has been successfully added to the customer s account step . Step may include adding the service to the customer s account such as through an application programming interface associated with the vendor. If the process determines that the service was not successfully added to the customer s account the process may proceed step and send a referral text message. If the process determines that the service was successfully added to the customer s account the process may send a thank you text message to the customer step .

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the different depicted embodiments illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of some possible implementations of apparatus methods and computer program products. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified function or functions. In some alternative implementations the function or functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example in some cases two blocks shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

Referring to a block diagram of a computing device is shown in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. The computing device may be the mobile communication device or described in respectively. In another embodiment the text message transaction manager or described in respectively may be implemented on the computing device . Computer usable program code or instructions implementing the processes used in the illustrative embodiments may be located on the computing device . The computing device includes a communications fabric which provides communications between a processor unit a memory a persistent storage a communications unit an input output I O unit and a display .

The processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into the memory . The processor unit may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi processor core depending on the particular implementation. Further the processor unit may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example the processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

The memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. The persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example the persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example the persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by the persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for the persistent storage .

The communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or communication devices. In these examples the communications unit may be a network interface card. The communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communication links.

The input output unit allows for the input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to the computing device . For example the input output unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard and mouse. Further the input output unit may send output to a processing device. In the case in which the computing device is a cellular phone the input output unit may also allow devices to be connected to the cellular phone such as microphones headsets and controllers. The display provides a mechanism to display information to a user such as a graphical user interface. The display may be used to display the text messages described in the illustrative embodiments.

Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on the persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into the memory for execution by the processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by the processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as the memory . These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in the processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or tangible computer readable media such as the memory or the persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on a computer readable media and may be loaded onto or transferred to the computing device for execution by the processor unit . The program code and the computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one embodiment the computer program product is the text message transaction manager or described in respectively. In this embodiment the program code may include computer usable program code capable of receiving a first text message from a mobile communication device associated with a customer. The first text message may include a request from the customer to receive one or more text messages associated with a vendor. The program code may also include computer usable program code capable of adding the customer to a set of consenting customers in a customer database in response to receiving the first text message. The set of consenting customers may include customers that consent to receiving text messages from the vendor. The program code may also include computer usable program code capable of sending a second text message to the mobile communication device. The second text message may be associated with a service offered by the vendor.

In another embodiment the program code may include computer usable program code capable of receiving a first text message from a mobile communication device associated with a customer. The first text message may indicate the customer s consent to be contacted by a pay per view programming provider via text messaging. The program code may also include computer usable program code capable of adding the customer to a set of consenting customers in a customer database in response to receiving the first text message. The set of consenting customer may include customers consenting to the receipt of text messages from the pay per view programming provider. The program code may also include computer usable program code capable of sending a second text message to the mobile communication device. The second text message may be associated with pay per view programming offered by the pay per view programming provider. Any combination of the above mentioned computer usable program code may be implemented in the program code and any functions of the illustrative embodiments may be implemented in the program code .

In one example the computer readable media may be in a tangible form such as for example an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of the persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of the persistent storage . In a tangible form the computer readable media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive or a flash memory that is connected to the computing device . The tangible form of the computer readable media is also referred to as computer recordable storage media.

Alternatively the program code may be transferred to the computing device from the computer readable media through a communication link to the communications unit or through a connection to the input output unit . The communication link or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples. The computer readable media also may take the form of non tangible media such as communication links or wireless transmissions containing the program code .

The different components illustrated for the computing device are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for computing device . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown.

As one example a storage device in the computing device is any hardware apparatus that may store data. The memory the persistent storage and the computer readable media are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement the communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally the communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example the memory or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in the communications fabric .

The principles of the present invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In one embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and other computer readable code.

Furthermore the principles of the present invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

As used herein including in the claims the terms first second third etc. . . . used in relation to text messages e.g. first text message second text message etc. are for reference or identification purposes only and these terms are not intended to describe or suggest a number order source purpose or substantive quality for any text message for which such a term is used.

The previous detailed description is of a small number of embodiments for implementing the invention and is not intended to be limiting in scope. One of skill in this art will immediately envisage the methods and variations used to implement this invention in other areas than those described in detail. The following claims set forth a number of the embodiments of the invention disclosed with greater particularity.

