---

title: Systems and methods for sharing of media sessions within a social network
abstract: In one embodiment, a computing device identifies a set of second users to participate in an ongoing media session which was initiated by a first user. Each of the identified second users has a social-networking relationship with the first user, or a social-networking relationship with a media item of the ongoing media session. The computing device provisions the ongoing media session to second users, so that the second users join the ongoing media session in progress at the current point in time of the ongoing media session. The computing device sends a notification to the first user indicating that the second users have joined the ongoing media session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596273&OS=09596273&RS=09596273
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09596273
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150220
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 542 549 filed 5 Jul. 2012.

The present invention relates to the field of social networking More particularly the present invention provides a technique for users of a social network to share media sessions with each other.

Internet social networks have become a significant phenomenon. Social networks allow an Internet user to create an account and a user profile and interact with other users of the social network. A social network user can share content and interact with content shared by other users. A social network may also offer chat functionality by which users may interact with each other in real time. Social network users typically assemble a group of friends or followers with whom they interact. Once approved the friendship typically gives both users access to each other s profiles and the content posted on them. Content postings and other user activities may generate stories that are visible to other users. A user may view stories generated by the activities of his friends by accessing their profiles individually or by accessing his news feed an interface that displays stories from several users and summarizes the activities of the user s friends. Friends can comment on share or otherwise interact with each other s stories. In this way social networks allow users to mimic real life interactions in the context of an online community.

A social network may provide users with increasingly sophisticated functionality. Early social networks offered little more than a simple interface for users to communicate and post messages. Now users may share different types of content and interact with each other s content in a variety of ways. In addition as technology has evolved and social network usage has grown tools for third party services have been introduced to make their functionality and content available within the social network.

Initially social network users could only access static content such as text and images and could do so only using features that were directly provided by the social network. A social network now may allow users to share and interact with dynamic content such as music videos and games. In addition to providing such content and functionality themselves a social network may collaborate with third party entities to bring other popular services to social network users. Many social networks provide application programming interfaces APIs that allow third party entities to deliver their content and functionality through social networking portals. Among these third party entities are digital media providers.

To facilitate the sharing of media sessions by users within a social network a social networking system provides for a second user of a social networking system a reference about a first media session for a first user of the social networking system. The social networking system receives a request to participate in the first media session from the second user and facilitates provision of a second media session for the second user that is synchronized with the first media session.

According to an embodiment the first media session includes at least one of an audio stream a video stream and a gaming session. The first media session may include media from at least one of an audio application a video application and a gaming application. The social networking system may further facilitate provision of the first media session for the first user. The social networking system may further identify the second user to the first user in response to the facilitating. The media of the first media session may be selected by the first user. The social networking system may further present the first media session and the second media session as one session to the first user and the second user. The first user and the second user may be friends within the social networking system.

According to an embodiment the social networking system may further provide for a third user of the social networking system the reference about the first media session receive a request to participate in the first media session from the third user and facilitate provision of a third media session for the third user that is synchronized with the first media session. The social networking system may cause the reference to be displayed as a snippet or as a story. The social networking system may associate the reference with a resource of the social networking system wherein the resource includes at least one of a news feed a ticker and a chat interface. The receiving may include receiving a user interaction with a component of the reference.

According to an embodiment the social networking system determines whether the second user satisfies a criterion before the providing. The criterion may pertain to at least one privacy setting of the first user. The facilitating may include collaborating with a media service to provide the first media session for the first user wherein the criterion pertains to availability of the media service to the second user. The social networking system may further cause termination of the second media session when a media item in the first media session ends. The social network may further cause transitions of the second media session to be synchronized with transitions of the first media session.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device may interact with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a Java Script compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the Silverlight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable customization of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device . In one embodiment the user device also includes a news feed rendering module .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log an authorization server and a media module . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user account store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user account store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user account store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user account store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user account store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user account store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user account store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user account store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user account store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

Users of the social networking system may learn of each other s activities in a number of ways. As described above each user activity within the social networking system may prompt the social networking system to generate a visual representation of the activity in the form of a story. A story may appear on a user s profile and in other users news feeds. In addition users may learn of each other s activities by interacting within a chat interface. Chat functionality allows users of the social networking system to communicate with each other in real time. A social networking chat interface may include a story indicating a chatting user s status or the activity he is engaged in at the moment. The story may include links to the user s profile a link to the content being posted and a link to the functionality or service that the user has accessed. Any type of data pertaining to an activity may be included in a story.

Among the activities that users may now engage in are sharing of and participation in digital media streams and other interactive and non interactive media sessions. Users may access media services such as audio services video services gaming services or other services for providing interactive or non interactive media via the social networking system . The services may be provided directly by the media module of the social networking system or by a third party via the social networking system . A user s accessing a media service may generate a story such as the story depicted in .

Among these media related activities that may generate stories are various audio related activities. Users may upload music tracks assemble playlists access streaming music from external sources or listen to radio channels through the social networking system . A user accessing such music related functionality may generate a story that becomes visible to other users most notably the user s friends. According to one embodiment of the invention by selecting a link within the story a user s friends may also access the music related feature or content that the user has accessed. The user s friends may listen to the same audio track that the user is listening to. According to another embodiment a song to which one user may join another user or other users in listening may be synchronized and played identically for the users so that each user hears the same thing at the same time. Synchronization in this manner allows the users to meaningfully chat or communicate about portions of the song as they are played. In an embodiment a song may be played for users in a manner that is not synchronized.

User Bo Harbaugh may be friends with user Lloyd Hoke or may have otherwise elected to receive updates on Lloyd Hoke s activity. Bo Harbaugh s positioning a mouse pointer over the snippet reveals story which contains components and that may be analogous to the components and respectively.

Returning to the audio playback application includes a window indicating which other friends of Lloyd Hoke are listening along with him. As shown Lloyd Hoke is joined by users Junior Roundtree Desmond Woodson and Bo Harbaugh in listening to Victors . According to one embodiment users Junior Roundtree Desmond Woodson and Bo Harbaugh are all friends of user Lloyd Hoke but need not be friends of each other.

The examples illustrated in involve an audio streaming session. However a user may participate in a media session in which any kind of interactive or non interactive media is provided. Other forms of non interactive media include video. The social networking system may provide functionality for users to upload and share videos which may then be shared with other users. Alternatively the social networking system may allow third party video hosting services to stream videos via the social networking system . Other forms of interactive media include games. The social networking system may provide functionality for users to play games. Alternatively the social networking system may allow third party gaming services to provide their games via the social networking system . Users may play games alone with each other or against each other. According to one embodiment a user s video watching or game playing activity may be described in a story snippet chat interface icon or other reference within an interface of the social networking system . A media session may be initiated from a computer a mobile device a tablet or any type of device used to access the social networking system . Similarly a user may participate in a media session from a computer a mobile device a tablet or any type of device used to access the social networking system . The user who initiates a media session and the user who participates in the media session may use different types of devices to access the social networking system .

According to one embodiment of the invention when a user begins participating in a media session a chat session may be automatically initiated between the participating user and the user who initiated the media session. If both users are signed into the chat interface and are visible to each other the social networking system may initiate a chat session including the participating user and the user who initiated the media session. Alternatively either user may be prompted to indicate whether they would like to chat with the other user and the chat session may be initiated if both users respond in the affirmative. According to an embodiment the chat session may include the initiating user and one participating user. Alternatively the chat session may include multiple participating users. The initiating user may have the ability to dictate whether participating users can chat with him or not and may restrict particular participating users from chatting with him or all participating users from chatting with him. This functionality may be provided as part of a privacy settings feature as described further below.

According to one embodiment of the invention there are several conditions that may trigger the appearance of stories or other indications about a user s media session to other users. These conditions may exist apart from and in addition to any general criteria or algorithms used to determine which stories or other indications appear in a user s news feed chat interface ticker interface or other interface. One such condition is whether the user who may potentially join in the media session is a member of or otherwise has access to the media module . If no such access exists the social networking system may not provide an indication to the user that there is a media session to potentially join. Another condition may pertain to the availability of the service that is providing the media. Some media services may only operate in certain countries and may restrict use of their applications to users in those countries. This may be due to content licensing restrictions or other reasons.

Another condition pertains to the privacy of the initiating user. For example returning to user Lloyd Hoke may elect to keep his listening session private such that his activity of listening to Victors is not revealed to his friends. Privacy settings of other users who might otherwise join the media session may also determine whether the media session is revealed to them. For example assume user Junior Roundtree and user Desmond Woodson are not friends and user Desmond Woodson has set his privacy settings so that only friends may see his activities with the social networking system . In this instance if user Junior Roundtree has already joined the listening session of the initiating user Lloyd Hoke then an indication of the listening session may not be presented to user Desmond Woodson because publication of his joining the listening session would violate his privacy settings. A user may specify privacy restrictions for a particular song artist genre title game or generally for all media activity within a particular application.

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor .

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

