---

title: Call service method and apparatus
abstract: A call service method and an apparatus are provided. The call service method of an electronic device includes detecting a communication state change with a counterpart electronic device, checking a reason for the communication state change, and performing at least one of displaying communication state information based on the reason for the communication state change and recovering a call connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386622&OS=09386622&RS=09386622
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09386622
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150417
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0046002 filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Apr. 17 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The wireless communication enabled electronic device has evolved to the extent of supporting multiple communication networks. For example recent wireless communication devices are capable of supporting Circuit Switched CS network based voice call service and Packet Switched PS network based data communication service e.g. data service on LTE .

Although network operators are trying to extend their network coverage such extension is restrictive. As a result electronic device users are likely to experience service lags or service failure. Accordingly a method is needed for providing the user with call service in poor communication conditions such as when communication errors occur and when there is a reduction in the quality of the communication session over the network.

The present invention has been made to address at least the problems and disadvantages described above and to provide at least the advantages described below.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a call service method of an electronic device is provided. The call service method includes detecting a communication state change with a counterpart electronic device checking a reason for the communication state change and performing at least one of displaying communication state information based on the reason for the communication state change and recovering a call connection.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a call service method of an electronic device is provided. The call service method includes playing a streaming content received through a communication network detecting a communication state change on the communication network and transmitting at least part of streaming content information to a counterpart electronic device based on a reason for the communication state change.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication unit configured to transmit and receive communication signals a display unit configured to display communication service information and a processor configured to detect a communication state change with a counterpart electronic device check a reason for the communication state change control the display unit to display communication state information on a screen based on the reason for the communication state change and recover a call connection.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an emotion analysis module configured to analyze voice data and expression data to determine an emotion of a counterpart user and an image processing module configured to modify a still image of the counterpart user according to an emotion factor of the counterpart user where the processor is further configured to control when the video data is not received from the counterpart electronic device and a strength of a signal carrying the video data is equal to or less than a threshold the display unit to display the still image of the counterpart user the still image being modified based on the voice and expression data.

Hereinafter the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may have various modifications and embodiments and thus will be described in detail with reference to the specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings. However it should be understood that there is no intent to limit the present invention to the particular forms disclosed herein rather the present invention should be construed to cover all modifications equivalents and or alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention. In the description of the drawings identical or similar reference numerals are used to designate identical or similar elements.

It will be understood that the expressions comprises and may comprise are used to specify presence of a disclosed function operation component etc. but do not preclude the presence of one or more functions operations components etc. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or has when used in this specification specify the presence of a stated feature number step operation component element or a combination thereof but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features numbers steps operations components elements or combinations thereof.

In the present disclosure the expression and or is taken as specific disclosure of each and any combination of enumerated things. For example A and or B is to be taken as specific disclosure of each of A B and A and B.

As used herein terms such as first second etc. are used to describe various components however the components should not be defined by these terms. For example the terms do not restrict the order and or importance of the corresponding components. The terms are used only for distinguishing one component from another component. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and likewise a second component may also be referred to as a first component without departing from the teaching of the inventive concept.

It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected to or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present between the two elements.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless otherwise defined herein all terms including technical or scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by those skilled in the art to which the present invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the specification and relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device includes devices having a communication function. Examples of the electronic device include a smartphone table Personal Computer PC mobile phone video phone electronic book e book reader desktop PC laptop PC netbook computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA Portable Multimedia Player PMP MP3 player mobile medical appliance camera wearable device e.g. Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing electronic bracelet electronic necklace electronic appcessory electronic tattoo smartwatch etc. .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may be one of smart home appliances having operation support function. Examples of the smart electronic appliance as an electronic device include a television Digital Versatile Disk DVD player audio player refrigerator air conditioner vacuum cleaner electronic oven microwave oven laundry machine air cleaner set top box TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV and Google TV game console electronic dictionary electronic key camcorder and electronic frame etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention examples of the electronic device include a medical device e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT Navigation device Global Positioning System GPS receiver Event Data Recorder EDR Flight Data Recorder FDR car infotainment device maritime electronic device e.g. maritime navigation device and gyro compass aviation electronic device avionics security device vehicle head unit industrial or home robot Automatic Teller Machine ATM Point Of Sales POS machine etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention examples of the electronic device include furniture and a building structure having a communication function electronic board electronic signature receiving device projector and metering device e.g. water electric gas and electric wave metering devices .

According to various embodiments the electronic device may be any combination of the aforementioned devices. According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may be a flexible device. It should be obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and an communication service control module .

The bus connects the aforementioned components to each other and is a circuit for exchanging signals e.g. control messages among the components.

The processor receives a command from any of the aforementioned components e.g. memory input output interface display communication interface and communication service control module through the bus interprets the command and executes operation or data processing according to the decrypted command.

The memory stores a command or data received from the processor or other components e.g. input output interface display communication interface communication service control module etc. or generated by the processor or other components. The memory stores program modules including kernel middleware Application Programming Interface API applications etc. Each programming module may be implemented as software firmware hardware or any combination thereof.

The kernel controls or manages the system resources e.g. the bus processor and memory for use in executing the operation or function implemented with the middleware the API or the applications . The kernel also may provide an interface allowing the middleware API or applications to access the components of the electronic device to control or manage.

The middleware works as a relay of data communicated between the API or application and the kernel . The middleware executes control of the task requests from the applications to assign priority for use of the system resources e.g. bus processor and memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface for the applications that controls the function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. a command for file control window control image control or text control.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the applications include a Short Messaging Service Multimedia Messaging Service SMS MMS application email application calendar application alarm application health care application e.g. an application of measuring quantity of motion or blood sugar level and environmental information application e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity and temperature applications . Additionally or alternatively the applications may include an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and external electronic device . Examples of the information an exchange application include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device and a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application is provided with a function of relaying the alarm information generated by the other applications e.g. SMS MMS application email application health care application and environmental information application of the electronic device to an external electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application provides the user with the notification information received from an external electronic device .

The device management application manages e.g. installs deletes and updates the function of an external electronic device e.g. turn on off the external electronic device or a part of the external electronic device or adjust the brightness or resolution of the display which communicates with the electronic device or the service e.g. communication or messaging service provided by the external electronic device or an application running on the external electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present invention the applications may include an application designated according to the property e.g. a type of an external electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is the MP3 player the applications may include a music playback application. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications may include a health care application.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include at least one of applications designated to the electronic device and applications received from the external electronic device or a server .

The input output interface delivers a command or data input by the user through with an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or touchscreen to the processor memory communication interface and or communication service control module through the bus . For example the input output interface provides the processor with the data corresponding to the touch input on the touchscreen by the user. The input output interface outputs a command or data which is received from the processor memory communication interfaced or communication service control module through the bus through the input output device e.g. a speaker and or a display . For example the input out interface outputs the voice data processed by the processor to the user through the speaker.

The communication interface establishes a communication connection between the electronic device and an external device e.g. the electronic device and the server . For example the communication interface connects to the network through a wireless or wired link for communication with the external device.

Examples of wireless communication technology include Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication technology e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro and Global System for Mobile GSM communications .

Examples of wired communication technology include Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the network is a telecommunication network. The communication network includes at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things and a telephone network.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication protocol e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol and physical layer protocol between the electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the applications API middleware kernel and communication interface .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device connects to a base station through a network. The base station is a fixed station communicating with the electronic device and can be interchangeably referred to as evolved Node B eNB and Base Transceiver System BTS . The base station connects to the core network of the wireless communication system supporting the call service.

The base station sends the electronic device a communication signal concerning a call connection with another electronic device. Examples of the communication signal include a call connection request signal a call connection response signal and a communication termination signal.

The communication service control module processes at least part of the information acquired from other components e.g. the processor the memory the input out interface and the communication interface and presents the processing result to the user in various manners. For example the communication service control module controls at least part of the functions of the electronic device for interoperation the external electronic device and server using the processor or independently of the processor .

Referring to the communication service control module of the electronic device is provided. The communication service control module includes a communication state change analysis module a notification information generation module a communication setup module and an information display control module . According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication service control module may also include an emotion analysis module and an image processing module .

The communication state change analysis module analyzes communication signals exchanged between the electronic device and the base station supporting the network service. The communication state change analysis module checks the reason for a change of the communication state based on the communication signal information i.e. whether the connection between the electronic device and the base station has been dropped whether the connection between a counterpart electronic device i.e. a second electronic device with which the electronic device communicates such as external electronic device and the base station has been dropped whether the call service information of the counterpart electronic device has changed or whether the electronic device is out of the cell coverage area of the base station.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication state change analysis module checks the communication state change information based on the error code included in the communication signal received from the base station i.e. the call end signal. For example the electronic device establishes a connection with another electronic device i.e. the counterpart electronic device via the base station and exchanges communication signals or communication messages with the base station. In this case the communication signal may include base station identity information cell coverage information and communication signal strength information.

The communication state change analysis module determines the termination of the communication based on a predetermined input signal e.g. an end button input signal or an end gesture input signal . If the communication is terminated in response to the predetermined input signal the communication state change analysis module analyses that the communication is terminated according to the user s intention and otherwise if the communication is terminated without receiving a predetermined input signal the communication state change analysis module analyses that the communication is terminated without the user s intention.

The notification information generation module generates notification information which informs the user of the communication termination information or communication quality degradation information based on the communication state change information. The notification information may be provided with a visual effect e.g. signal strength indicator still image motion image or animation showing the breakage of the connection with the base station a sound effect e.g. beeping or alarm sound illumination effect e.g. LCD blinking and or a vibration effect.

The notification information generation module generates the notification information to provide the counterpart electronic device with the information on the currently running function or currently playing content when the communication is terminated without the user s intention. For example if the communication is broken without the user s intention in the middle of playing the streaming content provided by a server the electronic device generates the notification information based on the streaming content information and the access account information of the server providing the streaming service.

When the call connection with the counterpart electronic device drops the communication setup module may re request for connection setup with the counterpart electronic device. The communication setup module requests for the connection setup with the counterpart electronic device through a network different from the network on which the connection has been broken. For example if the connection with the counterpart electronic device through the LTE network has been broken without the user s intention the electronic device requests for connection setup with a communication network e.g. 3G and Wi Fi networks different than the LTE network.

The information display control module controls the display to display the notification information e.g. communication termination information and communication quality degradation information generated by the notification information generation module . The information display control module controls the display to display the communication reestablishment information e.g. an icon when the communication has been terminated without the user s intention.

According to an embodiment of the present invention when communication is reestablished the information display control module controls to display a visual effect expressing that communication has been established using a stored data e.g image According to an embodiment of the present invention the information display control module controls to display information on call services available for the counterpart electronic device corresponding to a contact item included in a contact list or communication list stored in the electronic device . Specifically the information display control module acquires from a server which collects information on electronic devices the available call services associated with the identity information of the counterpart electronic device stored in the electronic device . The information display control module also controls to display along with the information on the available call services for the counterpart electronic device the contact information of the user of the counterpart electronic device i.e. the counterpart user based on the acquired available call service information.

The electronic device performs video communication by transmitting receiving video and voice data to from the counterpart electronic device. If the electronic device is out of the cell coverage if the newly connected network supports only the voice call or if the communication quality becomes degraded the video data may not be transmitted received.

When it is determined that the video communication with the counterpart electronic device no longer available the emotion analysis module determines an emotion of the counterpart user by analyzing voice and expression data received from the counterpart electronic device. For example the emotion analysis module analyzes at least one of the rhythm of the voice voice frequency and data acquired by numeralizing the changes of eyes nose mouse and countenance received from the counterpart electronic device and calculates numeric data to extract an emotion factor.

If it is determined that the video communication with the counterpart electronic device is not available the image processing module selects an image of the counterpart user and controls to display the image. The image processing module may select the image of the counterpart user from among images buffered during the video communication or images stored in association with the counterpart user e.g. a profile photo stored along with the contact item or associated with a social network service .

The image processing module may process the images of the counterpart user to express the analyzed counterpart user s emotion. For example the image processing module analyzes the voice and expression data and when it is determined that the counterpart user is happy change the shapes of the eyes and sides of the mouth of the counterpart user s face to emulate smiling. If it is determined that the counterpart user is speaking based on the voice and expression data the image processing module animates the mouth region to emulate talking on the counterpart user s image. The electronic device may further include a short range communication module e.g. Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Zigbee Wi Fi Device to Device D2D . The communication module may transmit information related to streaming content i.e. the music received from a server to a counterpart electronic device. When a communication state change is detected at least part of the streaming content may be transmitted to the counterpart electronic device.

If it is determined that communication is terminated without the user s intention the electronic device requests connection for a streaming to the counterpart electronic device. When a signal is received from the counterpart electronic device permitting the streaming connection from the counterpart electronic device the electronic device transmits to the counterpart electronic device server access account information and at least part of the streaming content in response to the permission signal.

Referring to the electronic device performs call connection with a counterpart electronic device. If the electronic device initiates the call connection with the counterpart electronic device a call connection screen is displayed on the screen as shown in . The call connection screen includes a counterpart information display region and a call function region . The counterpart information display region displays the counterpart electronic device identity information e.g. a phone number a picture of the counterpart user and call connection time. The call function region displays the call related functions provided by the electronic device e.g. a recording function a sound mute function a communication mode switching function and a call connection termination function .

If it is determined that the call connection drops without the user s intention or the communication quality is degraded based on the communication signal received from the base station in the call connection process the electronic device displays a communication state change notification object in the counterpart information display region as shown in . Although the communication state change information is arranged at the center of the screen in the communication state change information may also be arranged on another part of the screen such as at a top bottom left and right side of the counterpart information display region . The communication state change information includes information on the communication breakage between the electronic device and base station and signal strength information e.g. counterpart antenna received signal strength . The notification object of the communication state change information may be generated in the form of a text an image or an icon but is not limited thereto.

According to an embodiment when the call drops without the user s intention the electronic device displays a reconnection object e.g. a redial icon . When the call drops without the user s intention to the user of the electronic device may request that the connection with the counterpart electronic device be reestablished by means of the reconnection object .

According to an embodiment when the call drops without the user s intention the electronic device automatically sends a request to the counterpart electronic to reestablish the connection and presents a connection reestablishment attempt notification e.g. trying to re establish the connection to the user.

Referring to the first electronic device connects to the first base station . The second electronic device connects to the second base station the second electronic device may alternatively connect to the first base station . The first and second base stations and relay the signals exchanged between the first electronic device and second electronic device via a core network.

The first electronic device and second electronic device establish a connection for communication via at least one of first base station and second base station . For example the first electronic device and second electronic device establishes a communication channel at step . The first electronic device transmits communication signals to the first base station through the communication channel. The second electronic device transmits communication signals to the second base station . The first base station relays the communication signal transmitted by the first electronic device to the second electronic device via the second base station connected to the second electronic device . The second base station relays the communication signal transmitted by the second electronic device to the first electronic device via the first base station .

At step the call connection between the first electronic device and the first base station drops. For example if the first electronic device may move out of the cell coverage area of the first base station or experience interference the call connection with the first base station may dropped e.g. the link cutoff . The first electronic device checks the communication state change based on the communication signal strength before the call connection with the first base station drops.

If the call connection with the first electronic device drops the first base station notifies the second base station of the call connection drop via the core network at step . That is the first electronic device sends call drop notification information to the second base station including termination code information at step .

The first base station sets the termination code information differently depending on whether the call connection is terminated in response to the request from the first electronic device the first electronic device moves out of the cell coverage or the signal strength drops.

The second base station forwards the call drop notification information received from the first base station to the second electronic device .

If the call connection with the second electronic device drops the first electronic device checks the reason of the change of the communication state at step . The first electronic device configures the screen depending on the communication state change reason and displays the screen by means of the display unit at step . For example when the call connection drops without the user s intention the first electronic device displays a screen configured for requesting the counterpart electronic device for re establishment of the connection.

If the call drop notification information is received from the second base station the second electronic device analyzes the communication state change reason based on the call drop notification information at step . The second electronic device checks whether the call connection is terminated with or without the user s intention based on the drop code information included in the call drop notification information. The second electronic device generates a screen based on the communication state change reason and displays the screen by means of the display unit at step . For example if the call connection drops without the user s intention the second electronic device maintains the call connection screen.

Referring to the first electronic device establishes a call connection with the second electronic device at step . The first electronic device detects a change of the connection state based on the communication signal at step . For example the first electronic device checks if the connection is cut off in the middle of the communication if the communication signal strength drops below a predetermined threshold or if interference occurs.

If the communication state changes the first electronic device analyzes the reason of the communication state change at step . The first electronic device checks if the link established to the base station on which the first electronic device has camped has been dropped if the link between the second electronic device and the base station on which the second electronic device has camped has dropped if the communication is terminated in response to a preconfigured termination request signal or if the communication signal strength has changed based on the communication signal.

The first electronic device determines whether the call connection is cut off according to the user s intention at step In the case that the communication is terminated by a predetermined input signal e.g. an end button input signal or an end gesture input signal the first electronic device determines that the communication is terminated according to the user s intention and otherwise if the communication is terminated without the user s intention the first electronic device determines that the communication is terminated in opposition to the user s intention.

If the call connection drops in opposition to the user s intention the first electronic device displays communication state change information associated with the communication state change reason and requests for reestablishment of the call connection i.e. redials the second electronic device .

Referring to a call connection drop occurs at step in the middle of communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . For example the connection link between the first electronic device and the first base station may be cut off. The first base station sends a call drop notification information to the second base station through a core network at step . Then the second base station sends the call drop notification information to the second electronic device at step .

The first electronic device checks the communication state change reason at step . The first electronic device may display a communication notification information based on the communication state change reason at step .

The electronic device recovers the communication function according to the communication change reason at step . In the case that the call drops without the user s intention the first electronic device requests for reestablishment of the connection with the second electronic device by transmitting a connection reestablishment request at step . The first base station sends the connection reestablishment request to the second base station at step . The second base station forwards the communication reestablishment request to the second electronic device at step .

The second electronic device checks the communication change reason based on the call drop notification information at step . In this case the second electronic device displays on the screen the information notifying that the connection with the first electronic device has dropped.

If it is determined based on the termination code information included in the call drop notification information that the call has dropped without the user s intention the second electronic device may maintain the call connection screen on the display at step . Step may be omitted and the information notifying connection reestablishment request from the first electronic device may be provided instead of the call connection screen.

If a connection reestablishment request signal is received from the first electronic device the second electronic device checks the reestablishment request at step . In an embodiment of the present invention if the reestablishment request is received from the first electronic device in the state of maintaining the communication screen of the second electronic device the second electronic device outputs a notification of the receipt of the reestablishment request. For example the second electronic device notifies the user of the information on the receipt of the reestablishment request with at least one of vibration effect sound effect and illumination effect and displays an item for accepting the reestablishment request on the communication screen of the second electronic device . The second electronic device reestablishes the connection with the first electronic device if the item for accepting the reestablishment request is selected or if a signal responding to a request signal is input or automatically. The second electronic device checks whether the sender of the connection reestablishment request is the first electronic device . If it is determined that the sender of the connection reestablishment request is the first electronic device the second electronic device reestablishes the connection.

Referring to the electronic device changes the call connection screen according to the change of the communication state. The electronic device configures the video call screen with the user image collected through a camera and the counterpart user image received from the counterpart electronic device and displays the screen on the display unit.

The user of the electronic device performs video communication with the counterpart user. shows a video call screen including a user and counterpart user display region and a communication function region . In the video call screen the counterpart user image is received from the counterpart electronic device and the user image is a moving image of the user of the electronic device input through the camera.

When the call connection drops without the user s intention the electronic device reestablishes the connection with the counterpart electronic device through the connection reestablish request operation. The connection may be reestablished between the two electronic devices through a communication network which does not support video communication. If there is no video data through the reestablished connection a still image of the counterpart user e.g. a photo may be selected. The electronic device displays the selected counterpart user s still image on the video call screen as shown in .

In the voice call service the electronic device analyzes the voice data and expression data of the counterpart user and processes the face of counterpart user image based on the analyzed emotion of the counterpart user. For example the electronic device checks the emotion of the counterpart user based on the voice data and expression data and extracts regions of the still image capable of expressing emotion. The electronic device processes the image to change for example the shape of the eyes and sides of the mouth of the counterpart user s face to emulate a certain expression. In this way the user of the electronic device feels as if he she is communicating with the counterpart user through the video call service.

Referring to the first electronic device establishes a video call connection for communicating video and voice data with a second electronic device at step . When the call connection established with the second electronic device drops in the middle of the video call session the first electronic device reestablishes the connection. The first electronic device receives the voice data but not the video data. For example the first electronic device which has communicated with the second electronic device through a first communication network supporting both the voice and video calls e.g. LTE and 3G networks may experience a call connection drop and re establish the connection with the second electronic device through a second communication network supporting only a voice call e.g. 2G Wi Fi and 3G network not supporting a video call .

The first electronic device determines whether the video call is switched to the voice call at step . If the video call is switched to the voice call the first electronic device selects a picture of the counterpart user at step . The selected image is an image associated with the identity information of the second electronic device e.g. a profile image stored in association with contact information for the second electronic device or an image included in a social network service . The second electronic device may then send the first electronic device the expression data of the user of the second electronic device .

The electronic device determines the emotion of the counterpart user of the second electronic device based on the voice data and expression data at step . For example the electronic device analyzes the rhythm of the voice or the voice frequency to generate numeric data. The electronic device analyzes the expression data transmitted by the second electronic device to extract the emotion factor of the counterpart user. The electronic device extracts the facial region from the counterpart user s image and compares the facial region with a template for expression analysis to determine the emotion factor of the counterpart user.

The electronic device processes the counterpart user s image to change specific regions of the image by reflecting the analyzed counterpart user s emotion. The processed image is displayed at step . For example the electronic device analyzes the voice and expression data and if it is determined that the counterpart user s emotion is delight the electronic device changes the eyes and or sides of the mouth in the counterpart user s image to emulate smiling. Also if it is determined that the counterpart user is speaking based on the voice and expression data the electronic device animates the mouth in the counterpart user s image to emulate talking.

Referring to the electronic device displays the call service information associated with the counterpart electronic device. For example the electronic device displays a communication list screen or a contact list screen on the display unit. The electronic device displays counterpart identity information of the communication list or the contact list. The electronic device displays adjacent to each counterpart identity information call service information indicating the type of call service available for the corresponding counterpart electronic device.

The electronic device acquires the available call service information concerning the counterpart identity information stored in the electronic device from a server collecting electronic device information. The electronic device displays the information on the available call service for communication with the counterpart user along with the counterpart identity information based on the acquired available communication information.

For example if it is determined that the counterpart electronic device is located in an area in which the video communication is available the electronic device displays the contact list in which the contact item corresponding to the counterpart user is provided with the call service information which indicates a video call availability indicator. The electronic device may configure the contact list screen such that users for counterpart electronic devices available for voice calls and users for counterpart electronic devices available for video call are distinguished with different call service information and .

Referring to the first electronic device connects to the server via the first base station at step . The server provides a streaming service. The first electronic device requests the server for connection and connects to the server through an authentication process.

At step the first electronic device may establish a connection e.g. pairing with a Bluetooth device through short range wireless communication e.g. Bluetooth communication in the state of being connected to the server .

The first electronic device performs a streaming function with the content data provided by the server in response to a user request at step . For example the first electronic device receives a playlist provided by the server and displays the playlist on the screen. If the user selects a certain content item e.g. audio and video contents in the playlist the first electronic device receives the selected content from the server in a streaming manner and plays the streaming content by means of the display unit and or audio processing unit.

If the first electronic device has established a connection with a Bluetooth device the first electronic device transfers the streaming content received from the server to the Bluetooth device connected to it. The first electronic device converts the streaming content received from the server to data suited for Bluetooth communication and transmits the converted data e.g. streaming data to the Bluetooth device. The Bluetooth device plays the data received from the first electronic device in the format of the streaming content. For example if an electronic device of a user A is connected to a car through a Bluetooth channel the electronic device of the user A transfers through the Bluetooth the audio content received from a streaming server to the car. The car plays the audio content received from the electronic device using the audio system of the car.

The first electronic device detects a call connection drop in the state of communicating with the server at step .

At step the first electronic device checks the communication state change reason and determines whether the streaming service is terminated without the user s intention. For example if the communication signal strength of the first base station is equal to or less than a predetermined threshold value if electric wave interference occurs if the first electronic device moves out of the network coverage of the first base station or if the data amount allocated to the first electronic device in the packet network is exhausted the first electronic device determines that the call connection drop has occurred without the user s intention.

If the streaming service is terminated without the user s intention the first electronic device requests the second electronic device for reestablishment of the streaming service at step . For example the first electronic device configures the information on the second electronic device in advance for A streaming connection request or displays a screen for receiving the information on the second electronic device .

The first electronic device provides the server with the streaming connection request information e.g. identity information of the second electronic device and a streaming service connection request message addressed to the second electronic device . A streaming connection request notification may be displayed on the second electronic device in step .

The second electronic device admits the connection in response to the streaming connection request at step . At this time the second electronic device displays a screen for receiving an input for accepting the connection from the user of the second electronic device .

The second electronic device transmits a connection admission signal to at least one of the first electronic device and the server in response to the connection request at step .

The second electronic device connects to the server in response to the connection admission at step . At this step the first electronic device or the server provides the second electronic device with the user account information or temporary account information for access to the server .

The first electronic device may provide the second electronic device with the account information of its user for use in accessing the server .

The first electronic device sends the server the information on the first electronic device and the second electronic device and the streaming connection request. Upon receipt of the request from the first electronic device and the admission signal from the second electronic device the server generates temporary account information based on the user account information of the first electronic device and sends the temporary account information to the second electronic device . The temporary account information may be the account information that can be used within a predetermined time or during a predetermined period e.g. one day and one hour coupons .

If the second electronic device connects to the server the first electronic device or the server sends the second electronic device the information on the streaming content which has been stopped due to the call connection drop at step .

The second electronic device executes the streaming function by receiving the streaming content which has been played by the first electronic device from the server at step .

The second electronic device establishes a connection with a Bluetooth device before execution of the streaming function at step . The Bluetooth device connected to the second electronic device may be connected to the first electronic device .

If the Bluetooth device connects to both the first electronic device and the second electronic device it may operate as a master device to forward the information received from the first electronic device to the second electronic device .

In an embodiment the second electronic device transfers the streaming content received from the server to the Bluetooth device connected to the second electronic device . The Bluetooth device generates the streaming content received from the second electronic device .

For example if users A and B are in a car the first electronic device of user A may be connected to the car through a Bluetooth link. The first electronic device of user A may then transfer streaming content received from a server to the car through the Bluetooth link such that users A and B enjoy the streaming content together.

If the streaming service is terminated without user A s intention the second electronic device of user B can receive and play the same streaming content from the server through the process described in steps to . The second electronic device of user B transfers the received streaming content to the car through the Bluetooth link such that the users A and B can continue enjoying the streaming content in the car.

If the quality of the network connection associated with the first electronic device of the user A recovers the server sends the information on the streaming content being played by the second electronic device of user B to the first electronic device of user A. Then the first electronic device of user A may resume playback of the streaming content based on the streaming content information provided by the server .

Referring to the electronic device is provided. The electronic device may be of the whole or a part of the electronic device . The electronic device includes an Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may operate an Operating System OS and or application programs to control a plurality of hardware and or software components connected to the AP and perform data processing and operations on multimedia data. For example the AP may be implemented in the form of System on Chip SoC . The AP may include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. communication interface performs data communication with other electronic devices e.g. electronic device and server through a network e.g. the network . The communication module includes a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module is responsible for voice and video communication text messaging and Internet access services through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro and GSM networks . The cellular module performs identification and authentication of electronic devices in the communication network using the SIM card . The cellular module may perform at least one of the functions of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of the multimedia control function.

The cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . The cellular module may be implemented in the form of SOC. Although the cellular module e.g. the communication processor the memory and the power management module are depicted as independent components separate from the AP the present invention is not limited thereto but may be embodied in a way that the AP includes at least one of the components e.g. the cellular module .

Each of the AP and the cellular module e.g. communication processor may load a command or data received from at least one of the components on a non volatile or volatile memory and process the command or data. The AP or the cellular module stores the data received from other components or generated by at least one of other components in the non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing the data it transmits receives. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are depicted as independent blocks at least two of them e.g. communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be integrated in the form of SoC.

The RF module is responsible for data communication e.g. transmitting receiving RF signals. Although not depicted the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter and a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . The RF module also may include the elements for transmitting receiving electric wave in free space e.g. conductor or conductive wire. Although illustrates the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module sharing the RF module the present invention is not limited thereto but may be embodied in a way that at least one of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module transmits receives RF signals to from an independent RF module.

The SIM card is designed to be inserted into a slot formed at a predetermined position of the electronic device . The SIM card stores unique identity information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or a non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory 

The external memory may be a flash drive such as Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD micro SD Mini SD extreme Digital xD and Memory Stick. The external memory is connected to the electronic device through various interfaces functionally. According to an embodiment the electronic device may include a storage device or storage medium such as hard drive.

The sensor module measures physical quantity or checks the operation status of the electronic device and converts the measured or checked information to an electric signal. The sensor module may include at least one of gesture sensor A gyro sensor B barometric sensor C magnetic sensor D acceleration sensor E grip sensor F proximity sensor G color sensor H e.g. Red Green Blue RGB sensor bio sensor I temperature humidity sensor J illuminance sensor K and Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include an E nose sensor Electromyography EMG sensor Electroencephalogram EEG sensor Electrocardiogram ECG sensor Infrared IR sensor iris sensor and fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one of the sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device .

The touch panel may be one of capacitive resistive infrared microwave type touch panel. The touch panel may include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive type touch panel it is possible to detect physical contact or approximation. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides the user with haptic reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented with a sheet in the same or in a similar way as receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet.

The ultrasonic input device is a device capable of checking data by detecting a sound wave through a microphone and may be implemented for wireless recognition. The electronic device may receive user input made by means of an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected through the communication module .

The panel is a Liquid Crystal Display LCD panel or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED panel. The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel may be implemented as a module integrated with the touch panel .

The projector projects an image to a screen. The screen may be placed inside or outside the electronic device . The display may include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and the projector .

The interface may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface and a D0subminiature D sub .

The interface includes the communication interface as shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface includes a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a SD MMC card interface and infrared Data Association irDA standard interface.

The audio module converts sound to an electric signal and vice versa. At least a part of the audio module may be included in the input output interface shown in . The audio module may process the audio information input or output through the speaker the receiver the earphone and the microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of capturing still and motion pictures and includes at least one image sensor e.g. front and rear sensors a lens and Image Signal Processor ISP and a flash e.g. LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages the power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC a battery and a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be integrated into an integrated circuit or SoC semiconductor. The charging may be classified into wireless charging and wired charge. The charger IC charges the battery and protects the charger against overvoltage or overcurrent. The charger IC may include at least one of wired charger and wireless charger ICs. Examples of the wireless charging technology includes resonance wireless charging and electromagnetic wave wireless charging. An extra circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop resonance circuit and diode may be provided.

The battery gauge measures the residual power of the battery charging voltage current and temperature. The battery stores or generates power and supplies the stored or generated power to the electronic device . The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays an operation status of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device booting status messaging status and charging status.

The electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting mobile TV may be able to process the media data conforming to broadcast standards such Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB and media flow.

Each of the components of the electronic device according to the present invention may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding component may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The hardware according to an embodiment of the present invention may include at least one of the above described elements. Some of the above described elements may be omitted from the hardware or the hardware may further include additional elements. Further some of the components of the electronic device may be combined to be one entity which can perform the same functions as those of the components before the combination.

The term module used in the present invention may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The term module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit . A module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. A module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. A module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example a module according to the present invention may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known or are to be developed hereinafter.

According to various embodiments of the present invention at least some of the electronic devices for example modules or functions thereof or the methods for example operations provided herein may be implemented by a command stored in a computer readable storage medium in a programming module form. When the command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented by for example the processor . At least some of the programming modules may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specially configured to store and perform a program instruction such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory and the like. In addition the program instructions may include high level programming languages which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of the present invention.

The programming module according to the present invention may include one or more of the aforementioned components or may further include other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present invention may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

As described above the call service method and apparatus of the present invention is advantageous in terms of allowing to provide the user with the call service information associated with communication error and communication state change reason by the change of the communication network and to recover the communication function if necessary so as to improve the user convenience.

The various embodiments of the present invention described in this specification and illustrated in the drawings are merely examples presented in order to easily describe technical details of the present invention and to help in an understanding of the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Therefore it should be construed that in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein all modifications and changes or modified and changed forms derived from the technical idea of various embodiments of the present invention fall within the scope of the present invention. Therefore the scope of the present invention is defined not by the scope of the detailed description and embodiments but by the following claims and their equivalents.

