---

title: Method of searching for device between electronic devices
abstract: A method of searching for an electronic device between electronic devices is provided. The method includes advertising, by a first electronic device, a request signal, receiving, by the first electronic device, a response signal from a second electronic device having received the request signal, updating, by the first electronic device, the request signal to include identification information identifying at least part of the second electronic device, advertising, by the first electronic device, the updated request signal, and receiving, by the first electronic device, the response signal from the at least part of the second electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516489&OS=09516489&RS=09516489
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09516489
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150220
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 23 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0021013 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method of searching for an electronic device between electronic devices.

An electronic device may search for a neighboring electronic device or advertise a signal for data transmission with another electronic device under multicast or broadcast environments. The electronic device transmitting the advertised signal may receive a reply signal corresponding to the advertised signal from another neighboring electronic device.

When an electronic device transmits receives signals to from another neighboring electronic device under multicast or broadcast environments the reliability of data transfer is not guaranteed such that data duplication or loss may occur. Additionally since there may be a plurality of electronic devices in a predetermined space and due to repetitive data transmission an overall network communication efficiency may be reduced.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method of searching for an electronic device between electronic devices.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of searching for an electronic device between electronic devices is provided. The method includes advertising by a first electronic device a request signal receiving by the first electronic device a response signal from a second electronic device having received the request signal updating by the first electronic device the request signal to include identification information identifying at least part of the second electronic device advertising by the first electronic device the updated request signal and receiving by the first electronic device the response signal from the at least part of the second electronic device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of searching for an electronic device between electronic devices is provided. The method includes receiving by a second electronic device a request signal from a first electronic device advertising by the second electronic device a response signal including identification information receiving by the second electronic device an updated request signal from the first electronic device checking by the second electronic device whether identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the updated request signal and when the identification information identifying the second electronic device is not included in the updated request signal advertising by the second electronic device the response signal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication interface and a processor wherein the communication interface is configured to advertise a request signal and to receive a response signal from another electronic device having received the request signal wherein the processor is configured to update the request signal to include identification information identifying at least part of the other electronic device and wherein the communication interface is further configured to advertise the updated request signal and to receive the response signal from the at least part of the other electronic device.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

The terms include comprise have may include may comprise and or may have used herein may indicate disclosed functions operations or existence of elements but do not exclude other functions operations or elements. Additionally in this specification the terms include comprise including and or comprising may specify a property a region a fixed number a step a process an element and or a component but do not exclude other properties regions fixed numbers steps processes elements and or components.

The meaning of the term or used herein includes any or all combinations of the words connected by the term or . For instance the expression A or B may indicate include A B or both A and B.

The terms such as 1 2 first second and the like used herein may refer to modifying various different elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure but do not limit the elements. For instance such terms do not limit the order and or priority of the elements. Furthermore such terms may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For instance both a first user device and a second user device indicate a user device but indicate different user devices from each other. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the present disclosure when one part or element device etc. is referred to as being connected to another part or element device etc. it should be understood that the former can be directly connected to the latter or electrically connected to the latter via an intervening part or element device etc. . In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Terms used in this specification are used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. The terms of a singular form may include plural forms unless they have a clearly different meaning in the context.

Unless otherwise defined herein all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms may have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. It will be further understood that terms which are defined in the dictionary and are commonly used should also be interpreted as is customary in the relevant related art and not in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein in various embodiments of the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may have a communication function. For instance electronic devices may include at least one of smartphones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video phones electronic book e book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia player PMPs MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras and wearable devices e.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic accessories electronic tattoos and smart watches .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be smart home appliances having a communication function. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions digital video disk DVD players audio players refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes television TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders and electronic picture frames.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices for example magnetic resonance angiography MRA devices magnetic resonance imaging MRI devices computed tomography CT devices medical imaging devices ultrasonic devices etc. navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices marine electronic equipment for example marine navigation systems gyro compasses etc. avionics security equipment car head units industrial or household robots financial institutions automatic teller s machines ATMs and stores point of sales POS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of furniture or buildings structures having a communication function electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors and various measuring instruments for example water electricity gas or radio signal measuring instruments . An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be one of the above mentioned various devices or a combination thereof. Additionally an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Furthermore it is apparent to those skilled in the art that an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited to the above mentioned devices.

Hereinafter a connecting member applied to an electronic device and an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to a person using an electronic device or a device using an electronic device for example an artificial intelligent electronic device .

Referring to a network environment is illustrated where the network environment may include a first electronic device including a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and an application control module .

The bus may be a circuit connecting the above mentioned components to each other and delivering a communication signal for example a control message therebetween.

The processor for example receives an instruction from the above other components for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module through the bus interprets the received instruction and performs operations and data processing in response to the interpreted instruction.

The memory may store an instruction or data received from the processor or other components for example the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module or an instruction or data generated from the processor or other components. The memory for example may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and an application . Each of the above mentioned programming modules may be configured with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used for performing operations or functions implemented by the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Additionally the kernel may provide an interface for accessing an individual component of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the application and controlling or managing the individual component.

The middleware may serve as an intermediary role for exchanging data between the API or the application and the kernel through communication. Additionally in relation to job requests received from the application or the middleware may perform a control for example scheduling or load balancing for the job requests by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource for example the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one application among various applications.

The API as an interface through which the application controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware may include at least one interface or function for example an instruction for file control window control image processing or character control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring an exercise amount or blood sugar or an environmental information application for example an application for providing pressure moisture or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application relating to information exchange between the first electronic device and an external electronic device for example an electronic device . The application relating to information exchange for example may include a notification relay application for delivering specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may have a function for delivering to an external electronic device for example the first electronic device or the second electronic device notification information occurring from another application for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environmental information application of the first electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device for example the second electronic device and may then provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application for example may manage for example install delete or update a function for example turning on off an external electronic device itself or some components or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display for at least part of an external electronic device for example the second electronic device communicating with the first electronic device an application operating in the external electronic device or a service for example a call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application specified according to the attribute for example a type of an electronic device of the external electronic device for example the second electronic device . For example when an external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application relating to music playback. Similarly when an external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application relating to heath care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application specified to the first electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device for example the second electronic device .

The input output interface may deliver an instruction or data inputted from a user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data on a user s touch inputted through a touch screen to the processor . Additionally the input output interface may output an instruction or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module through the bus through the input output device for example a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to a user through a speaker.

The communication interface may connect a communication between the first electronic device and an external device for example the second electronic device . For example the communication interface may communicate with the external device in connection to the network through wireless communication or wired communication. The wireless communication may include at least one of wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC GPS or cellular communication for example long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM . The wired communication may include at least one of universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 or plain old telephone service POTS for example.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things or a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for example transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol for communication between the first electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

The application control module may process at least part of information obtained from other components for example the processor the memory the input output interface or the communication interface and may output it to a user through various methods. For example the application control module may select an appropriate application from a plurality of applications stored in the memory based on user information received through the input output interface . The selected application may provide appropriate service to a user of the first electronic device based on data obtained from at least one sensor or the second electronic device including an external device through the network . Additionally the application control module may select or control an appropriate application in order to obtain information from various sensors or components mounted on the first electronic device or process information obtained therefrom. A configuration of the first electronic device including various sensors and or modules will be later described with reference to .

Under a multicast environment or a broadcast environment the first electronic device and the second electronic device may search for the other party device or may transmit receive data to from the other device. Each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device may advertise for example transmit signals to a plurality of electronic devices positioned in a predetermined space on the basis of one electronic device a request signal to another electronic device located in a predetermined space. An electronic device receiving the request signal may advertise a response signal to the other electronic device.

Hereinafter a method of advertising a request signal through the first electronic device searching for a device by advertising a response signal through the second electronic device receiving the request signal or transmitting receiving data will be mainly described.

Under the multicast environment or the broadcast environment the first electronic device may advertise a request signal to check whether the second electronic device is located in a predetermined space. The second electronic device may advertise a response signal in response to a corresponding signal. If the second electronic device is more than one e.g. the second electronic device may include up to N second electronic devices N the first electronic device may receive a large amount of packets for a predetermined time. For example the first electronic device may receive a relatively large amount of packets from a second electronic device close to the first electronic device and may receive a relatively small amount of packets from a second electronic device which is farther from the first electronic device than the second electronic device . Additionally a significant portion of a packet that the first electronic device receives from the second electronic device may correspond to an overlapping request signal. The first electronic device may be interrupted in receiving a request signal advertised from the second electronic device due to the overlapping request signal received from the second electronic device

The first electronic device may limit the packet transmission of the second electronic device having a relatively strong intensity of a response signal and may repeatedly receive a packet of the second electronic device having a relatively weak intensity of a response signal thereby efficiently searching for a neighboring second electronic device . Hereinafter a method of the first electronic device to limit at least part of packet transmission of the second electronic device in order for the search of the second electronic device will be mainly described.

Referring to the electronic device is illustrated where the electronic device may include at least one application processor AP a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and also may perform various data processing and operations with multimedia data by executing an operating system or an application program. The AP may be implemented with a system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module for example the communication interface of may perform data transmission through a communication between other electronic devices for example the second electronic device of connected to the electronic device for example the first electronic device of via a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice calls video calls text services or Internet services through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The cellular module may perform a distinction and authentication operation on an electronic device in a communication network by using a SIM for example the SIM card for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least part of a function that the AP provides. For example the cellular module may perform at least part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may further include a communication processor CP . Additionally the cellular module may be implemented with SoC for example. As shown in components such as the cellular module for example a CP the memory or the power management module are separated from the AP but according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may be implemented including some of the above mentioned components for example the cellular module .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module for example a CP may load instructions or data which are received from a nonvolatile memory or at least one of other components connected thereto into a volatile memory and then may process them. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of other components in a nonvolatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are shown as separate blocks in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure some for example at least two of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or an IC package. For example at least some for example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented with one SoC.

The RF module may be responsible for data transmission for example the transmission of an RF signal. Although not shown in the drawings the RF module may include a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA . Additionally the RF module may further include components for transmitting receiving electromagnetic waves on a free space in a wireless communication for example conductors or conducting wires. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module shown in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may perform the transmission of an RF signal through an additional RF module.

The SIM card may be a card including a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed at a specific position of an electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory of may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic random access memory DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example one time programmable read only memory OTPROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM not and NAND flash memory and not or NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF drive a secure digital SD drive a Micro SD drive a Mini SD drive an extreme digital xD drive or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures physical quantities or detects an operating state of the electronic device thereby converting the measured or detected information into electrical signals. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a pressure barometer sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example a red green blue RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally alternatively the sensor module may include an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor therein.

The user input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods for example. Additionally the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the capacitive method both direct touch and proximity recognition are possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented through a method similar or identical to that of receiving a user s touch input or an additional sheet for recognition. The key may include a physical button a touch key an optical key or a keypad for example. The ultrasonic input device as a device checking data by detecting sound waves through a microphone for example microphone in the electronic device may provide wireless recognition through an input tool generating ultrasonic signals. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or a server connected to the electronic device through the communication module .

The display module for example the display of may include a panel a hologram device and or a projector . The panel may include a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable for example. The panel and the touch panel may be configured with one module. The hologram may show three dimensional images in the air by using the interference of light. The projector may display an image by projecting light on a screen. The screen for example may be placed inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include an HDMI connection a USB connection an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub interface for example. The interface may be included in the communication interface as shown in for example. Additionally alternatively the interface may include a mobile high definition link MHL interface an SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert sound and electrical signals in both directions. At least some components of the audio module may be included in the input output interface as shown in for example. The audio module may process sound information inputted outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone and or the microphone .

The camera module as a device for capturing a still image and a video may include at least one image sensor for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown for example an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage the power of the electronic device . Although not shown in the drawings the power management module may include a power management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge for example.

The PMIC may be built in an IC or SoC semiconductor for example. A charging method may be classified into a wired method and a wireless method. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent overvoltage or overcurrent flow from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. As the wireless charging method for example there is a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier circuit may be added.

The battery gauge may measure the remaining amount of the battery or a voltage current or temperature of the battery during charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery for example may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or part thereof for example the AP for example a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor may convert electrical signals into mechanical vibration. Although not shown in the drawings the electronic device may include a processing device for example a GPU for mobile TV support. A processing device for mobile TV support may process media data according to the standards such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above mentioned components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with at least one component and the name of a corresponding component may vary according to the kind of an electronic device. An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be configured including at least one of the above mentioned components or additional other components. Additionally some components of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure are combined and configured as one entity so that functions of previous corresponding components are performed identically.

The term module used in this disclosure for example may mean a unit including a combination of at least one of hardware software and firmware. The term module and the term unit logic logical block component and or circuit may be interchangeably used. Module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrally configured component. Module may be a minimum unit performing at least one function or part thereof Module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example module used in this disclosure may include at least one of an application specific IC ASIC chip performing certain operations field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device all of which are known or to be developed in the future.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device includes the communication interface and the processor as illustrated in . The communication interface advertises a request signal. The communication interface receives a response signal from another electronic device receiving the request signal. The processor updates the request signal to include identification information identifying at least part of the other electronic device. The communication interface advertises the updated request signal and receives the response signal from part of the other electronic device.

Referring to the first electronic device as illustrated in may advertise a signal hereinafter referred to as a request signal requesting specified information from a neighboring electronic device for example the second electronic device as illustrated in in operation . The request signal may be a message transmitted to a plurality of unspecified second electronic devices around the first electronic device . The first electronic device may advertise a request signal to start searching for the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in operation the first electronic device may receive a response signal advertised from the second electronic device receiving the request signal. The response signal may be a signal notifying that the second electronic device is located within a communication available range of the first electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the response signal may include identification information identifying the second electronic device receiving a request signal. The identification information may be a unique identifier for identifying a specific second electronic device from another electronic device on a network. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the identification information may be device information for example the media access control MAC address or identification ID of the second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may advertise a request signal including identification information of at least part of the second electronic device . When receiving identification information from at least part of the second electronic device the first electronic device may update the request signal to include the identification information. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may advertise the updated request signal including identification information and the second electronic device may check identification information in the updated request signal and determine whether to transmit a response signal continuously. For example when the identification information identifying the second electronic device itself is included in the updated request signal the second electronic device may limit or stop advertising a response signal.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device determines at least part of the second electronic device according to a specified condition and may include the identification information identifying the at least part in a request signal. The at least part may be an electronic device that does not need to receive an additional request signal by sufficiently receiving packets necessary for a device search through the first electronic device . The first electronic device may limit advertising an additional response signal from the at least part to improve the efficiency of communication with another second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may receive a response signal continuously from the remaining second electronic device except for at least part of the second electronic device determined in operation . The first electronic device may limit advertising an additional response signal to the second electronic device that sufficiently transmits packets necessary for a device search in response to the updated request signal. On the other hand the first electronic device may continuously advertise a response signal to the second electronic device that insufficiently transmits packets necessary for a device search.

Referring to the first electronic device as illustrated in may advertise a request signal in operation . The first electronic device may start searching for the neighboring second electronic device as illustrated in by advertising a request signal.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may receive a response signal including identification information from the second electronic device receiving the request signal in operation . The second electronic device may advertise a response signal in response to a request signal received from the first electronic device . The response signal may include identification information identifying the second electronic device . For example the response signal may include the MAC address of the second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may update the request signal to include identification information identifying at least part of the second electronic device . The at least part may be an electronic device that does not need to receive an additional request signal by sufficiently receiving packets necessary for a device search through the first electronic device . The first electronic device may determine at least part of the second electronic device that does not need to advertise an additional response signal according to a specified condition.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may determine the at least part based on an intensity of a response signal received from the second electronic device . The intensity of the response signal may be determined according to the amount of packets received by the first electronic device for a predetermined time. For example the first electronic device may determine a second electronic device transmitting a response signal of more than a predetermined reference intensity as the at least part. The first electronic device may compare the amount of response signals received from the second electronic device and the amount of reference packets for example 50 Bytes for a predetermined time for example 160 ms . When the first electronic device receives request signals of 60 Bytes 50 Bytes and 40 Bytes respectively from the second electronic device the second electronic device and a second electronic device as illustrated in the first electronic device may determine the second electronic device and the second electronic device receiving a packet of more than 50 Bytes that is the amount of reference packet as the at least part. The first electronic device may update a request signal to include the identification information identifying the second electronic device and the second electronic device

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may determine the at least part based on the intensity of a response signal received from the second electronic device . The intensity of the response signal may be determined according to the number of packets received by the first electronic device for a predetermined time.

For example the first electronic device may determine a second electronic device transmitting a response signal of more than a predetermined reference intensity as the at least part. The first electronic device may compare the amount of response signals received from the second electronic device and the number of reference packets for example 6 for a predetermined time for example 160 ms . When the first electronic device receives 10 5 and 8 request signals respectively from the second electronic device the second electronic device and the second electronic device the first electronic device may determine the second electronic device and the third electronic device receiving more than 6 packets that is the number of reference packets as the at least part. The first electronic device may update a request signal to include the identification information identifying the second electronic device and the second electronic device

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may determine a predetermined number of parts in the second electronic device according to the intensity of a response signal. For example the first electronic device may update a request signal to include identification information identifying four second electronic devices having the strongest intensity of a signal in the neighboring second electronic device . According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may determine a predetermined ratio of the second electronic device as the at least part according to the intensity of a response signal. For example the first electronic device may update a request signal to include identification information identifying second electronic devices of 60 having the strongest intensity of a signal in the second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may advertise the updated request signal. The updated request signal may include identification information identifying at least part of the second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may determine whether to advertise a response signal continuously by checking the updated request signal. The second electronic device may check from a request signal whether the identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in a specific field hereinafter referred to as a reception rejection field where the identification information identifying the second electronic device is stored. When the identifier of the second electronic device is not included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device determines that the intensity of a response signal advertised by the second electronic device is weaker than those of others and may advertise a response signal continuously. On the other hand when the identifier of the second electronic device is included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device determines that the intensity of a response signal advertised by the second electronic device is stronger than those of others and may stop advertising a response signal.

In operation the first electronic device may receive the response signal from the second electronic device under a specified condition. The first electronic device may receive a response signal from the second electronic device whose identification information is not included in the updated request signal. The first electronic device may continuously receive a response signal from the second electronic device whose response signal is relatively weak.

Referring to a first electronic device may advertise a request signal . A second electronic device e.g. second electronic device may advertise a response signal in response to the request signal received from the first electronic device . The response signal may include identification information identifying the second electronic device advertising the response signal

Each of the second electronic device the second electronic device the second electronic device and the second electronic device may have a different intensity of response signals and advertised according to each device communication environment. For example the intensities of response signals of the second electronic device and the second electronic device may be weak relatively. On the other hand the intensities of response signals of the second electronic device and the second electronic device may be strong relatively. Accordingly during a same time the first electronic device may receive a relatively small amount of packets with respect to the response signals of the second electronic device and the second electronic device and may receive a large amount of packets with respect to the response signals of the second electronic device and the second electronic device

The first electronic device may update the request signal to include identification information identifying the second electronic device and the second electronic device in the reception rejection field of the request signal .

Referring to a first electronic device may advertise an updated request signal . Each of second electronic device second electronic device second electronic device and second electronic device may receive the updated request signal and may check whether identification information identifying the second electronic devices and is included in a reception rejection field of the updated request signal . When the identification information identifying the second electronic devices and is included in the reception rejection field the respective second electronic device e.g. or determines that it does not need to advertise a response signal anymore and may stop the transmission of the response signal

For example the second electronic device and the second electronic device may check that their identification information is included in the reception rejection field of the updated request signal and may not advertise the response signal anymore. On the other hand the second electronic device and the second electronic device may check that their identification information is not included in the reception rejection field of the updated request signal and may advertise the response signal continuously. The first electronic device may receive the response signal only from the second electronic device and the second electronic device whose response signal has a relatively weak intensity. Through this the first electronic device may receive packets of more than a specified amount from all the second electronic devices.

Referring to the second electronic device of may receive a request signal advertised from the first electronic device of in operation .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in operation the second electronic device may advertise a response signal including identification information identifying the second electronic device in response to the request signal received from the first electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may receive an updated request signal from the first electronic device . The updated request signal may include identification information identifying the at least part of the second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may check whether its identification information is included in a reception rejection field of the updated request information.

In operation when the identification of the second electronic device is not included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device may advertise a response signal continuously. On the other hand in operation when the identification of the second electronic device is included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device may stop advertising a response signal.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the identification of the second electronic device is included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device may advertise a response signal after a preset time or a time set in an updated request signal. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure when the identification of the second electronic device is included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device may set a transmission power of a response signal to be lower than before. When the intensity of a response signal of the second electronic device is relatively strong the second electronic device may lower a transmission power of the response signal to be less than a preset transmission power or a transmission power set in the updated request signal to advertise the response signal with an intensity similar to that of another second electronic device.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure when the identification of the second electronic device is included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device may set a period of advertising a response signal to be longer. When the period of a response signal of the second electronic device is relatively short the second electronic device may set the period of the response signal to be longer at a period similar to that of another second electronic device. The second electronic device may prevent the duplication of a packet received by the first electronic device by setting a period of advertising a response signal to be a preset period or a period set in an updated request signal. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure when the identification of the second electronic device is included in the reception rejection field the second electronic device may stop advertising until an additional request is received from the first electronic device . The second electronic device may resume advertising a response signal when the first electronic device transmits an additional request.

Referring to the first electronic device of may transmit receive data to from the second electronic device of through Bluetooth low energy BLE communication. The first electronic device may configure a request signal with an advertising packet according to BLE communication standards. However the request signal is not limited to a configuration by BLE communication method and may have a configuration by another broadcasting or multicasting communication method.

The BLE communication may be implemented with an active method and a passive method. The active method may include transmitting the advertising packet by the first electronic device transmitting a scan request signal corresponding thereto by the second electronic device and transmitting receiving data by transmitting a scan response signal by the first electronic device again. On the other hand the passive method may include transmitting the advertising packet only from the first electronic device . A request signal may be implemented with the advertising packet in both the active method and the passive method.

The advertising packet may include a header field an advertising data field and an error test field . The header field may include packet information such as a preamble an advertising access address an advertising header a payload length and an advertiser address AdvA . The advertising data field may include advertising data transmitted from a device. The error test field may be a field for checking whether a packet error occurs by for example a cyclic redundancy check CRC .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the advertising data field may be 32 bytes and may be divided into an information field and a data field . The information field may include information for example a length of the advertising data field a flag flag data type information version information company ID information and or additional length information. The data field may include a reception rejection field .

The first electronic device may store at least part of identification information identifying the second electronic device in the reception rejection field . The second electronic device having the identification information stored in the reception rejection field may be an electronic device whose response signal has a relatively strong intensity. The second electronic device may check a storage content of the reception rejection field and when the identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the reception rejection field may not advertise a response signal any more. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the reception rejection field may serve as a role for the transmission pause or transmission resetting of a response signal in addition to the transmission stop of a response signal.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure after searching the second electronic device through the advertising packet for a specified time the first electronic device may advertise a function execution signal using at least part of the second electronic device as a target. The function execution signal may be a signal for requesting to perform a specific function in the second electronic device . After searching the second electronic device for a specified time the first electronic device may store in the data field identification information identifying part of the second electronic device included in a communication space and information regarding a specific function. When identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the data field the second electronic device may check the information regarding a function and may then perform the function. For example the first electronic device may store in the data field identification information identifying the second electronic device and the second electronic device as illustrated in and information for Wi Fi Direct connection. The second electronic device and the second electronic device may check the identification information and the information for Wi Fi Direct connection and may attempt the Wi Fi Direct connection with the first electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a device searching method may include advertising by the first electronic device a request signal receiving by the first electronic device a response signal from the second electronic device having received the request signal updating by the first electronic device the request signal to include identification information identifying at least part of the second electronic device advertising by the first electronic device the updated request signal and receiving by the first electronic device the response signal from at least part of the second electronic device .

The updating and the advertising of the request signal may include determining by the first electronic device the at least part of the second electronic device based on an intensity of the response signal and updating by the first electronic device a request signal to include the identification information identifying the at least part of the second electronic device. For example the determining of the at least part may include determining by the first electronic device the second electronic device transmitting the response signal of more than a predetermined reference intensity as the at least part. Additionally the determining of the at least part may include determining by the first electronic device a predetermined number in the second electronic device as the at least part. The determining of the at least part may include determining by the first electronic device a predetermined ratio in the second electronic device as the at least part.

The intensity of the response signal may be determined according to a number or an amount of packets received by the first electronic device for a predetermined time. It is characterized that the request signal may include at least one field of reception rejection transmission stop and transmission resetting and the identification information identifying the at least part is stored in the field.

The method may further include advertising by the first electronic device a function execution signal on a specific second electronic device based on a reception result of the response signal. Additionally it is characterized that the method may be performed through short range wireless communication including BLE.

It is characterized that the response signal includes the identification information identifying the second electronic device . It is characterized that the identification information corresponds to information identifying an electronic device for example the MAC address or ID of the second electronic device .

A device searching method may include receiving by the second electronic device a request signal from the first electronic device advertising by the second electronic device a response signal including identification information receiving by the second electronic device an updated request signal from the first electronic device checking by the second electronic device whether identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the updated request signal and advertising by the second electronic device the response signal when the identification information identifying the second electronic device is not included in the request signal.

When the identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the updated request signal the method may further include advertising by the second electronic device the response signal after a preset time or a time included in the updated request signal.

When the identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the updated request signal the method may further include advertising by the second electronic device the response signal with a transmission power less than that in the updated request signal. When the identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the updated request signal the method may further include stopping by the second electronic device to advertise the response signal.

When the identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the updated request signal the method may further include advertising by the second electronic device the response signal at a preset period or a period included in the updated request signal. When the identification information identifying the second electronic device is included in the updated request signal the method may further include advertising by the second electronic device the response signal as receiving an additional request signal.

It is characterized that the identification information corresponds to information identifying an electronic device for example the MAC address or ID of the second electronic device . It is characterized that the method may be performed through short range wireless communication including BLE.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure repetitive and unnecessary data transmission may be reduced by limiting the data transmission of at least part of an electronic device on a predetermined space.

Additionally according to various embodiments of the present disclosure overall network complexity may be reduced by reducing the amount of packets advertised on a predetermined space and accordingly overall data reception rate may be increased.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

