---

title: Integrated circuit topologies for discrete circuits
abstract: Various embodiments that pertain to electronic element matching are described. Having electronic elements, such as transistors, matching can be relatively easy in an integrated circuit environment. Transitioning to a discrete circuit environment, finding electronics elements that match one another can be more challenging. If the electronic elements themselves do not match, then their outputs will not match. To compensate for these mismatches, when one wants the outputs to be matched, an output of one of the electronic elements can be modified so that the outputs are matched. Therefore, a discrete circuit can be produced that functions similarly to that of an integrated circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613178&OS=09613178&RS=09613178
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09613178
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

An electrical circuit designer can want to create a circuit with elements that have matching physical characteristics. The designer can select to use an integrated circuit to produce the circuit with elements that have matching physical characteristics. This matching can occur with relative ease because in the integrated circuit the elements share a substrate. However if the designer wants to use a discrete circuit as opposed to the integrated circuit then the substrate is not available for the matching and this can make matching more difficult.

In one embodiment a system comprises a determination component and a compensation component. The determination component can be configured to make a determination that an output of a first discrete electronic element that is part of a circuit and an output of a second discrete electronic element that is part of the circuit do not match. The compensation component can be configured to perform a compensation upon the circuit such that the output of the first discrete electronic element and the output of the second discrete electronic element match. The determination component the compensation component or a combination thereof is implemented at least in part by way of non software.

In one embodiment a method is performed by a circuit management apparatus. The method comprises obtaining a first voltage change from across a first measurement resistor where the first measurement resistor is associated with a first transistor. The method also comprises calculating a current through the first measurement resistor by use of the first voltage change. The method further comprises obtaining a second voltage change from across a second measurement resistor where the second measurement resistor is associated with a second transistor. In addition the method comprises calculating a current through the second measurement resistor by use of the second voltage change. Further the method comprises determining if a difference that is undesired exists between the current through the first measurement resistor and the current through the second measurement resistor. The method additionally comprises computing a value for a discrete compensation resistor when it is determined that the difference does exist where the value is based at least in part on the difference between the current through the first measurement resistor and the current through the second measurement resistor. The method also comprises setting the discrete compensation resistor to implement with the value such that the current of the first transistor and the current of the second transistor match where the discrete compensation resistor is associated with the second transistor.

In one embodiment a system comprises a differential pair comprising a first discrete transistor and a second discrete transistor where the current of the first discrete transistor does not match with a current of the second discrete transistor. The system also comprises a first discrete measurement hardware component that is physically coupled to the first discrete transistor and that produces an information set of the current of the first discrete transistor and a second discrete measurement hardware component that is physically coupled to the second discrete transistor and that produces an information set of the current of the second discrete transistor. Additionally the system comprises a discrete compensation resistor that is physically coupled to the second discrete transistor and that performs a modification to the current of the second discrete transistor to produce a modified current of the second discrete transistor where the current of the first discrete transistor and the modified current of the second transistor match. The modification can be based at least in part on the information set of the current of the first discrete transistor and the information set of the current of the second discrete transistor.

When creating a circuit with discrete components it can be difficult to find discrete elements that actually match e.g. elements that have the same cross sectional area and or have the same doping profile . Even if two transistors have the same part number the value common emitter current gain of the two transistors can vary widely between them. Transistors can be similar but a difference of one micrometer from one transistor to another can produce results such that the transistors are not matched. Further even if two discrete transistors do physically match the transistors may have different temperatures in operation and therefore still not fully match. Having the temperature of these transistors match while current is in operation can be important since electrical characteristics can vary with temperature. Since discrete transistors do not share a substrate the chances of their temperature matching are extremely small. If the temperatures do not match then the discrete transistors themselves do not match and in turn their outputs do not match.

With practice of aspects disclosed herein a discrete circuit can function similarly to an integrated circuit. This similar functioning can include functioning as if there is temperature and physical matching of electronic element characteristics. Since the discrete circuit does not have the substrate of the integrated circuit the discrete circuit can cause physical matching of elements such as transistors through a feedback system. Voltage and or current can be measured for a first transistor and a second transistor that are part of the discrete circuit such as part of a differential pair. If the voltages or currents of the transistors do not match then a resistor associated with one of the transistors can have its value modified. The modification of this value can cause the output of the transistors to match. Therefore the discrete circuit can emulate an integrated circuit.

Aspects disclosed herein can be practiced at least in the fields of circuit design analog electronics and electronic instrumentation. In one example aspects disclosed herein can be used in making a prototype of a circuit with discrete elements. Having a manufacturer make a prototype of an integrated circuit can be cost prohibitive. Therefore it can be advantageous to make a prototype with a discrete circuit since it can be cheaper. With this the prototype can be for a circuit intended to be manufactured as an integrated circuit.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single component between multiple components. The term component and the term module can be used interchangeably to have the same meaning.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

In one embodiment as opposed to using the first measurement resistor and or the second measurement resistor non invasive current sensors can be used. These current sensors could measure the current directly as opposed to measuring voltage across a resistor. The resistors and as well as the current sensors can be examples of measurement hardware components. Whether resistors and are used or current sensors the same approach can be applied.

If the currents are equal for both transistors and then the compensation resistor has a value of about zero compensation is not performed . However if the current of the first transistor does not match with a current of the second transistor then the compensation resistor can operate. The compensation resistor can be physically coupled to the second transistor and can perform a modification to the current of the second transistor . This modification can change the current of the second transistor into a modified current of the second transistor that matches the current of the first transistor . The modification can be based at least in part on the information set of the current of the first transistor and the information set of the current of the second transistor .

While the system is illustrated with one compensation resistor it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that more than one compensation resistor can be used. In one example in addition to the compensation resistor being physically coupled to the second transistor a second compensation resistor can be physically coupled to the first transistor in an equivalent location to that of the compensation resistor . This way if the current is higher for the first transistor than the second transistor then appropriate compensation can occur so currents match.

While the system addresses transistors and it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that other electronic elements can be used and thus be matched. In one example two diodes can be matched through aspects disclosed herein. Further while the system illustrates matching of two electronic elements more than two electronic elements can be matched together if desired. In one example the matched elements can be medal oxide field effect transistors MOSFETs or bipolar junction transistors BJTs .

In one example with the transistors and being BJTs their emitters can be tied together and the bases of the BJTs can comprise input of the differential pair while collectors of the BJTs can comprise the output of the differential pair. The goal can be for the system as a circuit to produce an about zero output voltage when input voltage to the bases is about equal. With this the differential pair responds to voltage differences while rejecting identical voltage signals.

With these differences the controller can determine if the outputs for the transistors and match. If values of the resistors and are about the same and the voltage drops are different then the controller can identify that the currents are different. Based on this difference the controller can calculate the value of the compensation resistor to have the currents match and cause the compensation resistor to implement with the value.

In one example the resistors and can have about the same value such as about 1 Ohm . The voltage drop across the first measurement resistor can be 1 Volts V while the voltage drop across the second measurement resistor can be 2V. Therefore the current can calculated as 1 Amp A for the transistor due to current equaling 1V 1 and 2 A for the transistor due to current equaling 2V 1 . The compensation resistor can be set at 1 such that the total resistance for the combination of resistors and is 2 and this can cause the output currents to match at 1 A.

After the controller sets the value of the compensation resistor the analog to digital converter the input switch and the controller can continue to perform their respective functionality. Multiple changes can occur in the system or for example the system of . In one example over time the transistors and can experience changes such that currents start to differ over time. In another example voltage provided by the voltage sources can change e.g. by technician instruction . The input switch can continuously cycle among the four positions and the analog to digital converter and controller can work to update the compensation resistor so that the currents continue to match when a change occurs.

The compensation component can be configured to perform a compensation upon the circuit such that the output of the first discrete electronic element and the output of the second discrete electronic element match. This compensation can be performed in different manners. In one embodiment the compensation component performs the compensation through adjustment of a bias of at least one of the first discrete electronic element or the second discrete electronic element. In this embodiment this adjustment can comprise adjusting a direct current voltage or current for the discrete electronic element. The compensation component can comprise logic to determine what electronic element bias to modify how modification should occur and to what degree or if adjustment of the bias should be the modification type.

In one embodiment the compensation component performs the compensation through adjustment of a value of a variable resistor e.g. the compensation resistor of associated with the first discrete electronic element. The compensation component can be configured to select the value of the variable resistor based at least in part on the output of the first discrete electronic element and the output of the second discrete electronic element. The variable resistor can modify at least one of the output of the first discrete electronic element or the output of the second discrete electronic element. The compensation component can compare the output of the first discrete electronic element against the output of the second discrete electronic element to create a comparison result. The compensation component can determine if there is a difference between the output of the first discrete electronic element and the output of the second discrete electronic element. If there is no difference then the outputs match and the value of the variable resistor can be unchanged. Conversely if there is a difference then the outputs do not match and setting or changing the value may be appropriate. When there is a difference the compensation component can select and implement the value.

While discussion herein relates to a difference between the outputs an actual implementation may be used that distinguishes between a desired difference and an undesired difference. Using the system of as an example circuit in this paragraph the transistors and should be matched so that the circuit as a whole responds to voltages. A circuit designer should be careful so that the circuit fails to respond to any external voltage. To put another way the compensation resistor should not be configured to compensate for every difference just differences from arising from physical differences of the transistors and themselves an undesired difference as opposed to a signal input difference a desired difference . To achieve this a circuit designer can design a system in accordance with aspects disclosed herein such that the system can distinguish between a desired difference and an undesired difference.

Distinguishing between a desired difference and an undesired difference can be performed by the compensation component . The compensation component can determine if the difference is a desired difference or is not desired. The compensation component can select the value and in turn cause the variable resistor to implement with the value when the difference is not desired and when the difference is desired the variable resistor can remain unchanged.

The compensation component can determine if the difference is desirable in various manners depending on circuit design. In one embodiment the desired difference is that the difference meets a set threshold e.g. exceeds the set threshold or reaches the set threshold . This can be used such that a difference such as a current difference is neglected when above a certain amount. The compensation component can determine if the difference is desired or not depending on if the difference is constant or if the difference is time varying. If the difference is non constant such as being time varying then the difference can be classified as desired while a constant difference can be considered as undesired and therefore be subject to correction with the variable resistor. The compensation component can be configured to not function such as by being disabled when an input signal is applied to the circuit. Once the input signal is no longer applied the compensation component can continue to operate.

The determination component and the compensation component can function continuously. Once the compensation component performs the compensation the determination component can continuously determine if the outputs continue to match or not. This lack of matching can occur with physical changes to the electronic elements over time. If a lack of matching is determined subsequent to the compensation then the compensation component can perform another compensation to cause the outputs to match.

At calculating a current through the first measurement resistor of can occur by use of the first voltage change. Also at calculating a current through the second measurement resistor of can occur by use of the second voltage change. While the obtaining and calculating of and respectively are illustrated as occurring in separate actions these can occur in one action. When occurring as separate actions the actions may or may not occur concurrently.

At determining if a difference that is undesired exists between the current through the first measurement resistor and the current through the second measurement resistor takes place. If the difference is desired then the method can function as if there is no difference and the method can return to to obtain changes. If the difference is undesired then the method can function as if there is a difference and continue.

At a value for compensation resistor of can be computed. This computation can occur when it is determined at that the difference does exist. The value can be based at least in part on the difference between the current through the first measurement resistor of and the current through the second measurement resistor of .

At the compensation resistor of can be set to implement with the value. This implementation can be such that the current of the first transistor of and the current of the second transistor of match. In one embodiment the method can return to obtaining change information at once the value is set. This can be to verify that the value is accurately compensating such that the transistors match. If accurate compensation is not occurring then the method can function again to change the value.

The compensation can be initially accurate but as time goes on the transistors can physically change such that the uncompensated difference changes and therefore the value no longer performs adequate compensation. This can be identified through actions and . At determining if the current through the first measurement resistor of does not match the current through the second measurement resistor of FIG. after the discrete compensation resistor is set at occurs. If the current through the first measurement resistor of does not match the current through the second measurement resistor of then computing a second value e.g. that is different from the value previously set for the compensation resistor of can occur. The compensation resistor of can be set to implement with the second value such that the current of the first transistor of and the current of the second transistor of match.

The method can be performed by a circuit management apparatus. One example of the circuit management apparatus comprises the analog to digital converter of and the controller of . In this example the analog to digital converter of obtains the change information through measurement and transfers the information to the controller of and the controller of performs the other actions. In one example circuit management apparatus comprises the controller of . The controller of can obtain the change information through collection of the change information from a measurement source e.g. the analog to digital converter of .

While the methods disclosed herein are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the methods are not restricted by the order of the blocks as some blocks can take place in different orders. Similarly a block can operate concurrently with at least one other block. Moreover designations of first and second are intended merely for identification purposes and not intended to provide any indication of timed order of function physical location superiority importance etc.

