---

title: Apparatus and process for producing porous devices
abstract: In general, in various embodiments, the present disclosure is directed systems and methods for producing a porous surface from a solid piece of polymer. In particular, the present disclosure is directed to systems that include a track assembly, mold assembly, press assembly, and methods for using the same for producing a porous surface from a solid piece of polymer. In some embodiments, the present systems and methods are directed to processing a polymer at a temperature below a melting point of the polymer to produce a solid piece of polymer with an integrated a porous surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09517593&OS=09517593&RS=09517593
owner: VERTERA, INC.
number: 09517593
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151230
---
This Application is a continuation in part application and claims the benefit of and priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 747 660 filed Jun. 23 2015 entitled Medical Device with Porous Surface and Method for Producing Same by Wei Hsiang Chang et al which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 587 856 filed Dec. 31 2014 entitled Method for Producing Porous Material by Wei Hsiang Chang et al. now U.S. Pat. No. 9 085 665 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein as if set forth herein in their entireties and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 752 762 filed Jun. 26 2015 entitled Porous Devices and Processes for Producing Same by Wei Hsiang Chang et al pending which is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 587 856 filed Dec. 31 2014 entitled Method for Producing Porous Material by Wei Hsiang Chang et al. now U.S. Pat. No. 9 085 665 and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 017 834 filed Jun. 26 2014 entitled Polymer Layer with Increased Wettability each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein as if set forth herein in their entireties.

Polymers have been shown to have many advantageous mechanical and chemical properties such as imperviousness to water low toxicity chemical and heat resistance and shape memory properties. Additionally polymers are often relatively low cost easy to manufacture and versatile in application. These characteristics have led to the use of polymers in many applications such as for example medical devices electronics optics computing and a wide array of consumer products.

Adding pores to one or more surfaces of a polymer structure may provide further advantages such as for example increasing friction at the one or more porous surfaces and providing better device integration in surgical applications by promoting adjacent tissue in growth. However as will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art introducing porosity into polymers may in some instances weaken desired mechanical properties such as shear strength at the porous surface. Thus although introducing pores into such polymers may have certain advantages it has been limited in application due to a loss in mechanical properties.

One aspect of the present disclosure generally relates to producing a porous surface from a solid piece of polymer. In particular producing a porous surface from a solid piece of polymer at a processing temperature below a melting point of the polymer to produce a solid piece of polymer with a porous surface integrated into the solid piece of polymer.

According to particular aspects a method including 1 loading a solid body of material and porogen into a mold that is configured to travel along a predetermined path 2 applying pressure via a press to the solid body of material for displacing the porogen through the surface by a defined distance creating thereby a matrix layer including the material and the porogen in the solid body of material the matrix layer being integrally connected with the solid body of material 3 maintaining via a heating element located along the predetermined path throughout the heating and displacing steps a temperature of the surface of the solid body that is below the melting temperature by at least the melting temperature differential and 4 unloading the solid body of material from the mold and removing the porogen to create an integrally connected porous layer in the solid body of material.

According to at least one aspect a method for processing material the method comprising 1 providing a piece of polymer for processing 2 pressing a surface of the piece of polymer against a layer of porogen via a static weight 3 while the piece of polymer is pressed against the layer of porogen subjecting the piece of polymer to at least one heat zone along a track assembly wherein the at least one heat zone heats the material to a particular temperature for a particular time 4 further pressing the piece of polymer against the layer of porogen via a press assembly such that at least a portion of the layer of porogen is displaced through a surface of the piece of polymer to create a matrix layer of porogen and the polymer and 5 removing the porogen from the matrix layer of the polymer thereby creating a porous layer of the polymer.

According to some aspects a method comprising 1 loading a solid body of material and porogen into a mold 2 heating via a heating element located along a processing path a surface of the solid body of material to a processing temperature that is below a melting temperature of the material by a melting temperature differential 3 increasing heat from the processing temperature while applying a constant pressure to the solid body of material for displacing the porogen through the surface by a defined distance creating thereby a matrix layer including the material and the porogen in the solid body of material the matrix layer being integrally connected with the solid body of material 4 maintaining throughout the heating and displacing steps the constant pressure on the solid body of material 5 cooling the solid body of material once the porogen is displaced through the surface by a defined distance and 6 unloading the solid body of material from the mold and removing the porogen to create an integrally connected porous layer in the solid body of material.

According to one or more aspects a method for processing material the method comprising 1 providing a thermoplastic for processing 2 providing a porogen for creating a porous layer in the thermoplastic 3 providing a track assembly comprising at least one heating element for heating the thermoplastic 4 providing a static weight for applying a constant pressure to the thermoplastic 5 providing a press assembly for applying an increased pressure to the thermoplastic 6 loading the porogen and thermoplastic onto the track assembly wherein a surface of the thermoplastic is in contact with the porogen 7 applying the constant pressure to the thermoplastic via the static weight and applying heat to the thermoplastic via the heating element 8 applying the increased pressure to the thermoplastic via the press assembly for displacing the porogen through the surface of the thermoplastic 9 removing the increased pressure and heat from the thermoplastic to allow the thermoplastic to cool 10 removing the constant pressure from the thermoplastic and 11 removing the porogen from the thermoplastic thereby creating a porous layer of the thermoplastic integrally formed within a surface of the thermoplastic.

In various embodiments an apparatus for processing a material the apparatus comprising 1 a work bench assembly 2 a mold assembly the mold assembly comprising a an outer mold body defining an opening for receiving a mold insert b the mold insert comprising a void for receiving a layer of porogen and a piece of thermoplastic material and c a static weight for applying pressure to the a piece of thermoplastic material 3 a track assembly operatively connected to the work bench assembly the track assembly comprising a a frame b at least one track guide operatively connected to the frame the at least one track guide defining a path of travel for the mold assembly c two or more electrical resistance heating elements located under the at least one track guide wherein the two or more electrical resistance heating elements heat the mold assembly to at least one predetermined processing temperature and d one or more indexers for moving the mold assembly along the path of travel and 4 a press operatively connected to the work bench assembly the press assembly for applying pressure the piece of the thermoplastic material wherein the pressure applied by the press is in addition to the pressure applied by the static weight.

In particular embodiments an apparatus for processing a material the apparatus comprising 1 a mold the mold configured to receive a porogen and a piece of material for processing 2 a track for guiding the mold along a predefined processing path 3 a heating element at a first particular portion of the processing path for heating the material and 4 a press for applying force to the material at a second particular portion of the processing path.

In at least one embodiment an apparatus for producing a porous material the apparatus comprising four 4 sections wherein 1 a first section of the apparatus comprises an area for loading a solid piece of material and porogen into a mold 2 a second section of the apparatus comprises a first heating element for heating the solid piece of material to a particular processing temperature 3 a third section of the apparatus comprises a second heating element for holding the processing temperature and 4 a further section of the apparatus comprises a press for applying pressure to the piece of material for causing the porogen to displace within a surface of the piece of material.

In some embodiments an apparatus for producing a porous material the apparatus comprising 1 a means for receiving a particular piece of material and at least one layer of porogen 2 a means for pressing the particular piece of material against the at least one layer of porogen and 3 a means for guiding the particular piece of material along a predefined path wherein the predefined path includes a a means for heating the particular piece of material to a particular processing temperature and b a means for applying pressure to the particular piece of material to displace at least some of the at least one layer of porogen into the particular piece of material.

These and other aspects features and benefits of the claimed systems and methods will become apparent from the following detailed written description of the preferred embodiments and aspects taken in conjunction with the following drawings although variations and modifications thereto may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

This application is related to and incorporates by reference herein the following U.S. patent applications 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 997 343 entitled Material and Method for Producing the Same filed on Jun. 12 2009 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 935 478 entitled Porous Polymer Layer and Methods of Manufacture filed Jul. 3 2013 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 747 660 entitled Medical Device with Porous Surface and Method for Producing Same filed Jun. 23 2015 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 587 856 entitled Method for Producing Porous Material filed Dec. 31 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 085 665 and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 752 762 entitled Porous Devices and Processes for Producing Same filed Jun. 26 2015.

Any incorporation by reference is not intended to give a definitive or limiting meaning of a particular term. In the case of a conflict of terms this document governs.

Whether or not a term is capitalized is not considered definitive or limiting of the meaning of a term. As used in this document a capitalized term shall have the same meaning as an uncapitalized term unless the context of the usage specifically indicates that a more restrictive meaning for the capitalized term is intended. However the capitalization or lack thereof within the remainder of this document is not intended to be necessarily limiting unless the context clearly indicates that such limitation is intended.

For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the disclosure is thereby intended any alterations and further modifications of the described or illustrated embodiments and any further applications of the principles of the disclosure as illustrated therein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates. All limitations of scope should be determined in accordance with and as expressed in the claims.

According to particular embodiments the systems and methods herein are directed to an apparatus and process for producing porous materials. Prior to delving into the specific details of the apparatus a brief and non limiting explanation of an exemplary process of producing porous material may assist with understanding the processes set forth herein. In particular embodiments an exemplary process for producing porous materials includes 1 heating a surface of a solid piece of polymer to a processing temperature below a melting point of the polymer 2 holding the processing temperature while displacing a porogen layer through the surface of the polymer to create a matrix layer of the solid polymer body comprising the polymer and the porogen layer and 3 removing at least a portion of the porogen layer from polymer. In one or more embodiments the processing temperature is approximately one 1 to 38 degrees below a melting point of a polymer. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different polymers may have different melting temperatures and some polymers may exhibit melting properties at more than one temperature.

This exemplary process results in interfacial shear strength between the porous layer and solid polymer body that increases with longer processing times that are above a predetermined processing temperature Tp but below a melting point of the polymer. Further pressure applied to exert polymer flow of polyetheretherketone PEEK at a constant rate is significantly correlated statistically i.e. p value less than 0.05 as calculated by linear regression analysis with processing time above a defined processing temperature of 330 degrees Celsius for up to 30 to 45 minutes. This correlation is counter to expected results and indicates that polymer flow viscosity increases with increased processing time below PEEK s melting point of 343 degrees Celsius e.g. increased processing time at about one to 13 degrees below 343 degrees Celsius or between about 330 and 342 degrees Celsius .

As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art polymer flow or polymer flow viscosity as used herein may refer to any flow of a particular polymer and may not necessarily mean flow of a polymer above a melting point of the particular polymer. In specific embodiments polymer flow and polymer flow viscosity refer to flow of a polymer below a melting point of the polymer. Alternately polymer flow or polymer flow viscosity may be referred to as polymer resistance to displacement or the like.

As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art any suitable materials may be used in the above process. In at least one embodiment the polymer in the above exemplary process is polyetheretherketone PEEK . In one or more embodiments the porogen in the above exemplary process is sodium chloride grains arranged in one or more layers such that when the polymer is heated it at least partially flows between the gaps of the layers of the sodium chloride particles.

The above exemplary process is further discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 747 660 entitled Medical Device with Porous Surface and Method for Producing Same filed Jun. 23 2015 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This exemplary process may be substantially conducted in whole or in part by the systems and methods discussed herein. In particular embodiments an exemplary processing system apparatus includes 1 one or more molds for holding a piece of material for processing 2 a guide path or track mechanism for guiding the one or more molds along a predefined path 3 at least one heating element for heating the one or more molds to a particular temperature or temperature range along the predefined path and 4 a press for applying pressure to the one or more molds to displace porogen through a surface of the piece of material.

The apparatuses and processes above will be discussed in more detail below and in reference to the figures. In particular an exemplary process for creating a porous device will be described below. Following this discussion of the exemplary process an exemplary apparatus for conducting the exemplary process will be discussed.

As will be further discussed the systems and methods herein are directed to a system and process for producing porous materials. provides a brief overview of an exemplary system for processing a piece of material e.g. thermoplastic to include a porous layer. depict the exemplary system of as an exemplary mold assembly e.g. of the one or more mold assemblies shown in proceeds through the exemplary process.

Turning to an exemplary processing machine is shown. In the embodiment shown the exemplary processing machine includes a track assembly one or more mold assemblies a press assembly and a work bench assembly . As will further be discussed herein the track assembly in this embodiment includes one or more indexers for moving the one or more mold assemblies along a pre defined path and one or more heating elements in this embodiment the one or more heating elements are located below the surface of the track assembly and are not shown in for heating the one or more mold assemblies . As will also be further discussed herein the one or more mold assemblies may each include a mold an insert for holding a piece of material and porogen and a static weight for applying pressure to the piece of material.

In the embodiment shown the particular mold assembly A begins in zone then is moved or indexed to zone then to zone and to zone . Further in the embodiment shown the mold assembly A is shown moving from the front right side of the track assembly in to the front left side of the track assembly in . As will be understood from discussions herein this particular path is exemplary and an exemplary mold assembly or a different type of assembly mold or piece could move along track assembly in a different pattern e.g. in a reverse order etc. .

Turning to an exemplary mold assembly A is shown at the front right of the exemplary track assembly in zone . In various embodiments zone is an area along track assembly for loading material porogen and inserts into molds and for placing a static weight onto the material e.g. to press a surface of the material onto the porogen . In particular embodiments zone is defined as an area from a thermal insulator to a front right corner of the track assembly e.g. against indexer B . In some embodiments zone may be longer or shorter than as shown in . As a particular example the first thermal insulator may be in an alternate location such as closer to the indexer A. Thus in this example zone may extend from the first thermal insulator at this alternate location.

As a second particular example the track assembly may not include thermal insulator. In this second particular example zone may extend from the indexer B along the track to the left in the orientation shown in for a predefined distance e.g. several centimeters a meter several meters etc. . Alternately zone in this second particular example may extend from the indexer B for an undefined distance or for a distance defined by the length of a single mold e.g. the mold A . Further in embodiments where the track assembly does not include the thermal insulator and also does not include indexers e.g. the system includes another mechanism for moving a mold as discussed below zone may be a predefined distance from another reference point on the track assembly and or may be defined by a particular temperature associated with this zone.

In the embodiment shown in the mold assembly A includes a mold an insert and a static weight each of which will be discussed regarding below . In this embodiment and others the insert of the mold assembly A includes a void for defining a particular shape of material. In the embodiment shown the void is defined such that it receives a predetermined amount of porogen and a piece of material in the particular shape for processing.

Continuing with in zone the mold assembly A includes a void for receiving a predetermined amount of porogen the void is shown in . The void may receive the porogen from any suitable source including for example an operator e.g. a human places a predetermined amount of porogen in the void or a porogen dispenser e.g. a dispenser automatically dispenses porogen into the void based on some sensor input such as detecting that the void has moved into position below a dispensing end of the porogen dispenser .

As discussed herein the porogen may be any suitable material. In particular embodiments the porogen includes sodium chloride crystals e.g. salt . In some embodiments the porogen is another ionic solid that can be displaced within a polymer thermoplastic and then removed. In further embodiments the porogen includes particles of one or more particular materials such as other salts sugars polymers metals etc.

The predefined amount of porogen may be any suitable amount for creating a porous surface of the material being processed. In particular embodiments the predefined amount of porogen is an amount of porogen to cover a bottom surface of the void . In some embodiments the predefined amount of porogen is packed irregular grains covering a bottom surface of the void to a depth of approximately 0.2 mm to 2.0 mm.

Once the porogen is received by the void the void receives a piece of material in the particular shape e.g. on top of the porogen . In one or more embodiments the void receives the piece of material from an operator e.g. a human may place the piece of material on the porogen in the void . In some embodiments the void receives the piece of material from a robot or material placing device or system.

As will be understood from discussions herein and from the materials incorporated herein by reference the piece of material may be any suitable polymer and may in particular embodiments be any suitable thermoplastic such as PEEK or carbon reinforced PEEK a material that is at least 50 PEEK by weight and or another suitable thermoplastic etc. .

After the piece of material is placed on the porogen a static weight is placed on top of the piece of material to press a surface of the piece of material onto the porogen. In particular embodiments the static weight is placed on the material by aligning the holes of the static weight with the pegs of the mold and sliding the static weight onto the pegs via the holes . In various embodiments the static weight may be placed on the piece of material by a human operator or a robot. The static weight will be further discussed below in regards to .

According to particular embodiments the static weight is such that the weight applies a pressure to the material of 0.1 to 10 PSI. In various embodiments the static weight is such that the weight applies a pressure of about 0.1 to 2.0 PSI.

The process above may vary. In particular embodiments the porogen and piece of material may be loaded into the insert prior to the insert being placed in the mold. In these embodiments the porogen and or the piece of material is loaded into the insert then the insert is loaded into the mold in zone . In some embodiments the insert may include pegs opposed to the mold. In these embodiments the porogen and piece of material may be loaded into the insert and the static weight may be loaded onto the piece of material e.g. via pegs on the insert in this embodiment prior to the insert being placed in the mold at zone .

After a predetermined amount of time or after a particular event the indexer B moves indexes the mold assembly A to zone the position shown in . As will be further discussed herein the indexer B may move the mold assembly A in any suitable way. As shown in the indexer B is a substantially flat arm that is connected to a hydraulic cylinder. In this embodiment the indexer B pushes the mold assembly A to zone . In alternate embodiments discussed below the indexer B may move the mold assembly A to zone through another mechanism e.g. a motor a solenoid a cam etc. 

As will be understood from discussions herein in various embodiments indexer B may index mold assembly A a distance equal to a length of the one or more mold assemblies e.g. when the one or more mold assemblies substantially fill the track assembly and are substantially touching as shown in . In these embodiments the mold assembly A will be indexed more than once before reaching the position shown in . In some embodiments the system is configured to index mold assembly A a distance other than the length of the one or more assemblies . In these embodiments the system may be configured to index the mold assembly any suitable distance down the track assembly e.g. half the length of the front portion of the track assembly a quarter of a length of the track assembly etc. .

Turning to mold assembly A is shown in zone . As discussed above in the embodiment shown zone extends from an interior wall of the track assembly e.g. in front of the indexer C to the conductor .

Zone as shown in includes one or more heating elements under the surface of the track assembly for heating the mold assembly A to a predetermined temperature. In various embodiments the track assembly further includes various sensors not shown for measuring the approximate temperature of the mold assembly A.

The predetermined temperature may be any suitable temperature. In various embodiments as discussed in the patents and patent applications incorporated herein by reference the predetermined temperature is a temperature that is below a melting point of the piece of material. For example as discussed herein a particular polymer PEEK exhibits melting temperatures at approximately 240 and 343 degrees Celsius. Thus the predetermined temperature is approximately one to thirty eight degrees below a melting point of the piece of material. In the example where the piece of material is PEEK the predetermined temperature is approximately 305 to 342 degrees Celsius. As will be understood from discussions herein the temperature of the one or more heating elements may be greater than the temperature of the piece of material e.g. some heat from the one or more heating elements is lost through heat transfer .

At a particular point in time or after a predetermined event the system moves the mold assembly A from zone to under the press assembly via the indexer C as shown in .

As shown in the press assembly is located just before the conductor e.g. in zone . Thus as will be understood from discussions herein the press assembly acts on the piece of material and the mold assembly A while the one or more heating elements of zone are supplying heat or holding a predetermined temperature to the piece of material and mold assembly A. In further embodiments not shown the press assembly may be located outside of zone or in some embodiments located in an area where no heat is being applied to the piece of material and or the mold assembly A e.g. the system in a particular embodiment is set up such that the piece of material is heated to a predetermined temperature by a heat source then moved away from the heat source to under the press assembly .

As shown in the press assembly moves from a first position e.g. at rest above the track assembly to a second position in contact with the mold assembly A e.g. in contact with the static weight and applies pressure to the mold assembly . This pressure is additional to the pressure applied by the static weight which in various embodiments is about 0.1 to 10 PSI.

The additional pressure added by the press assembly may be any suitable pressure. In particular embodiments the additional pressure added by the press assembly is up to 250 PSI. In one or more embodiments the additional pressure added by the press assembly is between 50 and 250 PSI. In at least one embodiment the additional pressure added by the press assembly is about 150 PSI.

As will be understood from discussions herein in various embodiments the additional pressure is applied to the piece of material via the static weight such that the porogen is displaced through the surface of the piece of material to any suitable depth. In a particular embodiment the porogen is displaced through the surface of the piece of material to a depth of approximately 0.2 mm to 2.0 mm.

The system may be configured to apply pressure from the press assembly to the piece of material for any suitable duration of time or until a particular event occurs. In various embodiments the duration of time that the press assembly applies pressure the piece of material and or mold assembly is predetermined and ranges from one to forty five minutes. As will be understood from discussions herein the system may include a timer or other sensor such that the press assembly automatically applies pressure to the piece of material until the timer times out or indicates that a duration of time as ended.

According to particular embodiments the system includes a displacement sensor coupled to the press assembly . In these embodiments the system is configured to determine when the piece of material has moved a predetermined distance e.g. when the porogen has displaced through the surface of the piece of material to a particular depth e.g. 0.2 to 2.0 mm . In at least one embodiment the system includes a load cell within the press assembly such that the press ram is moved to a particular position e.g. pressing a surface of a piece of material against the porogen until the load cell no longer measures force being applied to the piece of material indicating that the ram is at the particular position and is not exerting pressure on the mold assembly and thus that the porogen has displaced within the surface of the material.

In at least one embodiment the system is configured to index and or move each of the one or more mold assemblies based on the timing of the press assembly . In these embodiments the system is configured to index a particular mold assembly of the one or more mold assemblies to the next zone or to a next location upon a timer for the press assembly timing out or when a displacement or load cell sensor indicates that the piece of material has moved downward by a particular distance e.g. indicating that the porogen has displaced within a surface of the piece of material by the particular distance such as 0.2 to 2.0 mm .

Once the system receives an indication that the timer for the press assembly has timed out or that the porogen has displaced with a surface of the piece of material by the particular distance the system retracts the press actuator and the mold assembly A is indexed across the conductor to zone as shown in .

In conductor may be any suitable conductor. In particular embodiments the conductor is aluminum or other suitable heat conducting material discussed herein and conducts heat from zone to zone . In some embodiments conductor may be a thermal insulator such as a thermal insulator similar to thermal insulator for separating the heat from zone and zone .

In particular embodiments the indexer C moves the mold assembly A from under the press assembly to the position shown in e.g. in zone . As will be understood from discussions herein the indexer C may move the mold assembly A any suitable distance as discussed in regards to the indexer A and may move the mold assembly A by pushing mold assemblies closer to the indexer A a particular distance which in turn pushes the mold assembly A the particular distance.

Turning to mold assembly A is shown in zone . Zone in the embodiment shown includes one or more heating elements under the surface of the track assembly for heating or holding the mold assembly A to or at a predetermined temperature. In various embodiments the track assembly further includes various sensors not shown for measuring the approximate temperature of the mold assembly A.

The predetermined temperature may be any suitable temperature and may be the same temperature as discussed above regarding zone . In some embodiments the one or more heating elements of zone may heat the mold and piece of material to a temperature other than that of zone . As a particular example the one or more heating elements of zone may be configured to heat the mold and piece of material to a temperature higher or lower than that of zone . In some embodiments the one or more heating elements of zone may hold the mold and piece of material at the predefined temperature e.g. the system may sense the temperature of the mold assembly A and may automatically adjust the heat of the one or more heating elements to hold the mold and piece of material at the predefined temperature .

At a particular point in time or upon a particular event the system indexes the mold assembly A from zone to zone via the indexer D as shown in . In particular embodiments zone does not include any heat elements and allows the mold assembly A to cool.

According to particular embodiments after the mold assembly A cools the porogen is removed from the piece of material in any suitable way including but not limited to by leaching washing etching vaporizing volatilizing etc. For example in embodiments where the porogen layer includes sodium chloride grains some or all of the sodium chloride grains may be removed by leaching e.g. dissolving all or a portion of the porogen layer with a particular solvent .

As will be understood from discussions herein a particular piece of material may be subjected to the process above more than once. In a particular embodiment the particular piece of material may go through the process above for a first surface then again for a second surface e.g. the particular piece of material is processed for a first surface as described above then re loaded into a mold assembly such that a second surface is processed .

Beginning with exemplary track assembly is shown. As discussed above the exemplary track assembly moves the one or more mold assemblies through zones such that a piece of material loaded into each of the one or more mold assemblies is heated and pressed to create a porous device. As previously discussed the track assembly is in various embodiments broken into four zones zone zone zone and zone . Further as previously discussed the track assembly includes thermal insulator and conductor not shown in the one or more mold assemblies and the indexers A B C and D. Moreover as shown in the track assembly includes one or more side panels a top cover a wear bar a right bride a top cover a top cover a top cover a left bridge and an upper track guide .

As discussed in regards to the track assembly includes thermal insulator and conductor which in various embodiments separate the track assembly into different zones. As will be understood in the embodiment shown the thermal insulator helps keep heat isolated in zones to control the temperature of the piece of material loaded into the one or more mold assemblies .

As will be understood from discussions herein the thermal insulator may be in any suitable location. In particular embodiments the thermal insulator is located such that the one or more mold assemblies are within zones for a predetermined period of time e.g. because this zone in various embodiments applies heat to the one or more mold assemblies the distance between thermal insulator may indicate a particular processing time for a particular mold assembly . In some embodiments the thermal insulator is located at a distance that is a function of the size of the track assembly . In these embodiments and others the thermal insulator is located at approximately 60 of the distance of the front side of the track assembly e.g. as measured from the front left side of the track assembly . Further in these embodiments the conductor may be located approximately 15 of the distance of the back side of the track assembly e.g. as measured from the back left side of the track assembly .

Further as will be understood from discussions herein the thermal insulator may be any suitable height. In various embodiments the thermal insulator is the same height as the height of the wear bar of the track assembly e.g. the thermal insulator substantially runs from the top of the work bench assembly to the top surface of the wear bar of the track assembly as shown in . In some embodiments the thermal insulator is approximately half the height of the track assembly and is mounted such that the top surface of the thermal insulator is substantially flush with a top surface of the wear bar but only extends downward approximately half the distance to the top of the work bench . In further embodiments the thermal insulator is a different suitable height e.g. a height to insulate the one or more heating elements only a height of one to five centimeters a height of two centimeters to one meter etc. .

There may be any suitable number of thermal insulators and or conductors. In the embodiments shown there is one thermal insulator and one conductor e.g. thermal insulator and conductor . In some embodiments the track assembly may not include any thermal insulators or conductors e.g. heat is applied to the one or more mold assemblies other than via heating elements under a surface of the track assembly etc. . In various embodiments there are more than two thermal insulators e.g. and in some embodiments more than two zones where heat is applied to the one or more mold assemblies . As a particular example in alternate embodiments the track assembly may include four thermal insulators such that the one or more mold assemblies are held at a different processing temperature between each set of two thermal insulators.

According to particular embodiments the location of the thermal insulator and conductor is a function of processing and displacement time. In these embodiments the thermal insulator and conductor mark a distance that equates to a predetermined amount of time that the one or more mold assemblies are held at a particular processing temperature prior to pressure being applied by the press assembly . As a particular example a predetermined processing time is approximately thirty minutes including time at the press assembly which as shown herein is within zone . Continuing with this particular example each of the one or more mold assemblies is approximately ten centimeters in length. Further it takes approximately four minutes of the press assembly applying pressure to the piece of material to displace the porogen through a surface of the piece of material in this example. Continuing with this example the distance between the thermal insulator and conductor is approximately seventy six linear centimeters e.g. it takes approximately 30 minutes for a particular mold assembly to move from thermal insulator to conductor based on a four minute cycle time .

The thermal insulator may be any suitable material with a low thermal conductivity. In particular embodiments the thermal insulator is one or more types of ceramics fiberglass glass cellulose polystyrene foam Styrofoam urethane foam vermiculite perlite cork wool silicon for a combination of the above. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the material used in the thermal insulator may depend upon the amount of heat to be contained and or applied to the one or more mold assemblies .

The thermal insulator and conductor may be operatively connected to the track assembly in any suitable way. In particular embodiments the thermal insulator and conductor are pressed between two sections of the track assembly such as sections of the wear bar discussed in relation to the tracks guides and or insulation as shown in . In some embodiments the thermal insulator and conductor are operatively connected to the wear bar track guides other insulation or other internal or external components of the track assembly by a suitable fastener or fasteners .

In the embodiment shown in the track assembly includes guides for one or more mold assemblies . As further discussed below in the embodiment shown in the track assembly includes one or more track guides not shown and the wear bar not shown for guiding the bottom or lower portion of the one or more mold assemblies and upper guides formed by the top covers e.g. top covers on one side and the upper track guide on the other side for guiding an upper portion of the one or more mold assemblies . In some embodiments the track assembly is configured to guide the one or more mold assemblies through the process via different guides or without guides altogether. In particular embodiments the track assembly does not include track guides but the one or more mold assemblies travel along a predetermined path of the track assembly along the wear bar or other surface without guides.

In the embodiment shown in the track assembly includes four indexers the indexers A B C and D collectively the indexers . As discussed above the indexers move each of the one or more mold assemblies along the track assembly . As shown in indexers A and C move each of the one or more mold assemblies forward along the track assembly by a distance equal to the length of one mold assembly. Further as shown in indexers B and D move each of the one or more mold assemblies a distance equal to the length of the track between zones and zone and between zones and zone respectively.

As shown the indexers are located at corners of the track assembly . In various embodiments the indexers are located in different additional or fewer locations e.g. there are more or less than four indexers . In alternate embodiments as discussed below the track assembly may include a different mechanism for moving the one or more mold assemblies .

The indexers may be any suitable shape. In the embodiment shown the indexers are generally rectangular in shape with a linkage portion and an index portion where the linkage portion is connected to an actuator e.g. a hydraulic cylinder or the like and the indexing portion is for pushing the one or more mold assemblies along the track assembly . In particular embodiments the linkage and indexing portions are substantially rectangular with a length and width substantially greater than a thickness of the indexer. In some embodiments the indexing portion of the indexers has a width that is greater than the width of the linkage portion of the indexer. In the embodiment shown in the indexers include an indexing portion with a width that is approximately the depth of the track of the track assembly e.g. to push the one or more mold assemblies along the track guides as shown in of the track assembly .

The indexers may include any suitable material or materials. In particular embodiments the indexers include stainless steel. In some embodiments the indexers include aluminum a composite material plastic or other suitable materials. In further embodiments the indexers include reinforced steel or other metal. In still further embodiments the indexers include any material suitable for resisting the high heat produced by the system.

Continuing with the track assembly includes one or more side panels . In various embodiments the one or more side panels include sheet metal and are operatively connected to the work bench and other portions of the track assembly . In particular embodiments the one or more side panels are made of another suitable material and or are connected to another portion of the track assembly and or work bench .

In the embodiment shown the track assembly includes the top covers and . In some embodiments the top covers insulate the interior components of the track assembly . In at least one embodiment the top covers connect various components of the track assembly to the work bench e.g. some components of the track assembly may be operatively connected to the top covers which are connected to the work bench through side panel . In embodiments the top covers include an overhang or are otherwise over the one or more track guides to provide an upper guide to the one or more mold assemblies e.g. the top covers provide an upper guide to a portion of the one or more mold assemblies while the one or more track guides provide a lower guide to the one or more mold assemblies as shown and discussed in regards to . The top covers may include any suitable material including sheet metal stainless steel etc.

As shown in the track assembly includes a track or wear bar which the one or more mold assemblies pass over. In particular embodiments as will be shown in the one or more mold assemblies slide along the track guides and over the wear bar . In some embodiments the track assembly may be configured such that the one or more mold assemblies slide directly on the wear bar e.g. without the track guides . In at least one embodiment the track assembly is configured such that the one or more mold assemblies pass over the wear bar along the track guides along a front and back portion of the track assembly e.g. through zones and but slide directly along the wear bar or bridge portions of the track assembly e.g. between zones and and between zones and .

In various embodiments the wear bar spans the length of travel of the one or more mold assemblies . In some embodiments the wear bar spans less than the length of travel of the one or more mold assemblies e.g. the wear bar spans a portion of the length of travel of the one or more mold assemblies along a front or back of the track assembly and the one or more mold assemblies travel along the track guides . The wear bar and the track guides will be further discussed in relation to .

Continuing with the track assembly includes the upper track guide . In the embodiment shown the upper track guide is for covering the internal components of the track assembly and for guiding the one or more mold assemblies down the one or more track guides . In the embodiment shown the upper track guide is fastened to a portion of the track assembly such that it extends over the one or more track guides such that a portion of the one or more mold assemblies passes under the upper track guide and over the one or more track guides .

The upper track guide may include any suitable material. In one embodiment the upper track guide is substantially sheet metal steel . In other embodiments the upper track guide includes other suitable materials such as other metals ceramics etc.

The track assembly may include any suitable fasteners. As shown in the track assembly includes fasteners for connecting the track assembly to the work bench . As will be understood from discussions herein the track assembly may include any suitable fasteners at any suitable location including the fasteners shown in . In some embodiments the track assembly may include more or less fasteners than those shown in .

Turning now to this cross sectional view of the track assembly includes a cross sectional view of one of the one or more mold assemblies on the track guides A and B which are in the embodiment shown operatively connected to the interior of the track assembly . As shown in just under the one or more mold assemblies is a wear bar . The wear bar in the embodiment shown is directly above a heating assembly which includes an upper heat clamp heater cartridges A and B a lower heat clamp at least one thermocouple and one or more fasteners . Below the heating assembly in the embodiment shown is an air pocket formed by a portion of the frame of the track assembly and the heating assembly. As shown in the portion of the frame is surrounded by a layer of insulation .

In the embodiment shown the track assembly includes track guides A and B. In this embodiment and others the track guides A and B support the one or more mold assemblies as they are indexed around the track assembly e.g. as they are processed . In particular embodiments the track guides A and B support the one or more mold assemblies as they are indexed through zone zone zone and zone .

As will be understood from discussions herein the track guides A and B may include any suitable material. As further discussed herein one or more heating elements e.g. heater cartridges A and B may heat the one or more mold assemblies to temperature of over 300 degrees Celsius in some embodiments. In these embodiments the track guides A and B include a material suitable for sustaining such a temperature for a long period of time e.g. a material that will not melt or begin to melt at this or other processing temperatures such as stainless steel aluminum brass copper iron gold silver etc. In particular embodiments the track guides A and B include a material or more than one material that withstands wear from the one or more mold assemblies traveling along or being pushed along the track guides A and B such as stainless steel.

According to particular embodiments the track guides A and B are substantially L or elbow shaped from a cross sectional perspective and run along the length of the track assembly e.g. through zone zone zone and zone such that the track guides A and B provide lower and side support for the one or more mold assemblies . In these embodiments and others the track guides A and B support and guide the one or more mold assemblies along the track assembly for processing.

In at least one embodiment the track guides A and B are operatively connected to the frame of the track assembly through any suitable fastening mechanisms e.g. bolts screws nails or adhesives that can withstand temperatures over 300 degrees Celsius . In particular embodiments the track guides A and B are operatively connected to the heat clamp or insulation . In some embodiments the track guides A and B are operatively connected to any other suitable part of the track assembly work bench or other suitable component of the system.

Continuing with in the embodiment shown the track assembly includes a wear bar for supporting the one or more mold assemblies and for facilitating transfer of heat to the one or more mold assemblies from the heater cartridges A and B as further discussed below . In particular embodiments the wear bar is operatively connected to the frame of the track assembly . In some embodiments the wear bar is connected to the upper heat clamp or another part of the heater assembly of the track assembly . In particular embodiments the wear bar is located on top of the upper heat clamp and between the track guides A and B. In these embodiments the wear bar may be press fit between the track guides and or the upper heat clamp e.g. the wear bar is connected to the track assembly by contact but not using any fasteners .

The wear bar may include any suitable materials. According to particular embodiments the wear bar includes aluminum to assist with transferring heat from the heater cartridges A and B e.g. aluminum has high thermal conductivity and may direct and transfer heat from the heater cartridges A and B to the one or more mold assemblies through direct contact with the upper heat clamp and the one or more mold assemblies . In some embodiments the wear bar may include other materials such as steel steel with carbon or other additives gold copper brass or any other suitable material for transferring heat from the heater cartridges to the one or more mold assemblies e.g. an suitable material or materials with a high thermal diffusivity which is a function of thermal conductivity density and specific heat .

The wear bar in the embodiment shown in has a cross section shape that is generally rectangular and is longer than it is wide or tall. In this particular embodiment the wear bar substantially runs the length of the front and back of the track assembly e.g. through zone zone zone and zone . In some embodiments the wear bar has a shape other than as shown in such as for example a cross sectional square shape a cross sectional substantially triangular shape where the one or more mold assemblies contact the wear bar at the apex of the substantially triangular shaped wear bar a cross sectional arcuate shape etc.

As shown in the wear bar is in contact with the upper heat clamp . In the embodiment shown the upper heat clamp and the lower heat clamp hold the heater cartridges A and B in place under the one or more mold assemblies . Further in this embodiment the upper heat clamp and the lower heat clamp have a heat assembly fastener that attaches to each of the upper heat clamp and the lower heat clamp and passes between the heater cartridges A and B. In this way in this embodiment the heat assembly fastener is tightened such that the upper heat clamp and the lower heat clamp clamp the heater cartridges A and B between them.

The upper heat clamp and the lower heat clamp may include any suitable materials such as stainless steel aluminum copper brass etc. In various embodiments the upper heat clamp includes a different material than the lower heat clamp to facilitate upwards transfer of heat from the heater cartridges A and B to the one or more mold assemblies e.g. via the wear bar .

In particular embodiments the upper heat clamp and the lower heat clamp are operatively connected to the frame of the track assembly via one or more fasteners e.g. bolts screws nuts etc. . In at least one embodiment the upper heat clamp sits on top of a portion of the frame or insulation with or without any fasteners and is attached to the lower heat clamp via the heat assembly fastener thereby supporting the heater cartridges A and B and lower heat clamp via the frame .

The heater cartridges A and B may be any suitable heating elements for heating the one or more mold assemblies . According to a particular embodiment the heater cartridges A and B are resistance heating elements e.g. electricity is passed through the heater cartridges A and B to create heat and may include metal ceramic polymer and or composite e.g. metal and ceramic materials. In some embodiments the heater cartridges A and B are another form of heating element such as for example furnace or boiler heated elements.

The track assembly may include any number of heating elements such as heater cartridges A and B. In the embodiment shown in the figures the track assembly includes the heater cartridges A and B as shown in in zones and as well as similar heating elements in zones and . As will be understood from discussion herein the track assembly may include more than four heating elements and may include various types of heating elements e.g. the four or more heating elements may each be a different type of heating element . As will be further discussed below the track assembly may include less than four heating elements or a single heating element in particular embodiments.

As shown in the track assembly further includes an air pocket below the lower heat clamp and above the frame . In various embodiments the air pocket insulates the heater cartridges A and B air has a low thermal conductivity such that heat flows upward toward the one or more mold assemblies . As will be understood from discussions herein in various embodiments the track assembly may include insulation a vacuum or other materials in place of the air pocket .

Continuing with the track assembly includes the frame . As will be understood from discussions herein the frame in particular embodiments connects the various elements of the track assembly e.g. each of the various elements of the track assembly connect directly or indirectly to the frame . In some embodiments the frame includes one or more metals such as stainless steel iron aluminum etc.

As shown in the embodiment depicted in the track assembly includes insulation which in the embodiment shown at least partially surrounds the heating elements of the track assembly . As will be understood from discussions herein the track assembly may include any suitable amount of insulation and the insulation may surround three sides of a cross section of zone for example of the track assembly . In some embodiments the insulation includes fiberglass wool foam rock wool a film carbon etc.

As shown in the track assembly may include any suitable fasteners through the assembly and to attach the track assembly to the work bench . In various embodiments the one or more fasteners include brackets and bolts and nuts. In some embodiments the one or more fasteners include screws or nails or an adhesive. In further embodiments the one or more fasteners include bonding of materials such as welding etc.

According to particular embodiments the track assembly includes one or more sensors. As shown in for example the track assembly includes the at least one thermocouple for measuring the heat of the heater cartridge A and B. In various embodiments the track assembly may include any suitable number of thermocouples to measure the heat of the heating elements of the track assembly e.g. one thermocouple per heating element thermocouples distributed or spaced along a length of the track assembly one or more thermocouples located above the track assembly etc. . In further embodiments the track assembly includes various other sensors such as pressure sensors motion sensors light sensors weight sensors etc.

Turning to the mold is shown. In the embodiment shown the mold includes pegs and and an opening including curves and . In the embodiment shown the mold insert or a different mold insert is placed in the opening where the mold insert includes outer curves that match curves and . Further in the embodiment shown the mold includes pegs and for receiving a static weight e.g. static weight .

The mold may be any suitable size. In particular embodiments the mold is substantially square and is approximately fifteen centimeters in width and length and approximately two centimeters in height e.g. thickness . In various embodiments the mold is substantially rectangular with a width of approximately fifteen centimeters and a length of approximately thirty centimeters and approximately five centimeters in height e.g. thickness . As will be understood from discussions herein the size and shape of the mold may vary e.g. scale based on the size of the piece of material to be processed.

The mold may include any suitable materials. In a particular embodiment the mold includes stainless steel. In some embodiments the mold includes aluminum iron copper brass or another suitable material. In particular embodiments the mold and the pegs and are made of different materials.

In particular embodiments the mold includes pegs and which are integrally formed with the base of the mold . In some embodiments the mold includes pegs and which are attached to the base of the mold via a suitable fastener or adhesive.

The pegs and may be any suitable length e.g. from the base of the mold and diameter. According to particular embodiments the pegs and are a length suitable for holding a static weight placed on top of a piece of material loaded into the mold insert e.g. the pegs and are longer than the height of the piece of material above the mold insert plus a portion of the height of the static weight . In some embodiments the pegs and are one to fifteen centimeters in length. In further embodiments the pegs and are less than one centimeter in length. In still further embodiments the pegs and are greater than fifteen centimeters in length e.g. fifty centimeters one meter two meters etc. . Further the pegs and have a diameter of approximately two centimeters in a particular embodiment. In various embodiments the pegs and have a diameter of less than two centimeters more than two centimeters greater than ten centimeters etc. In further embodiments the pegs and have diameters proportional to their length e.g. the longer the peg the greater the diameter and or different diameters.

As shown in the embodiment in the pegs and are substantially cylindrical. In various embodiments not shown the pegs and may be any other suitable shape such as substantially rectangular substantially square from a cross sectional view substantially conical etc.

As will be understood from discussions herein the mold travels down the track assembly and thus may be any suitable size depending upon the size of the track assembly and or the amount of material to be processed. As shown in the one or more mold assembles are substantially the width of the track of the track assembly . In various embodiments the mold may be scalable to the size of the track assembly and or may be any suitable shape e.g. the mold may be longer shorter or varying widths may be substantially rectangular etc. .

Returning to the mold insert includes the curves and . In various embodiments the curves and substantially match the curves and of the mold such that the mold insert fits within the mold for processing. In some embodiments the mold insert may not include the curves or and may instead include some other mechanism for insertion within mold e.g. the mold insert may fit within a void of the mold that is not a through hole not shown the mold insert may include holes to fit on pegs operatively connected to the mold etc. .

In the embodiment shown the mold insert includes the void which may be any suitable size or shape for receiving a piece of material. In general the void is the size and shape of the piece of material to be processed. In the embodiment shown in the void is a cut out of the base of the mold insert but does not go through the mold base . In various embodiments the void has a depth of half the height of the mold insert e.g. half the distance from a face of the mold insert to an opposing face of the mold insert . In particular embodiments the void has a depth of more or less than half the height of the mold insert . In some embodiments the void has a depth of approximately one centimeter e.g. where the height of the mold insert is two centimeters .

According to particular embodiments the mold insert includes the prong which is a portion of the base of the mold insert that has not been removed when creating the void . In various embodiments the prong is the same size and shape of a hole in a piece of material to be processed by the system as described herein. In particular embodiments as discussed herein the piece of material may be a different shape than that shown in and thus the prong may not exist e.g. this portion of the base of the mold insert has been removed and or there may be multiple prongs or prongs in different locations.

In the embodiment shown the mold insert includes the two holes and . The two holes and are generally for placement and removal of the mold insert within the mold e.g. when the mold insert is loaded or unloaded from the mold via one or more tools that utilize the holes and . As will be understood from discussions herein the holes and may be any suitable size and shape for use with loading and or unloading the mold insert into or from the mold .

The mold insert may include other features not shown in . In a particular embodiment the mold insert may be stamped with or otherwise include a serial number identifying the piece of material that is processed e.g. a serial number for identifying a resulting medical device for quality control purposes . In some embodiments the mold insert includes multiple voids prongs pegs holes etc.

As discussed herein once porogen and piece of material are loaded into the mold insert and the mold insert is loaded into the mold the static weight is placed onto the piece of material to press a surface of the piece of material onto the porogen. Turning to an exemplary static weight is shown. In this embodiment the static weight includes two holes and for receiving the pegs and of the mold . As discussed herein the static weight applies a pressure to the piece of material such as for example approximately 0.1 PSI to 10 PSI.

As further discussed below as shown in zone a piece of material loaded into the one or more mold assemblies is subjected to pressure in addition to the pressure applied by the static weight described above . In these embodiments the additional pressure is provided by the press assembly which will be discussed in regards to below.

The exemplary processing machine includes the press assembly as shown in . Features of the exemplary press assembly are shown in . As shown in the press assembly is operatively connected mounted to the work bench and or to the track assembly and is for applying pressure to a piece of material loaded into the one or more mold assemblies for displacing a layer of porogen through a surface of the piece of material. As discussed herein the press assembly is operative for applying pressure to the piece of material of approximately 50 and 250 PSI.

Turning to an exemplary press assembly is shown. The exemplary press assembly includes an actuator operatively connected to an actuator adaptor a press mounting frame e.g. for supporting the rest of the press assembly actuator guides A and B which are operatively connected to linear bearings A and B. The exemplary press assembly in the embodiment shown further includes a load cell an alignment coupling an adapter plate a ram platen a cam assembly a linear bearing a heat shield a ram insulator and a ram head . As will be understood from discussions herein as shown in the actuator moves the ram downward via the ramp platen and the actuator guides A and B extend downward with the ram platen .

The actuator in the embodiment shown is a ball screw electric actuator. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill the in the art the ball screw actuator is a mechanical device that translates the rotational motion of ball bearings rotational motion cause by electricity to linear motion of a screw e.g. an electrical motor causes the ram to move in a vertical direction substantially perpendicular to a top surface of the track assembly . As will further be understood the actuator may be any suitable type of actuator for applying force to a piece of material being processed. For example the actuator may be a hydraulic pneumatic or another type of actuator.

The actuator is attached to the press mounting frame via the actuator adaptor . In various embodiments the actuator adaptor operatively connects to the press mounting frame via one or more suitable fasteners. In some embodiments the actuator adaptor connects to the actuator by one or more fasteners or is press fit such that the actuator is pressed into the actuator adaptor and is held in place by friction.

As shown in the press assembly includes actuator guides A and B which are operatively connected to the press mounting frame via the linear bearings A and B. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the actuator guides A and B and linear bearings A and B assist the ram head in accurately applying pressure to a piece of material in a normal direction e.g. such that the ram head does not contact the static weight or piece of material at an angle other than substantially 90 degrees from the top of the static weight and or piece of material .

Operatively connected to the press mounting frame is the load cell . In various embodiments the load cell is a sensor for measuring the amount of force that is being applied by the actuator. As discussed above in particular embodiments the press lowers the ram a particular distance which presses a surface of the piece of material onto the porogen loaded into the one or more mold assemblies . Once the load cell returns a reading of zero force being applied by the actuator the system retracts the ram to a starting position e.g. the reading of zero force or substantially zero force indicates that the porogen has been displaced within the surface of the material .

In various embodiments the press assembly includes a cam assembly for preloading the actuator e.g. for preventing backlash . In a particular embodiment the cam assembly includes a flange collar fastened to the ram platen with one or more shoulder screws extending through the flange collar and the ram platen to a cam. In this embodiment when the one or more shoulder screws are turned the cam pushes upward on the screw of the actuator or on a rod or dowel that transfers this force upward on the screw of the actuator to preload the actuator e.g. to prevent actuator motion without any pressure such as when the balls of the actuator move without moving the screw .

The portion of the press assembly below the ram platen includes various components to transfer the pressure applied by the actuator to the one or more mold assemblies e.g. via the static weight and to protect the components of the press assembly from the heat of the heating elements of the track assembly in zone . In particular in the embodiment shown the press assembly includes the linear bearing for allowing the ram to move downward the heat shield and ram insulator for protecting the ram from the heat of the heating elements and the ram head for contacting the static weight .

As will be understood from discussions herein the processing machine may include one or more sensors and or computing systems. In various embodiments the processing machine includes one or more thermocouples for measuring a temperature of the one or more heating elements e.g. the heater cartridges A and B and or mold assemblies e.g. mold assemblies of the track assembly and a load cell for measuring the pressure applied by the actuator . These sensors and others in various embodiments may be connected to a central processing system for reading the information provided by these sensors and in some embodiments providing adjustments to the system e.g. adjusting heat pressure etc. . In at least one embodiment the system is configured to receive sensor readings from the thermocouples and at least one load cell and automatically or substantially automatically adjust a temperature of the heat cartridges A and B and or the pressure applied by the actuator to the one or more mold assemblies .

In various embodiments the processing machine may be configured to automatically or substantially automatically advance or index the mold assemblies based on one or more readings from the sensors of the system. As discussed above the system may be configured to sense via a load cell when pressure is no longer applied to a particular mold assembly when a ram of the press assembly is at a specific depth e.g. when a layer of porogen is displaced within a surface of a piece of material the load cell will register that no pressure is being applied by the ram at a specific depth . Upon receiving an indication that no pressure is being applied from the load cell the system may be configured to index the mold assemblies e.g. to index a next mold assembly to a location under the press assembly for pressure to be applied the next mold assembly .

In further embodiments the processing system may include additional sensors and or processing capabilities. In at least one embodiment the system includes an automatic porogen dispenser for dispensing a layer of porogen into the one or more mold assemblies prior to a piece of material being loaded into the one or more mold assemblies e.g. prior to the piece of material being placed in contact with the layer of porogen . In some embodiments the processing system includes at least one robot or computing and mechanical device for placing or removing pieces of material and or mold inserts from the track assembly e.g. the system includes a robot or robots for adding and removing the pieces of material for processing and or the inserts .

From the foregoing it will be understood that various aspects of the processes described herein are software processes that execute on computer systems that form parts of the system. Accordingly it will be understood that various embodiments of the system described herein are generally implemented as specially configured computers including various computer hardware components and in many cases significant additional features as compared to conventional or known computers processes or the like as discussed in greater detail herein. Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a computer or downloadable through communication networks. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise various forms of data storage devices or media such as RAM ROM flash memory EEPROM CD ROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage solid state drives SSDs or other data storage devices any type of removable non volatile memories such as secure digital SD flash memory memory stick etc. or any other medium which can be used to carry or store computer program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose computer special purpose computer specially configured computer mobile device etc.

When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such a connection is properly termed and considered a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device such as a mobile device processor to perform one specific function or a group of functions.

Those skilled in the art will understand the features and aspects of a suitable computing environment in which aspects of the disclosure may be implemented. Although not required some of the embodiments of the claimed systems may be described in the context of computer executable instructions such as program modules or engines as described earlier being executed by computers in networked environments. Such program modules are often reflected and illustrated by flow charts sequence diagrams exemplary screen displays and other techniques used by those skilled in the art to communicate how to make and use such computer program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs functions objects components data structures application programming interface API calls to other computers whether local or remote etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular defined data types within the computer. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and or schemas and program modules represent examples of the program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the claimed and or described systems and methods may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers smartphones tablets hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the claimed system are practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing various aspects of the described operations which is not illustrated includes a computing device including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The computer will typically include one or more data storage devices for reading data from and writing data to. The data storage devices provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

Computer program code that implements the functionality described herein typically comprises one or more program modules that may be stored on a data storage device. This program code as is known to those skilled in the art usually includes an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through keyboard touch screen pointing device a script containing computer program code written in a scripting language or other input devices not shown such as a microphone etc. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through known electrical optical or wireless connections.

The computer that effects many aspects of the described processes will typically operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers or data sources which are described further below. Remote computers may be another personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically include many or all of the elements described above relative to the main computer system in which the systems are embodied. The logical connections between computers include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN virtual networks WAN or LAN and wireless LANs WLAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN or WLAN networking environment a computer system implementing aspects of the system is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN or WLAN networking environment the computer may include a modem a wireless link or other mechanisms for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote data storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections described or shown are exemplary and other mechanisms of establishing communications over wide area networks or the Internet may be used.

While various aspects have been described in the context of a preferred embodiment additional aspects features and methodologies of the claimed systems will be readily discernible from the description herein by those of ordinary skill in the art. Many embodiments and adaptations of the disclosure and claimed systems other than those herein described as well as many variations modifications and equivalent arrangements and methodologies will be apparent from or reasonably suggested by the disclosure and the foregoing description thereof without departing from the substance or scope of the claims. Furthermore any sequence s and or temporal order of steps of various processes described and claimed herein are those considered to be the best mode contemplated for carrying out the claimed systems. It should also be understood that although steps of various processes may be shown and described as being in a preferred sequence or temporal order the steps of any such processes are not limited to being carried out in any particular sequence or order absent a specific indication of such to achieve a particular intended result. In most cases the steps of such processes may be carried out in a variety of different sequences and orders while still falling within the scope of the claimed systems. In addition some steps may be carried out simultaneously contemporaneously or in synchronization with other steps.

Alternative embodiments of the system may comprise features that are in some respects similar to the various components described above. Selected distinguishing features of these alternative embodiments are discussed below.

As discussed above the track assembly may be divided into one or more heat zones where heat is applied to a mold assembly or multiple mold assemblies . In various embodiments the system may include many heat zones or a heat zone for each mold assembly e.g. such that heat to each mold is more precisely controlled . In these embodiments the system may include many heating elements and or heating elements that are approximately the size of a single mold assembly. Further the system may include dynamic heating such that there are no zones but temperature can be precisely controlled at any location on the track assembly.

In some embodiments a mold assembly may include one or more heating elements e.g. opposed to or in addition to the track assembly including heating elements . In these embodiments each mold assembly may include an electric resistance heating element or another type of heating element that heats a piece of material to a specific temperature. In various embodiments the heating element of a mold assembly may be controlled by the system via the track assembly control systems. In these embodiments the mold assembly may be configured such that the track assembly control systems control the heat of the mold assembly when the mold assembly is in contact with the track assembly e.g. through electrical contacts on the mold assembly or the like . In some embodiments the mold assemblies may include heating controls and sensors and or may wirelessly connect to a remote control system.

According to particular embodiments the system includes an alternate form of heating such as convection heating. In these embodiments the system may include ovens boilers furnaces heat lamps etc. which subject the mold assemblies to heat as they pass through a heating area e.g. zone . As a particular example the system may include one or more oven structures where the mold assemblies travel through the one or more oven structures and are heated by the air within these structures. In these embodiments and others the mold assemblies may be configured such that multiple surfaces of materials are processed to include pores e.g. each mold assembly is loaded with at least one piece of material for processing and multiple surfaces are processed at substantially the same time because heat may be applied to multiple or all surfaces of the at least one piece of material through convention heating .

For example the system may include a particular oven heating structure where the internal air of the structure is heated through any suitable mechanism electrical heating boiler furnace etc. . Further in this example at least a portion of a track assembly passes through the oven heating structure transporting mold assemblies through the oven heating structure and heating the pieces of material included in the mold assemblies as they are passed through the oven heating structure. In this way in this example multiple surfaces of the pieces of material that are included in the mold assemblies are heated.

As will be understood from discussions herein the track assembly is merely exemplary and other suitable track assemblies may be constructed. In various embodiments an alternate track assembly may include a conveyor belt opposed to indexers e.g. indexers . In some embodiments a second alternate track assembly includes the mold assemblies as integral parts of the track e.g. mold assemblies are not removable . In further embodiments alternate track assemblies utilize magnets solenoids pulleys rollers chain conveyors wire mesh conveyors vibrating conveyors pneumatic conveyors screw conveyors drag conveyors and or gravity to move mold assemblies.

A track assembly may be configured to move mold assemblies along any suitable path of travel. In some embodiments the track assembly may move mold assemblies in a linear direction and pieces of material may be processed along this linear path. In various embodiments a track assembly may be configured to move mold assemblies along a path of travel that is substantially circular substantially rectangular substantially square or any other suitable path of travel e.g. a spiral an undefined shape a combination of shapes etc. .

As discussed above the static weight is a weight that applies a constant pressure to a piece of material loaded into a mold assembly e.g. to press a surface of the piece of material onto a layer of porogen while heat is applied to the surface of the piece of material . Further as discussed above the static weight applies approximately 0.1 to 10 PSI to a piece of material. In alternate embodiments the static weight applies more pressure a piece of material such as for example about 200 PSI. In these alternate embodiments the system may configured such that the press assembly is a quality control device to make sure that the porogen has displaced through the surface of the piece of material e.g. the press assembly does apply additional pressure the piece of material because the static weight has applied sufficient pressure to the piece of material to displace the porogen through the surface .

In further embodiments the system does not include a static weight. In these embodiments and others the system may be configured to apply more pressure to the piece of material via a press assembly e.g. the press assembly and or to apply pressure to the piece of material via multiple press assemblies which may be arranged in any suitable way around a track assembly .

The number of mold assemblies may vary. In particular embodiments the track assembly is configured to support approximately twelve mold assemblies along a particular length of the track. In some embodiments the track assembly is configured to support more mold assemblies such as twenty thirty or fifty mold assemblies etc. In further embodiments the track assembly is configured to support less mold assemblies such as one two or ten mold assemblies along a particular portion of the track.

The mold assemblies may have an alternate structure. In some embodiments the mold assembles may not include a removable insert e.g. the outer mold and the insert are an integral piece . In various embodiments the mold assemblies do not include pegs as shown in the figures but include another mechanism for receiving a static weight such as a magnet or magnets holes e.g. where the static weight includes pegs a single peg opposed to two pegs more than two pegs slots notches etc.

According to particular embodiments a method for processing a material includes 1 providing a press assembly including a ram and a load cell for measuring displacement of a layer of porogen through a surface of a piece of material 2 providing the piece of material wherein the piece of material has been heated to a particular processing temperature for a predetermined amount of time within a mold assembly 3 applying pressure via the press assembly ram to the piece of material via the mold assembly until the load cell measures that there is no pressure being applied to the piece of material and therefore the layer of porogen has displaced through the surface of the piece of material and 4 removing the piece of material from the mold assembly.

In particular aspects a mold assembly for processing a piece of material includes 1 a substantially rectangular mold base with a void for receiving a mold insert and one or more pegs for receiving a static weight 2 the mold insert for being loaded into the mold base void where the mold insert includes a non through void for receiving a layer of ionic solid porogen and a piece of thermoplastic for processing 3 the static weight for being loaded onto the piece of thermoplastic for applying constant pressure to the thermoplastic wherein the mold assembly is configured for being subjected to heat for processing the piece of thermoplastic.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments has been presented only for the purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the systems and their practical application so as to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the systems and various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which the present systems pertain without departing from their spirit and scope.

