---

title: Automatic discovery of popular landmarks
abstract: In one embodiment the present invention is a method for populating and updating a database of images of landmarks including geo-clustering geo-tagged images according to geographic proximity to generate one or more geo-clusters, and visual-clustering the one or more geo-clusters according to image similarity to generate one or more visual clusters. In another embodiment, the present invention is a system for identifying landmarks from digital images, including the following components: a database of geo-tagged images; a landmark database; a geo-clustering module; and a visual clustering module. In other embodiments the present invention may be a method of enhancing user queries to retrieve images of landmarks, or a method of automatically tagging a new digital image with text labels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483500&OS=09483500&RS=09483500
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09483500
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150406
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 619 652 filed Sep. 14 2012 which is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 119 359 filed May 12 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 676 001 issued Mar. 18 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates in general to digital image collections and more particularly to identifying popular landmarks in large digital image collections.

With the increased use of digital images increased capacity and availability of digital storage media and the interconnectivity offered by digital transmission media such as the Internet ever larger corpora of digital images are accessible to an increasing number of people. Persons having a range of interests from various locations spread throughout the world take photographs of various subjects and can make those photographs available for instance on the Internet. For example digital photographs of various landmarks and tourist sites from across the world may be taken by persons with different levels of skill in taking photographs and posted on the web. The photographs may show the same landmark from different perspectives and taken from the same or different distances.

To leverage the information contained in these large corpora of digital images it is necessary that the corpora be organized. For example at digital image web sites such as Google Photos or Picasa starting at a high level menu one may drill down to a detailed listing of subjects for which photographs are available. Alternatively one may be able to search one or more sites that have digital photographs. Some tourist information websites for example have downloaded images of landmarks associated with published lists of popular tourist sites.

However there is no known system that can automatically extract information such as the most popular tourist destinations from these large collections. As numerous new photographs are added to these digital image collections it may not be feasible for users to manually label the photographs in a complete and consistent manner that will increase the usefulness of those digital image collections. What is needed therefore are systems and methods that can automatically identify and label popular landmarks in large digital image collections.

In one embodiment the present invention is a method for populating and updating a database of images of landmarks including geo clustering gee tagged images according to geographic proximity to generate one or more geo clusters and visual clustering the one or more gee clusters according to image similarity to generate one or more visual clusters.

In another embodiment the present invention is a system for identifying landmarks from digital images including the following components a database of geo tagged images a landmark database a geo clustering module in communication with said database of geo tagged images wherein the geo tagged images are grouped into one or more geo clusters and a visual clustering module in communication with said geo clustering module wherein the one or more gee clusters are grouped into one or more visual clusters and wherein visual cluster data is stored in the landmark database.

In a further embodiment the present invention is a method of enhancing user queries to retrieve images of landmarks including the stages of receiving a user query identifying one or more trigger words in the user query selecting one or more corresponding tags from a landmark database corresponding to the one or more trigger words and supplementing the user query with the one or more corresponding tags generating a supplemented user query.

In yet another embodiment the present invention is a method of automatically tagging a new digital image including the stages of comparing the new digital image to images in a landmark image database wherein the landmark image database comprises visual clusters of images of one or more landmarks and tagging the new digital image with at least one tag based on at least one of said visual clusters.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. Those skilled in the art with access to the teachings herein will recognize additional modifications applications and embodiments within the scope thereof and additional fields in which the invention would be of significant utility.

The present invention includes methods and systems for automatically identifying and classifying objects in digital images. For example embodiments of the present invention may identify classify and prioritize most popular tourist landmarks based on digital image collections that are accessible on the Internet. The method and systems of the present invention can enable the efficient maintenance of an up to date list and collections of images for the most popular tourist locations where the popularity of a tourist location can be approximated by the number of images of that location posted on the Internet by users.

A popular landmark recognition system according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown in . Processing module includes a geo clustering module and a visual clustering module . The visual clustering module may also include a popularity module . The processing functionality of modules is described below the geo clustering module is described with respect to and the visual clustering module is described with respect to . The processing functionality of modules may be achieved in software hardware or a combination thereof. For example modules may be implemented entirely as software modules or some of the functionality of the geo clustering module may be implemented using hardware such as a field programmable gate array FPGA . It will be understood by a person of skill in the art that processing module may include additional components and modules that facilitate the functions of the present invention. For example processing module may include one or more processors a memory a storage device modules for interfacing to external devices including the graphical user interface the geo tagged image corpus and the landmark database system .

The landmark database system may include a landmark database and associated indexes . The landmark database system may be co located on the same processing platform as module or may be separately located. The landmark database may include a collection of landmarks recognized by the system . The information stored for each landmark in landmark database may include images or a list of images of the landmark image and feature templates and metadata from the images including geo coordinates time and user information. The landmark database may also contain the visual clustering and geo clustering data required for the processing in processing module . The indexes may include indexing that arranges the landmarks in landmark database in order of one or more of for example and without limitation popularity geographic region time or other user defined criteria as subject of interest. The link may be any one or a combination of interconnection mechanisms including for example and without limitation Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus IEEE 1394 Firewire interface Ethernet interface or an IEEE 802.11 interface.

A user interface allows a user or other external entity to interact with the processing system the landmark database system and the geo tagged image corpus . The user interface may be connected to other entities of the system using any one or a combination of interconnection mechanisms including for example and without limitation PCI bus IEEE 1394 Firewire interface Ethernet interface or an IEEE 802.11 interface. One or more of a graphical user interface a web interface and application programming interface may be included in user interface .

The geo tagged image corpus may include one or more digital geo tagged image corpora distributed across one or more networks. A person skilled in the art will understand that the corpus may also be implemented as a collection of links to accessible geo tagged image collections that are distributed throughout a network. The corpus may also be implemented by making copies for example downloading and storing in local storage of all or some images available in distributed locations. In some embodiments a part of the geo tagged image corpus may exist on the same processing platform as the processing system and or landmark database system . The different collections of geo tagged images that constitute the geo tagged image corpus may be interconnected through the Internet an intra network or other form of inter network. The processing system takes as input images made available from the geo tagged image corpus. In some embodiments the images from the distributed image collections may be converted to a standard graphic format such as GIF either upon being stored in corpus or before being input to processing module . Embodiments may also require that other forms of standardization such as reduction or enhancement of resolution or processing is performed on images prior to either upon being stored in corpus or before being input to processing module . The corpus may be connected to other components of the system by links and using any one or a combination of interconnection mechanisms including for example and without limitation PCI bus IEEE 1394 Firewire interface Ethernet interface or an IEEE 802.11 interface.

In some embodiments visual cluster information including the associated images and or references to associated images may be stored in a database such as landmark database . The images and or the virtual images stored in landmark database may be accessible using one or more indexes that allow access to stored visual clusters based on configurable criteria including popularity. For example the stored visual clusters may be processed by a popularity module that updates an index to allow access in order of the number of unique users that have submitted images to each cluster.

In some embodiments selected visual clusters may be subjected to review by a user and or may be further processed by a computer program. For example optionally visual clusters satisfying specified criteria such as having less than a predetermined number of images may be subjected to review by a user. A user may modify one or more visual clusters by actions including deleting an image adding an image or re assigning an image to another cluster. A user may also specify new tag information or modify existing tag information. A person skilled in the art will understand that processing the visual clusters according to external data received from a user or a computer program may require the system to perform additional functions to maintain the consistency of the geo cluster and visual cluster information stored in the database system .

In the geo cluster validation stage each one of the geo clusters generated in the create geo clustering stage may be validated based on selected criteria. For example in one embodiment of the present invention the goal may be to ensure that each geo cluster selected for further processing reasonably includes a tourist landmark i.e. a popular landmark. Accordingly a validation criteria may be to further process only geo clusters having images from more unique users than a predetermined threshold. A validation criteria such as having at least a predetermined number of unique users having submitted images of the same landmark is likely to filter out images of other buildings structures and monuments parks mountains landscapes etc. that have little popular appeal. For example an enthusiastic homeowner posting pictures of his newly built house of no popular appeal is unlikely to post a number of images of his house that is substantial when compared to the number of images of any popular landmark posted by all users of Internet digital image collection sites. In one embodiment the threshold may be set per season and or per geographic area. In other embodiments the threshold may be derived by first analyzing the geo clusters for the distribution of unique users. In yet other embodiments the threshold may be set for each type of landmark. The foregoing descriptions of means for setting the threshold is only for illustration. A person skilled in the art will understand that there are many other means through which the geo clusters can be validated according to the focus of each use.

In stage based on the index and the matches generated in stages a match region graph is generated. In the match region graph a node is an image and the links between nodes indicate relationships between images. For example a pair of images that match according to stage would have a link between them. The match region graph is used in stage to generate the visual clusters. Briefly a visual cluster is a connected sub tree in the match region graph after the weak links are pruned based on additional processing in stage . Weak links may be where images are matched based on image or feature templates the links with less than a threshold number of matching features. Some embodiments may consider links that do not match a specified set of features as weak links. Text label agreement where available between images in a cluster may be another criteria. Also the number of images in a cluster may be considered when pruning weak links so as to minimize clusters with very few images. A person skilled in the art will understand that pruning weak links may be based on a variety of criteria in addition to those described here. Lastly the visual cluster data is saved in stage . The visual clusters may be saved to the landmark database . Along with the images and the object information of each visual cluster other pertinent data including but not limited to one or more text labels descriptive of the cluster and one or more images particularly representative of the cluster may be saved. A text label descriptive of the visual cluster may be generated for example by merging text labels of each constituent image of that cluster. One or more images particularly representative of a visual cluster may be useful to display in an index for example of popular tourist landmarks.

In another embodiment of the present invention user verification of the generated visual clusters is implemented. illustrates a graphical user interface that may display the images in each visual cluster to a user and provide the user the ability to manually edit various aspects of each cluster. For example graphical user interface may retrieve visual clusters stored in the landmark database and write back the edited visual clusters to the same database . The graphical user interface may include a cluster labeling module that allows a user to assign a new text label and or modify currently assigned text labels to each cluster and or image. For example cluster labeling module may display each cluster with its current text label and the labels assigned to individual images in the cluster and allow the user to modify the text label assigned to the cluster. A cluster merging module may allow a user to merge or split clusters. Such manual merging or splitting of clusters may be desired by a user after having viewed the images in one or more clusters. A cluster editing module may allow a user to add or delete individual images from clusters. Module may be useful in manually eliminating a poor representation of a cluster s corresponding landmark as well as to manually add one or more new images of a clusters corresponding landmark. In addition to the above embodiments of the present invention may offer the user various options in interacting with the system .

Returning to in some embodiments a popularity module may compute a popularity score for each visual cluster and rank the visual clusters accordingly. One or more of the indexes used for accessing landmark database may be based on the popularity rankings computed by the popularity module. The popularity score of a cluster may be based on one or more of the total number of images in the cluster number of unique users who have contributed images to the cluster the number of images or images with unique user identifiers that are within a certain predetermined radius of the center of the visual cluster. It should be understood that the popularity score may also be computed using other methods not described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention the landmark database is grown incrementally. is an exemplary process that may be used to incrementally grow the landmark database. Newly available geo tagged images are downloaded to local storage or made available to the processing module by other means in stage . In stage geo clustering is implemented over all available geo tagged images including the new geo tagged images. Geo clustering was described above with respect to . In stage the geo clusters resulting from stage are subjected to visual clustering. Visual clustering was described above with respect to . Having completed the visual clustering in stage some embodiments may propagate some or all of the changes initiated by the user on the previous clustering in the visual clustering previously stored in the landmark database. For example the user assigned or modified tags may be propagated to the new clustering. Optionally in stage the new visual clustering may be subjected to user verification and manual edit. Several types of user interaction were described above with respect to .

The system having a landmark database may enable many applications. For example the landmark database may be used to supplement user queries in order to make the queries more focused. illustrates a process that may be used to supplement user queries in one embodiment. A received user query may be parsed for a set of predetermined trigger words in stage . For example city names such as Paris may be used to trigger for landmarks in the city or vice versa. Having identified trigger words in the query the landmark database may be searched in stage for those trigger words to identify associated tag words. Following the earlier example a trigger word of Paris may cause the search to discover Eiffel Tower . The associated tag words that are identified are then used to supplement the query string in stage . Such supplemented query strings may be useful for finding a broader spectrum of relevant information.

Another application in one embodiment of the present invention is shown in . Process may be used for on line automated tagging of digital images. For example in stage a new digital image is compared to images in the landmark image database. If one or more matching images are found then tags are generated in stage based on all the matching images. In stage the new image is tagged with the newly generated tags.

In stage a determination is made as to whether there are more visual clusters to be displayed corresponding to the selected landmark. If no more visual clusters are to be displayed for the selected landmark then in stage information about the landmark is displayed. For example information such as the name and location of the landmark popularity number of images etc. can be displayed. For each landmark displayed in stage a corresponding user input graphic may also be displayed and enabled for user input. For example in a checkbox may receive user input corresponding to the landmark displayed in area . In stage a determination is made as to whether there are additional landmarks to be displayed. If all landmarks that satisfy the user specified selection criteria have been displayed then in stage user input corresponding to visual clusters is received. The user input corresponding to visual clusters may indicate for example that one or more clusters are to be merged or that one or more clusters are to be disassociated from the selected landmark. In stage the visual clusters are processed accordingly. In stage user input corresponding to each landmark is received. The user input corresponding to each landmark may indicate for example that one or more landmarks are to be merged and or deleted.

In an embodiment of the present invention the system and components of the present invention described herein are implemented using well known computers. Such a computer can be any commercially available and well known computer capable of performing the functions described herein such as computers available from International Business Machines Apple Silicon Graphics Inc. Sun HP Dell Compaq Digital Cray etc.

Any apparatus or manufacture comprising a computer usable or readable medium having control logic software stored therein is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to a computer a main memory a hard disk or a removable storage unit. Such computer program products having control logic stored therein that when executed by one or more data processing devices cause such data processing devices to operate as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

