---

title: Detecting tumorous breast tissue in a thermal image
abstract: 


is also determined, where Pis a number of pixels around a border of a suspected tumor within the selected region, and Pis a number of pixels in a perimeter of the selected region. A decision fusion rule R, as more fully disclosed herein, is utilized to determine, based on these determination whether tissue within that region is cancerous, or non-cancerous, or is suspicious of being cancerous.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486146&OS=09486146&RS=09486146
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09486146
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150325
---
This patent application is related to concurrently filed and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 668 178 entitled Software Interface Tool For Breast Cancer Screening by Krithika Venkataramani et al. which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The present invention is specifically directed to a software interface tool for breast cancer screening and a method for detecting cancerous breast tissue in a thermal image of the breast.

Breast cancer incidence rates are relatively high in women. Nearly 1 in 8 women in the western world and nearly 1 in 11 women in India will have breast cancer. In the western world it is the leading cancer in women. In India for example it is the second after cervical cancer. Early detection is key to survival as the mortality rates are high for advanced stages. Mammography is considered the gold standard for breast cancer screening. Screening for breast cancers are commonly done via manual detection of a lump in the breast tissue and or by an in office mammography exam followed by human interpretation of the image created during the examination. In the mammography exam the subject is subject to highly personal physical contact and a procedure which many subjects find discomforting. In subjects with dense breast tissue the exam may not be as effective in spotting malignancies as for other subjects. Moreover the equipment required for mammography is relatively large and relatively expensive. Since mammography is an x ray machine it cannot be used at homes without supervision. The x ray radiation itself may result in cancer. It is also not effective for younger women due to the dense breast tissue. There is also some evidence that the physical manipulation of the breast tissue during mammography could rupture the malignant cysts thereby increasing risk of spreading the malignant cells to other tissues and into the subject s blood stream.

Thermography is an emerging alternative non invasive and non contact screening method for breast cancer detection. Thermal imaging captures the infra red emissivity from the human body in the 7 10 m wavelength range. Thermal imaging devices are useful for the detection of thermal activity in breast tissue due to a tumor s growth being enabled by causing new blood vessels to grow disproportionately through angiogenesis in the area of the tumor relative to surrounding tissue. This increased biophysical activity beneath the skin surface associated with tumor growth results in a higher metabolic rate which in turn results in an elevated temperature in that tissue. This appears as a hotspot in a thermal image containing that tissue. Recently interest has been rekindled in thermography as a breast cancer screening approach with the improvement in thermal camera resolution and technology.

Trained radiologists and thermographers look for these abnormalities in thermal images to make a determination whether tissue is cancerous or is suspicious of being cancerous. If so the subject may need to undergo additional tests such as sonomammography followed by cancer diagnosis through histopathology by fine needle aspiration cytology or tissue biopsy. Thermographers and radiologists are increasingly demanding more powerful visualization software interface tools to assist them. Moreover since medical practitioners trained in thermography are not readily available in rural areas in emerging markets like India automatic screening tools will help open up these market for software applications for breast cancer screening and detection.

Accordingly what is needed in this art are increasingly software tools which enable subjects as well as medical practitioners to manually or automatically analyze a thermal image of an area of breast tissue for the presence of cancerous tissue.

What is disclosed is a software interface tool for breast cancer screening that is designed for medical professionals to view and analyze suspicious regions for hot spots and hence facilitate a determination of whether identified areas of breast tissue are cancerous. Isotherm maps are constructed at designated temperature resolution. Maps are displayed on the screen. Point click on the isotherm map can extract temperature values of pixels within the region covered by the isotherm contours. Also provided are isothermic views at different viewing angles which is advantageous for visual detection. Additional functionalities for hotspot selection cropping zooming viewing at different angles etc. are also enable by the present software interface. The present software interface further utilizes a tumor detection method which is also disclosed herein. In one embodiment the present tumor detection method involves selecting a region of interest in the thermal image to be processed for breast cancer screening. Thereafter a percentage of pixels pin the selected region having a temperature T where T T T is determined. A percentage of pixels pin the selected region having a temperature T where T T is determined. A ratio

Features and advantages of the above described software interface tool and tumor detection method will become readily apparent from the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

What is disclosed is a software interface tool for breast cancer screening and a method for detecting cancerous tissue in a thermal image of a breast.

A subject refers to a living being. Although the term person or patient may be used throughout this disclosure it should be appreciated that the subject may be something other than a human such as for example a primate. Therefore the use of such terms is not to be viewed as limiting the scope of the appended claims strictly to humans. shows an example human female patent .

A thermal imaging system is a camera with a lens that focuses infrared energy from objects in a scene onto an array of specialized sensors which convert infrared energy into electrical signals on a per pixel basis and outputs a thermal image comprising an array of pixels with color values corresponding to surface temperatures of the objects in the image across a thermal wavelength band. shows a thermal imaging system capturing a thermal image of a female subject which in turn is communicated to a workstation via a wireless transmissive element shown as an antenna. Although the subject in is female the subject subject may be male. The thermal imaging system can be any of a single band infrared camera a multi band infrared camera in the thermal range and a hyperspectral infrared camera in the thermal range. Specialized processors inside the thermal camera associate pixel color values with different temperatures and provide output color values of each pixel in the resulting thermal image. The resolution for a thermal camera is effectively the size of the pixel. Smaller pixels mean that more pixels will go into the image for the same region of interest giving the resulting image higher resolution and thus better spatial definition. Because the amount of black body radiation emitted by an object increases with the object s temperature variations in temperatures of objects are observable in a thermal image. Thermal cameras generally consist of five primary components 1 optics comprising specialized focal plane arrays FPAs that respond to defined wavelengths of the infrared range of the electromagnetic EM spectrum 7.5 to 14 m 2 a detector for detecting radiation in the infrared range 3 an amplifier for amplifying the received radiation 4 a display for viewing the captured images and 5 signal processing hardware such as a CPU memory storage for performing mathematical algorithms which interpret data and construct an IR image. Common thermal imaging systems include InSb InGaAs HgCdTe and QWIP FPA. Newer technologies utilize an uncooled Microbolometer as FPA sensors. Thermal cameras offer a relatively large dynamic range of temperature settings. However for the purposes hereof it is preferable that the camera s temperature range be relatively small centered around subject s body surface temperature so that small temperature variations are amplified in terms of pixel color changes to provide a better measure of temperature variation. The reader is directed to any of a variety of texts on thermal imaging including Michael Vollmer Klaus Peter M llmann Wiley VCH 1Ed. 2010 ISBN 13 978 3527407170 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. A method for enhancing a spatial resolution of a thermal image or a portion thereof is disclosed in Processing A Video For Spatial And Temporal Magnification With Minimized Image Degradation U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 708 125 by Mestha et al. which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Thermal cameras are readily available in various streams of commerce. Thermal images are captured using a thermal imaging system.

A thermal image is an image captured using a thermal camera. Each thermal image comprises a plurality of pixels with each pixel having an associated corresponding temperature value. A thermal image of a subject s breasts is shown in the visualization screen of . The thermal images are received by the workstation for manipulation by various aspects of the functionality of the software interface disclosed herein. Although the thermal images herein are shown in black white it should be appreciated that thermal images are in color.

 Receiving a thermal image is intended to be widely construed and includes retrieving receiving capturing acquiring or otherwise obtaining a thermal image or a video comprising a plurality of thermal images for processing in accordance with the methods disclosed herein. Thermal images can be retrieved from a memory or storage device of the thermal imaging device or obtained from a remote device over a network. Thermal images may be retrieved from a media such as a CDROM or DVD. Thermal images may be downloaded from a web based system which makes such images available for processing. Thermal images can also be retrieved using an application such as those which are widely available for handheld cellular devices and processed on the user s cellphone or other handheld computing device such as an iPad or tablet. Thermal images are of a breast area of a subject.

A breast area of the subject encompasses tissue of the breast itself and may further include portions of surrounding non breast tissue as are needed for breast cancer screening and detection. Regions of breast tissue are automatically or manually identified in the thermal image for analysis.

A software interface tool is a composite of user selectable functionality displayed on a display device such as a touchscreen display of a computer workstation. shows one example embodiment of the present software interface tool . Various embodiments of the present software interface tool comprise a visualization screen a temperature bar and a plurality of selectable software objects.

A VISUALIZATION SCREEN refers to a portion of the software interface tool shown at wherein at least one thermal image of at least one breast of a subject is displayed.

A TEMPERATURE BAR refers to a portion of the present software interface tool shown at wherein temperature values which are associated with the various colors comprising the displayed thermal image are shown.

A selectable software object refers to a graphical widget which can take a variety of forms such as for instance a button a pull down menu a slidable bar and the like as are commonly known and widely understood in the software arts. Specialized machine readable executable program instructions associated with a particular button is designed to perform functionality represented by that particular widget. Once selected by a user clicking a mouse thereon or manually touching that particular button on a touch sensitive display device causes a central processor unit CPU to retrieve those program instructions from memory and execute those instructions.

The LOAD object shown at is a widget which when selected effectuates a display of an infrared image on the visualization screen . Pixels in the image having a highest temperature value are displayed in first color and pixels having a lowest temperature are displayed in second color. Pixels with temperature values between the lowest and highest temperatures are displayed in gradations of color between the first and second colors. Temperature values associated with the displayed colors appear on the temperature bar .

A 2D ISOTHERM object is a widget which when selected effectuates a 2D display of contour lines on the visualization screen . The contour lines circumscribe or bound various groups of colored pixels in the image which have substantially similar temperature values.

A 3D ISOTHERM object is a widget which when selected effectuates a 3D display of contour lines on the visualization screen wherein an increasing height of the contour lines is associated with an increase in temperature values of pixels in the displayed thermal image.

A ZOOMING object enables a user to enlarge any portion of the displayed image. In one embodiment zooming is performed using an embodiment of the image enhancement method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 708 125 entitled Processing A Video For Spatial And Temporal Magnification With Minimized Image Degradation by Mestha et al. Allowed 11 25 2014 .

A NORMALIZATION object normalizes temperatures within an identified region of interest to a highest temperature or alternatively to a lowest temperature value.

A SAVE object enables the user to save any portion of the displayed image to a memory or storage device.

A TEXT AREA at wherein messages are displayed for the user such as for example a message indicating a probability that the tissue in the identified region of interest can be categorized as being any of thermal BIRADs category thermos biological category non cancerous category suspicious of being cancerous category and cancerous category.

A FRAME SLIDER object enables a user to move forward and backward within a video such that a different image frame is displayed on the visualization screen.

An ISOTHERM GRADATION object effectuates the selection of a temperature gradation for the displayed contour lines.

A GRADATION object effectuates the selection of a temperature gradation for the displayed contour lines.

A REGION OF INTEREST ROI object enables either the manual or automatic selection of at least one region of interest in the displayed thermal image. A region of interest can be identified in a thermal image using any of a wide array of image processing techniques which include for example object identification pattern recognition pixel classification color texture spatial relationships and or spatial features. A region of interest can be manually identified using for instance a mouse to draw a rubber band box around a region of interest. One example region of interest which substantially comprises the right and left breasts of the subject is shown at in . shows the subject s left breast having been selected as a region of interest. shows a region of interest substantially comprising the subject s left breast having been manually selected by a user. Example displayed 2D contour lines of the regions of interest of are shown in . Example displayed 2D contour lines of the regions of interest of are shown in . It should be appreciated that in the absence of a selection of a region of interest the entire thermal image becomes the region of interest by default.

A RIGHT BREAST RB object enables the automatic identification of the right breast in the displayed image.

A LEFT BREAST LB object enables the automatic identification and segmentation of the left breast in the displayed image.

A RIGHT AXILLA RA object and a LEFT AXILLA LA object effectuate automatic selection of a right and left regions of interest specifically adjacent tissues containing lymph nodes.

A VISUAL ENHANCEMENT object enables a region of tissue to be visually enhanced by being displayed prominently in the displayed thermal image by subduing surrounding tissue. shows an area of the subject s left breast in the contour image of having been visually enhanced by highlighting the desired area and subduing areas outside that area.

A SCREENING object effectuates the manual or automatic screening of the breast tissue in the identified region of interest for the presence of cancerous tissue the absence of cancerous tissue or the suspicion of cancerous tissue. In one embodiment specialized machine readable executable program instructions associated with the screening object effectuates a detection protocol which includes any combination of a histogram distance method fractal dimensions texture based deep learning machine learning neural network bio heat based frequency domain based 2D and 3D.

It should be appreciated that the steps of determining analyzing identifying receiving processing selecting performing and the like as used herein include the application of various signal processing and mathematical operations applied to data and signals according to any specific context or for any specific purpose. It should be appreciated that such steps may be facilitated or otherwise effectuated by a microprocessor executing machine readable program instructions retrieved from a memory or storage device.

Reference is now being made to the flow diagram of which illustrates one example embodiment of a method for detecting tumorous breast tissue using a thermal image. Flow processing starts at steps and immediately proceeds to step .

At step receive a thermal image of exposed breast skin tissue of a subject being screened for breast cancer. The thermal image has been captured by a thermal imaging system. The received thermal image can be displayed on the visualization interface by a user having selected the LOAD object of the software interface tool of . One example thermal imaging system is shown and discussed with respect to the example embodiment of . Example thermal images are shown in .

At step select a region of interest ROI in the thermal image. Example selected regions of interest are shown in . A region of interest can be manually or automatically selected by a user selection of the ROI object of the software interface tool of . The following functionality would be implemented in response to a user having selected the SCREENING object of the software interface tool of .

At step determine a percentage of pixels pwithin the selected region of interest which have a temperature Tsuch that T T T. In this embodiment T T where Tis a maximum temperature of the subject and T T 1 C.

At step determine a percentage of pixels pwithin the selected ROI with a second temperature Tsuch that T T. In this embodiment T T T T 3 where Tis an average temperature of the subject.

At step using a decision fusion rule R to determine that tissue within the selected region of interest is one of cancerous non cancerous or suspicious of being cancerous.

At step communicate the determined result to a medical professional. The determination may also be communicated to a memory a storage device a display device a handheld wireless device a handheld cellular device and or a remote device over a network. Thereafter in this embodiment further processing stops.

It should also be appreciated that the flow diagrams depicted herein are illustrative. One or more of the operations may be performed in a differing order. Other operations may be added modified enhanced or consolidated. Variations thereof are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

Reference is now being made to which is a functional block diagram of a special purpose computer system for implementing various aspect of the present software interface tool of and the tumor detection method shown and described with respect to the flow diagram of . Such a special purpose processor is capable of executing machine executable program instructions and may comprise any of a micro processor micro controller ASIC electronic circuit or any combination thereof.

In communications bus is in communication with a central processing unit CPU capable of executing machine readable program instructions for performing any of the calculations comparisons logical operations and other program instructions for performing any of the steps described above with respect to the flow diagrams and illustrated embodiments hereof. Processor is in communication with memory ROM and memory RAM which collectively constitute example storage devices. Such memory may be used to store machine readable program instructions and other program data and results to sufficient to carry out any of the functionality described herein. Disk controller interfaces with one or more storage devices which may comprise external memory zip drives flash memory USB drives or other devices such as CD ROM drive and floppy drive . Storage device stores machine executable program instructions for executing the methods hereof. Such storage devices may be used to implement a database wherein various records are stored. Display interface effectuates the display of information on display in various formats such as for instance audio graphic text and the like. Interface effectuates a communication via keyboard and mouse collectively a graphical user interface. Such a graphical user interface is useful for a user to enter information about any of the displayed information in accordance with various embodiments hereof. Communication with external devices may occur using example communication port s . Such ports may be placed in communication with any of the example networks shown and described herein such as the Internet or an intranet either by direct wired link or wireless link. Example communication ports include modems network cards such as an Ethernet card routers a PCMCIA slot and card USB ports and the like capable of transferring data from one device to another. Software and data is transferred via the communication ports in the form of signals which may be any of digital analog electromagnetic optical infrared or other signals capable of being transmitted and or received by the communications interface. Such signals may be implemented using for example a wire cable fiber optic phone line cellular link RF or other signal transmission means presently known in the arts or which have been subsequently developed.

The teachings hereof can be implemented in hardware or software using any known or later developed systems structures devices and or software by those skilled in the applicable art without undue experimentation from the functional description provided herein with a general knowledge of the relevant arts. Moreover the methods hereof can be implemented as a routine embedded on a personal computer or as a resource residing on a server or workstation such as a routine embedded in a plug in a driver or the like. The teachings hereof may be partially or fully implemented in software using object or object oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer workstation server network or other hardware platforms. One or more of the capabilities hereof can be emulated in a virtual environment as provided by an operating system and other specialized programs such Windows or Java.

One or more aspects of the teaching disclosed herein are intended to be incorporated in an article of manufacture including one or more computer program products having computer usable or machine readable media. The article of manufacture may be included on at least one storage device readable by a machine architecture embodying executable program instructions capable of performing the methods described herein. The article of manufacture may be shipped sold leased or otherwise provided separately either alone or as part of an add on update upgrade or product suite.

It will be appreciated that the above disclosed and other features and functionality or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. As such various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may become apparent and or subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims. Accordingly the embodiments set forth above are illustrative and not limiting. Changes to the above described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The teachings of any printed publications including patents and patent applications are each separately hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

