---

title: Method and apparatus for remote voice-over or music production and management
abstract: A desktop application and supporting web site for capturing audio and video recordings is introduced, wherein multiple participants in a collaborative session may be in separate remote locations. The application includes providing a high quality data format for transferring recordings, audiovisual data and the like to a remote network location or computer and a real-time data format for intercommunicating comments and instructions that are not recorded. Peer-to-peer and server-client implementations may be optimized regarding delivery time versus take quality. The desktop application also provides mechanisms for playing back sound and video for participants' reference during a recording, along with synchronized presentations of textual, audio and visual material corresponding to the session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635312&OS=09635312&RS=09635312
owner: SOUNDSTREAK, LLC
number: 09635312
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151211
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 220 482 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOTE VOICE OVER OR MUSIC PRODUCTION AND MANAGEMENT filed in the name of Caligor et al. on Aug. 29 2011 which application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 563 868 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOTE VOICE OVER OR MUSIC PRODUCTION AND MANAGEMENT filed in the name of David J. Coleman on Sep. 21 2009 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 663 986 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOTE VOICE OVER OR MUSIC PRODUCTION AND MANAGEMENT filed in the name of David J. Coleman on Mar. 27 2007 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 592 532 on Sep. 22 2009 which in turn claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 371 as a National Stage filing corresponding to PCT Patent Application Ser. No. PCT US2005 034850 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOTE VOICEOVER OR MUSIC PRODUCTION AND MANAGEMENT filed in the name of David J. Coleman on Sep. 27 2005 which claims priority in the United States of America under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 613 572 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOTE VOICEOVER OR MUSIC PRODUCTION AND MANAGEMENT filed on Sep. 27 2004 in the name of David J. Coleman the entirety of each are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention generally relates to data processing involving the management of audio and video recording.

Remote audio recording typically involves several distinct steps and several parties. The steps are auditions signing a contract scheduling a session recording a performance delivering recorded takes to an editor or other recipient paying for services rendered and reconciling accounts. Typically there are a minimum of three parties involved fulfilling several roles including the artist who performs the agent who manages the artists affairs the producer who handles business and logistical affairs for the production the director who provides instruction to the artist the engineer who manages technical setup and operation of the recording equipment the editor or technician who manipulates the resulting audio files the sponsor of the project who may be an advertising client television or studio executive or corporate sponsor. In many cases one individual will perform several of these roles.

In the endeavor of voice over video and music production for audio or audio visual media such as commercials advertisements television programs movies and the like there are a variety of costs in completing such productions. These costs generally include studio rental travel expenses and salaries for production staff and the talent employed for the production.

In order to reduce such costs and with the advent of high speed data transfer over computer networks remote recording for voice over production has been gaining wider acceptance. Remote recording is generally accomplished today using any of a variety of available technologies. In one example used primarily in remote audio production dedicated integrated services digital network ISDN lines are provided between the location of production staff and a separate location for the hired talent for purposes of communication. This high end approach has been used for over a decade and allows full duplex communication 2 way talking thru the ISDN lines to manage the production. Such methods allow multiple tracks of a sound mix so that talent may read a script while hearing audio tracks in their headphone. However such setups require expensive encoding and decoding hardware on each end and expensive dedicated data lines from a telecommunications provider. In the case of an audiovisual production such setups also do not allow the talent to read the script while watching corresponding video read to picture . In addition recordings are generally made at the receiving end usually a professional sound studio and not in the talent s home or preferred location this means the audio must be compressed to accommodate bandwidth limitations and can lead to lost takes if the connection is disrupted.

Another existing remote production setup involves a phone session employing file transfer protocol FTP . In recent years this has become a common method for remote recording. In this setup the producer or director may call the talent on the phone and direct him or her over the phone. The talent then records the tracks on for example his home computer and later transfers the resulting recordings to production staff in one of several ways. However the size of the resulting file may oftentimes be too large to send via FTP and so the talent must edit out the unwanted parts name the resulting file appropriately and then upload the file to a server so the Producer Director can download it.

A still further remote production setup involves initiating a phone session for purposes of direction and management recording the session in an MP3 or other digital format and e mailing or otherwise transmitting the recorded session to production staff. MP3 compression allows for file sizes that are small enough to be e mailed or otherwise easily transferred over the Internet. However such audio compression formats may reduce the sound quality of the recorded session and therefore be inappropriate for use in high quality productions.

Some producers have opted for unsupervised voice over music work with remote productions. In such cases the producer director will e mail or fax a script to the talent who will read it without being directed and will then send the recorded tracks back by FTP e mail or other appropriate method as described previously. However unsupervised sessions may result in recordings which upon review by the production staff prove unsatisfactory for creative or technical reasons and so such methods have the potential to actually increase costs when remedial recording sessions are necessary.

Accordingly there is a need for a method and apparatus for remote voice over music production and management that addresses certain problems in existing methods and technologies.

It is an object of the present disclosure therefore to introduce various features of a method and apparatus for managing remote voice over music productions in which a software application enables a high quality data format to be established for transmitting recorded takes script data text and or music and audiovisual data between a producer and a recording talent. The high quality data format ensures no compromises are made in quality or completeness and is transferred between session participants at whatever pace their respective computers and network connections allow. A lower quality real time data format is established for allowing the producer or other session participants to monitor performances in real time and transmit verbal comments to each other during a session. Audio visual components including script data video footage with or without existing sound audio tracks take notes and session specific information may be exchanged between the computers of session participants. Recording and playback of audio can be synchronized with video footage Read to Picture or existing audio files a sound bed to provide context to both the Talent and other session participants. When video or audio sound bed is time coded or contains synch marks corresponding information can be embedded in the resulting digital audio files. A variety of mechanisms for delivering high quality uncompressed recordings to a designated computer email address or network location during and after the recording session are enabled. Various parties may be billed for their activities.

As used herein and unless otherwise indicated the following terms shall be understood to have the corresponding meanings and any equivalents thereto with respect to this disclosure 

SOUNDSTREAK Site an Internet or network site for coordinating interactions between producers and talent that have desktop SOUNDSTREAK software as well as for billing respective parties.

Producer Component all software components resident on the producer s computer that collectively interact with the SOUNDSTREAK site and talent computers.

Talent Component all software components resident on the talent s computer that collectively interact with the SOUNDSTREAK site and producer computers.

Common Components SOUNDSTREAK software components resident on both the producer and talent computers.

JMF Java Media Framework designed by SUN MICROSYSTEMS to provide a generic specification for media processing and streaming.

Audiovisual material Video or audio content which pre exists the SOUNDSTREAK session and which is used during recording and playback for context. May include text video existing audio tracks or any combination thereof.

Currently many voice actors Talent have home studios with soundproof booths for recording remote sessions from their homes or other preferred locations. It would be advantageous to introduce a system that can avail itself of these circumstances. Accordingly various aspects of the present disclosure may be established and performed with these existing setups and without the introduction of new and complicated hardware.

In certain embodiments the sound recording management software now introduced sometimes referred to herein as SOUNDSTREAK is a desktop application that harnesses the accessibility provided by the Internet to allow remote recording and management of voice over music and other forms of audio animated and video production. SOUNDSTREAK may also operate as a web based application or as an application on a tablet computing device smart phone or any other like device with sufficient processing and storage capabilities. In some embodiments interaction between the desktop applications and or the web based applications will be facilitated via communication through a shared server. In other embodiments the communication will be direct employing a peer to peer model. Such server client and peer to peer embodiments provide separate advantages regarding optimizing the transfer of data between session participants as will be described in more detail herein below.

SOUNDSTREAK will have functionality that allows producers to audition talent manage recordings created in other applications and the takes generated in SOUNDSTREAK sessions and invoice parties for services rendered. In addition the paper trail usually generated from recording sessions can now be facilitated electronically.

The core SOUNDSTREAK functionality is the Session a scheduled or ad hoc appointment with the artist where one or more recordings Takes are made saved to the artist s hard drive and or transferred to Recipient s computer s as appropriate. Architecturally Sessions will be grouped under Projects which can be defined by SOUNDSTREAK users according to their particular needs.

In some embodiments the constituent roles of SOUNDSTREAK sessions will be modular such that a given session participant will be able to fill one or more of these roles in various combinations. These roles include Talent the actor or musician whose performance is being recorded Engineer who controls the session including setting parameters such as recording format and quality marking selected buy takes for transfer controlling playback and recording and so on Observer whose role is limited to listening and or watching audiovisual material and optionally to communicating with other participants Sponsor who pays for session and or authorizes other parties to act as technical or business administrators and Recipient who receives transferred takes through a computer email or FTP address or other destination. In these embodiments the modular roles can be combined in various ways to accommodate a variety of participation scenarios. For example an actor may purchase a session herself Sponsor run the session from her computer Engineer select takes for automatic delivery to a network address i.e. specify Recipient and invite a client to observe the session i.e. invite Observer . Alternatively the producer may choose to run the session as Sponsor Engineer and Observer and relieve the Talent of any responsibility beyond performing while inviting additional Observers to participate in the session. The Sponsor the Engineer the Talent or an administrator depending on business context can assign roles. In such modular embodiments it is contemplated that the software will configure itself to support the specified roles for each participant on a session by session basis.

In the embodiment described below SOUNDSTREAK sessions have two distinctly defined participants the Talent and the Producer who fills the Sponsor Engineer and Recipient roles as described above . However in some embodiments sessions may be open to any number of participants in any number of locations with roles defined on a modular basis as described above.

In SOUNDSTREAK a producer will set up a Session and enter all the relevant information available at the time as detailed below . Once a Session is set up the producer will input the script information if applicable select and or upload audio visual content if applicable choose a Talent and specify all recipients of necessary communications. All account and session management data may be communicated via the Internet or any other suitable data or communications network. The actual recording process however may be conducted through an interface with substantial desktop functionality. The producer will be able to listen to the recording over real time audio stream while the talent s computer simultaneously records a high quality recording. In some embodiments a lower resolution Take may also be recorded to facilitate rapid transfer to the Producer for playback on their computer. Once satisfied with the takes the producer can transfer selected high quality recordings via quality controlled FTP to his or her desk top. The producer will also have the ability to receive play and store the high quality recording within the client application.

SOUNDSTREAK may be a time billed software product. In such embodiments it may record the amount of time the producer and talent are connected in each session and either decrement credits from the producer s pre paid account or generate invoices for later billing. In the case of invoice billing SOUND STREAK will keep an internal log of connection hours used and if the account becomes delinquent will disable the connectivity options of the user.

Referring now to wherein similar components of the present disclosure are referenced in like manner various embodiments of a method and apparatus for remote voice over music production and management are now introduced.

Turning now to there is depicted an exemplary computer network over which the voice over music production and management processes of the present disclosure may be performed. In certain embodiments the computer network may be the Internet. However the computer network may be any suitable public or private network over which the data described herein may be transferred. Accordingly the computer network may be any of a wide area network WAN a local area network a wireless network a fiber optic network other network technologies not yet in common use and or any combination of the same. The configuration provided in is for purposes of example only and the present processes are not to be interpreted as being limited to such configuration.

The exemplary computer network includes a production computer that is operated by a producer director or other production staff and further includes a talent computer that is operated by an actor or actress or musician Talent hired for a production. Preferably the data is transmitted over a high speed data line such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable modem ISDN T 1 T 2 T 3 fiber optic or other high speed connection. The computers transmit various data in one or more high quality data formats and other data in one or more low quality data formats. In some embodiments higher quality data may be provided over a first connection while lower quality data is provided by a separate lower quality connection. However it is readily contemplated that the data formats may be transmitted over a single connection.

In the case of audio data the high quality data format may be any one or more of the following conventionally used formats or the like .AVI uncompressed audio formats such as WAV AIFF AU or raw header less PCM and formats with lossless compression such as FLAC MNKEY AUDIO .APE WavPack .WV TTA ATRAC Advanced Lossless ALAC .M4A MPEG 4 SLS MPEG 4 ALS MPEG 4 DST Windows Media Audio Lossless WMA Lossless and Shorten SHN . The low quality or real time data format may be any one or more of existing codecs used for VOIP Voice Over Internet Protocol or other audio data formats e.g. Formats with lossy compression such as OPUS MP3 VORBIS MUSEPACK AAC ATRAC and Windows Media Audio Lossy WMA that typically use less data space or bandwidth than the high quality formats due to the use of compression and the like. Lower quality formats may also be of the same format as the high quality formats but instead use a lower audio sampling rate to achieve lower bandwidth usage and size. This has the advantage of reduced computer processing and network bandwidth usage during a remote production. Video and animated data formats may include any one or more of the following .WEBM FLASH VIDEO .FLV .F4V .VOB OGG video .OGG DIRAC .DRC .FKI .GIF .GIFV MULTIPLE IMAGE NETWORK GRAPHICS .MNG .AVI QUICKTIME WINDOWS MEDIA VIDEO .WMV REALMEDIA .RM ADVANCED SYSTEM FORMAT .ASF MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 .M4V .MVC .SVI 3GPP 3GPP2 MATERIAL EXCHANGE FORMAT .MXF MICROSOFT RIFF TDDD TTDDD 3D video formats VRML .DXF ADOBE CHARACTER ANIMATOR and NULLSOFT STREAMING VIDEO .NSV . Other available formats for audio animated and video data capture and transmission may likewise be used.

In various embodiments the production computer and the talent computer may communicate the high quality data and the low quality data over a single physical network connection. It is readily contemplated however that the computers may in some embodiments communicate via two separate data transmission lines in which high quality data usually having a larger data size is transmitted over a higher speed line such as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN services and lower quality data is transmitted over a lower speed transmission line such as a dial up connection.

Data may be transmitted between the computers using any of the variety of data formats including but not limited to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP and data streaming technologies. Data transmissions may also be encrypted with any of a variety of known technologies if desired.

Each of the production computer and the talent computer may be any suitable computing device used to accomplish the processes introduced. Suitable devices include personal computers netbooks tablet computing devices such as IP ADS or other tablet devices smart phones and other devices which meet the processing and storage requirements of the application or can be attached to peripherals that meet the processing and storage requirements of the application.

The production computer may be for example a personal computer of the type commonly manufactured by IBM CORP. APPLE CORP. or SUN MICROSYSTEMS with suitable operating system software e.g. WINDOWS XP WINDOWS 7 MAC OS X SUN OS application software and audio video recording management software the last of which containing programming instructions which assist production staff and talent in performing the processes herein. The audio video recording management software may be programmed in any suitable computing language and may be a standalone application or may be provisioned to the production computer and or talent computer over the network by a third party computer which may act as a SOUNDSTREAK server in accordance with the descriptions that follow. In various embodiments the audio video recording management software may also be a plugin to existing sound and video editing applications such as AVID FINAL CUT PRO and PROTOOLS or a web based application accessed through a browser.

The talent computer may also be any suitable computing device for example a home personal computing system of the type commonly manufactured by IBM CORP. APPLE CORP. or SUN MICROSYSTEMS. The talent computer also includes an operating system and application software which may or may not be the same as those components of the production computer but which may be compatible therewith. The talent computer further includes the audio video recording management software which allows the talent personnel to perform their functions as described herein below.

The following exemplary common SOUNDSTREAK software components may reside on both producer and announcer computers 

 i Meeting Agent When SOUNDSTREAK starts this component will ask for user login identification ID password and then communicate to a Meeting Coordinator to finish the session initialization. This component abstracts the implementation of a SIP client and performs functions similar to a Software Internet Phone.

 ii Communication Handler This component will allocate two local User Datagram Protocol UDP ports used by RTP and RTCP respectively for voice communications and a transmission control protocol TCP port waiting for FTP delivery. For announcers two extra TCP ports for RTP and RTCP shall be allocated for reliable video delivery. Then it will wait for Meeting Agent to inform other participants information. After all required information is available the component will try to initiate connections to the other participants and periodically check and ensure communication channels are still working. For media streaming channels this component will check returned RTCP packets to ensure the channel health. This component may be expanded to use Port Punch or other mechanisms in order to handle communications issues such NAT or Firewall.

 iii Resource Organizer This component organizes resources such as video recorded sounds scripts and histories into a project and map each project to a disk folder. This component will help a system locate and store the related resources to facilitate recording processes.

 iv Meeting Status Panel This component presents the status information such as producer names talent names and account information.

 v Media Stream Sender This component delivers sound and video for example via RTP streaming. The implementation shall be able to do streaming via UDP or TCP based on the request type.

 vi Resource Sender This component delivers resources including recorded sound files and information to be posted with guarantee of receipt.

 vii Media Stream Receiver This component receives sound and video via for example RTP streaming. Certain implementations are able to handle streaming via UDP or TCP based on the request type.

 viii Resource Receiver This component receives resources including recorded sound files and information to be posted.

 ix Video Terminal This component plays video and provides play time information by either passive query or active notification for synchronization. It also provides a play controller for users.

 x Audio Player This component plays audio independently. When audio can be defined as a track of multiplexed media it shall be played together with video. This can be used in cases such as Talk Back described below.

 xi Script Viewer This component presents the current script dynamically based on the time information notified by Video Terminal and shows a visual signal in advance for announcers be prepared to speak out. A script panel will be presented by ScriptViewer as read only for talent and by a ScriptEditor for producers to edit scripts and mark the beginning time of each script element.

 xii Operation Control Panel This component provides buttons for those operations such as Talk Back Start and Stop recording and notifies other components of events to handle.

 xiii Recording Status Panel This component presents current recording status and historical information and allows producers to insert and edit comments.

 xiv Recording Status Renderer This component presents recording status information such as 100 and REC in various styles.

 xv Sound Capturer This component captures voices from a microphone for either recording or talk back and uses the Sound Processor component to process it. Captured sounds are then routed to the Media Stream Sender for real time communications.

 xvi Sound Processor This component processes the recorded sound or voices to degrade it to a lower quality for fast delivery in Talk Back mode.

 xvii Image Capturer This component processes image data such as from a separate or integral digital camera and compresses the image data for transmission over the data communications network. Image data may be captured and transmitted in the image data formats described herein or equivalents.

 xviii Video Capturer This component processes video data such as from a separate or integral digital video camera and compresses the image data for transmission over the data communications network. Video data may be captured and transmitted in the video data formats described herein or equivalents.

 i Address Book The producer can select talent and add them to his or her Address Book whereby all or a select portion of a talent s information will be automatically stored on the producer s computer. This minimizes manual data entry and increases Address Book data quality control. It will also increase the size of producers Address Books which from a business perspective may increase user loyalty by creating a SOUNDSTREAK based business asset that is non transferable to other systems. The Add To Address Book functionality may initiated by selecting one or more check boxes next to a particular name on a list of stored talent or in a search results page pertaining to stored talent.

 ii Script Editor This component is similar to Script Viewer except it provides buttons to mark the starting time of each take and script element.

 iii Script Time Marker This component allows producers to mark time for scripts. Producers edit scripts by watching the video and control the play controller. Producers then mark the script at the right time by clicking on a marking button. The time information of the mark will be stored and used to provide visual support for talent to do recording.

 i Recording Status Reporter This component posts recording status information based on defined timing to producers for status update and SOUNDSTREAK Site for payment records.

 ii Recording Timer This component keeps track of time information for each take and the current recording as well as reporting progress

SOUNDSTREAK will specify for each type of user producer talent or other session participant what the minimum and optimal configuration is with respect to operating system random access memory RAM memory space and the like given the functionality available to that user type. In addition SOUNDSTREAK may require talent to provide an external hard drive of a specified size dedicated exclusively to SOUNDSTREAK. In such cases SOUNDSTREAK will further specify partition criteria to allow for optimum simultaneous writing recording and reading FTP transfer . Part of this optimization may require background file relocation within the specified memory device. SOUNDSTREAK may secure exclusive protected access to the drive. In the event of a major computer failure the talent must be able to take the external drive to an alternative location for file transfer.

In various embodiments a third party computer acting as a SOUNDSTREAK site may provision the audio video recording management software to the producer and talent over the network and may charge one or both parties for use of the software based for example on a total time of the recording session. The third party computer may alternatively or in addition thereto charge one or both of the producers and the talent a membership fee or subscription fee for use of the software . In various further embodiments the third party computer may also send and receive the data described herein between the producer and talent or such data may be communicated directly there between over the Internet or other network without involvement of the SOUNDSTREAK site.

Meeting Coordinator a component of the SOUNDSTREAK site that works as a SIP Proxy Server in order to maintain and look up user registries and locations. After users start SOUNDSTREAK at their computers and enter their IDs a Meeting Agent as defined in the next section will deliver user ID and location information such as Internet Protocol IP and listening ports to this component in order to update location information. This component will accept SIP Invite commands look up the invited producer location and coordinate the meeting for the Session initialization. Only the session initiations and recording time posting involve communication with SOUNDSTREAK Site. All the other communication may be accomplished directly between the producer and the talent.

In addition to the functionality above the SOUNDSTREAK site will present a visiting user with five options 1 logging in as a voice over artist or talent 2 logging in as a producer 3 browsing the talent that are members of the site 4 touring the SOUNDSTREAK product and 5 registering the user.

New users who register as producers will be asked to enter their e mail address create an alphanumeric password and confirm such password. SOUNDSTREAK will check the entered e mail address against a database of registered users. All SOUNDSTREAK user ID s must be unique. If the user and password already exist the person will be transferred to the logged in interface the assumption being anyone who knows the exact email and password of a user is in fact the user. Once a producer has selected an email and password he or she will be taken to a user information page as a next step in the registration process. New producers may be asked for the following information name title company and contact information. This data will be stored in the SOUNDSTREAK user database in appropriate fields under the type Producer. 

After a producer has registered they will click a Producer Login button. The log in may be for example the user s email address. The landing page will be the default Session Set up web page with top navigation links providing access to other areas of the site.

When new voice over talent wishes to register they will be asked to enter their e mail address create an alphanumeric password and confirm such password. SOUNDSTREAK will check the entered e mail address against its database of registered users. All SOUND STREAK user IDs must be unique. If the user and password already exist the person will be transferred to a voice over logged in interface the assumption being anyone who knows the exact email and password of a user is in fact the registered user.

Once the talent has selected an e mail and password he or she will be taken to the user information page as a next step in the registration process. All registering talent may be asked for the following information name company contact information gender agent information voice attributes voice samples and external affiliated websites if any . A talent who registers will generally be available under search browsing and shopping cart functions described herein unless they otherwise specify their availability via these functions. In such cases a separate invitation approval mechanism may be implemented to allow only approved producers access to certain talent information.

In order to accommodate the talent browsing functions described above talent are encouraged to store various attributes and information about themselves which may be reviewed by producers seeking talent for a particular production. Accordingly the talent may store any of the following 

 i Voice Attributes. Artists use a variety of classifications for describing their voices for example Hard Sell Soft Sell Accents Cartoon and the like. An exhaustive list is not provided here. Talent will have the option of classifying themselves for as many attributes as are applicable. In addition a text field with additional comments will be provided for further description.

 ii Voice samples. Talent will have the option of uploading a number of audio clips of themselves. There may be a cap on length and file size as determined by SOUNDSTREAK s infrastructure limitations.

 iii Websites. Talent can list his or her website which in turn may be hosted by the SOUNDSTREAK site for a fee.

 iv Availability. Talent may provide an indication of their availability for producers and talent or their agents must maintain and update this information over time.

Talent will also be allowed the opportunity to identify their agent or representative. For purposes of entering agent information a talent may be presented with a drop down or pop up window containing agents SOUNDSTREAK has already registered. If an existing agent is selected then in all public access cases browsing shopping cart etc the agent s contact information will be presented. For Session set up both the talent and the agent contact information will be presented since scheduling can require contacting both the agent and the talent.

Existing agent data will not generally be entered or editable by the talent. SOUNDSTREAK may instead input such data from an agent itself or from a national directory that includes the correct information. If the talent artist doesn t see his or her agent a submit agent option will be available. This information should not directly go into the website database. It will instead be sent to SOUNDSTREAK for verification. If a talent has no agent then the talent s contact information will be entered for purposes of scheduling and billing.

After a talent has registered they will click a Voice over Artist Login button. The log in ID may be the user s email address. The landing page will be the artist s profile web page with top navigation links providing access to other areas of the site. Talent will be responsible for assuring that their home studios are equipped with well functioning professional grade microphones sound dampening and all necessary signal processing equipment.

After registration any authorized SOUNDSTREAK user will have the option of looking through a directory of talent. Browsing will include alphabetical listings browsing by announcer type browsing by agent and a more robust search using keywords Boolean flags for union membership talent location and talent voice type. Once sufficient traffic is established on SOUNDSTREAK talent ratings as determined from feedback from producers in prior sessions may be provided to help establish user confidence in soliciting new talent.

Talent listings can range in complexity and richness. Talent listings may include the following exemplary fields of information pertaining to each listed talent ID Number auto generated name location agent gender union membership i.e. Screen Actors Guild SAG and or American Federation of Television and Radio Artists AFTRA contact information voice types voice sample talent web pages either SOUNDSTREAK hosted or external SOUNDSTREAK specific agency web pages talent rating and current availability. Since listing presentations may also be a revenue opportunity for operators of SOUNDSTREAK the quantity and style of presentation for a particular talent may depend on the fees paid by a talent for the listing or the like.

After registering a producer can immediately be given the option to start using SOUNDSTREAK whereas talent may not generally be taken to such Session Set Up page upon completing registration. The session set up page generally will be the same interface for all users setting up a session.

The first screen to launch for Session Set up may be Billing. Therein producers can choose between invoicing a SOUNDSTREAK approved customer paying by credit card or other financial instrument or exercising a SOUND STREAK promotional offer. The producer will have the ability to store several credit cards with SOUNDSTREAK all of which will be presented as payment options with suitable radio buttons for selecting desired options. The user will also have the ability to add a new credit card. The details of both invoice billing and credit card billing are detailed immediately below.

Studios agencies and other contractors of producing services are already in the practice of accepting invoices from sound recording facilities. Replicating this SOUNDSTREAK will set up relationships with such entities and invoice them monthly for all business conducted using SOUNDSTREAK on their behalf. The studios will be responsible for approving a list of users who have the right to use SOUNDSTREAK. If a producer is connected with any approved vendors such vendors will appear as a drop down option. There is provided a help link that upon selection by a user will launch a pop up window explaining how a studio sets up Invoicing with an option to submit a request to SOUNDSTREAK to set the user up with a specific vendor. It will be up to the studio to keep the list of approved producers up to date. SOUNDSTREAK will bill the studios with a breakdown of producers time and project names which will facilitate the studios monitoring usage levels.

In order to accommodate payment by credit card debit card or any other useful payment instrument SOUNDSTREAK will partner with some vendor validation programs such as VERISIGN EMETA or others to increase customer comfort about inputting credit card information. Such entered information may include the following payment or credit card type card number expiration date billing address name and phone number. Such information will be validated prior to charging the payment instrument in any of a variety of well known manners.

When making payments producers may have the option of entering a promotional code that may for example credit the user with a fixed number of connectivity minutes and which may be used over one or more sessions.

After suitable payment means have been authorized and verified according to agreed pricing and in conjunction with any promotional codes the producer will next be asked to enter session information. Sessions will require a Project Name a Session Name an identification of the producer and an identification of the talent. Additionally another user or users can be specified to participate in the session as observers if desired. Observers may participate in a session by use of a computer device connected to the network as with other session participants. Alternatively the observer may connect to a session by land line or cellular telephone. A suitable network address or standard telephone number may be provided for telephonic participants to join a session. A dial in interface or SIP provisioning may be provided on the data network used by SOUNDSTREAK participants to accommodate dial in observation of a session. These and other session set up options will be described in more detail immediately below.

The Project Name may be assigned by the Producer. All Sessions may be grouped under Projects by Project Name in a one to many configuration. Prior projects may be selected from a drop down box. When New Project is selected a small pop up window will appear where the producer can enter a Project name. For data integrity s sake if an entered project name is close to that of a previous project SOUNDSTREAK may prompt the producer regarding the close match to avoid or minimize duplicate or confusingly similar entries. SOUNDSTREAK will allow for entry detailed project information such as length of time geographic region or detailed client information with the Project Name.

Next the producer will select a Session Type. There may be for example three types of Sessions from which to select including auditions unsupervised recordings and supervised recordings each of which will be discussed in turn below 

When the session is an audition the producer will generally wish to associate several talents with a session. When an audition has come in to SOUND STREAK from any of the talent the producer may be notified for example via email. These audition files will remain as part of the Project Name defined during Session Set up

For sessions where no supervision is necessary the producer may associate a talent to such unsupervised session. Upon completion of set up a script will be sent to the designated talent who in turn will make a recording using his or her program of choice and then upload the media to the producer. In some embodiments audio recording software may be provided by SOUNDSTREAK or offered in partnership with another vendor. As with the Auditions feature above upon upload of any recorded sessions from a talent the producer in charge of the session will be notified via email or the like.

For Supervised sessions the producer may define the session and identify talent and then using the SOUNDSTREAK producer component supervise the recording of a session.

Upon completion of any session definitions above an email and or fax of the script will be sent to the identified talent as described later below.

The default producer for any project or session will be the producer currently logged in. However additional or alternate producers may be identified.

As described above the producer will identify a talent for the session. A drop down box will be provided during Session Set up that list all available talent from the SOUNDSTREAK site and or those in a producer s Address Book.

A producer will have the option of specifying other clients for the Session. A list of individuals defined as Clients in the address book will be available via drop down. Fields may be provided for entering other new clients.

Various other session settings may also be provided during Session Set Up. Some examples include an option to deliver scripts by facsimile to a talent an option to electronically generate and submit union member reports or union contracts with AFTRA or SAG an option to automatically submit session information with an agent of the talent an option to automatically submit session with an identified client and an option to load audio or movie files related to the session to or from the SOUND STREAK site. Any party can add an electronic signature to complete a form or document and verify consent to an agreement. SOUNDSTREAK will also act as a SAG AFTRA signatory and act as an intermediary so non signatory companies can record union talent using SOUNDSTREAK to pay the talent. SOUNDSTREAK may also integrate a full service talent payment processing business similar to TALENT PARTNERS INC.

During Session Set Up the producer will be prompted for at least one script. Each script will have a naming box with an example next to it such as Ex. 20 Sec. Spot. Tops Tails Below the naming box may be a cut and paste interface and an up load button. Beneath the cut and paste window may be an option to add another script. This will refresh the page and present another name window and cut and paste window below the first one. There is no limit to how many scripts can be added.

Once entered the last step will be a page with all the session information and the selected billing information presented for final confirmation. The Producer will be presented with a confirmation page showing all the participants the billing information the scripts and their titles. Each of these options will have Edit links next to them to allow for quick and easy correction. At the end of the confirmation page the user will either Exit or Confirm.

The SOUNDSTREAK site may pre authorize the producer s credit card for one hour worth of recording time per session. At the end of the recording session the pre authorization will be released and the credit card will be billed the exact amount Rate A Number of Minutes B . Alternatively Producers may be charged a flat rate for sessions up to a defined duration for example 90 minutes. The credit card charge may appear on the producer s statement as SOUNDSTREAK SessionName.Project.Date for easy reconciliation. If the charge or pre authorization fails the user will be prompted to enter a different card.

Confirmation will also trigger the automatic faxing transmission or other delivery of the script to talent based on the delivery option selected. This will allow sufficient time for talent to review script before SOUNDSTREAK billing starts.

After a Session has been set up it may be commenced according to the producers desired schedule. Recording of a session takes place via a Record interface which unlike the rest of SOUNDSTREAK requires a certain amount of desktop like functionality. Specifically play buttons record buttons timers script windows etc. must be locally interactive and not require a round trip communication from the user s computer to SOUNDSTREAK s server.

 i SOUNDSTREAK Studio. The SOUNDSTREAK Studio will be a virtual environment where producers and talent communicate record takes review scripts transfer files and virtually sign off on documentation.

 ii Version check of the software to confirm it is the latest version available. The user when going to record a session will be prompted to download the latest version if SOUNDSTREAK does not detect the appropriate software. Additionally if product patches updates or later versions have been released since the user s last download he or she will be prompted to download the latest software.

 iii System diagnostic. The integrity of the talent s system is critical to SOUNDSTREAK s performance. SOUNDSTREAK will specify minimum external drive system requirements such as amount of free memory to be available for all talent. SOUNDSTREAK will also recommend specific configurations of memory for optimal performance. Over time however talent memory storage devices may become cluttered and inefficient. Therefore a number of diagnostics should be run on the talent s computer prior to each recording session with results presented to both producer and talent. Messaging and guidance for trouble shooting should be available as well.

Turning now to there is depicted a flowchart of exemplary process for remote voice over music production and management that may be performed over the computer network of in conjunction with the computer architecture depicted in . As used herein a total recording session refers to the plurality of individual takes that typically occur in any audio or video production. In various embodiments the producer and talent may exchange data directly or through the third party computer .

The process commences when the production staff establishes two way communication with the talent over the computer network step as described in the foregoing. Alternatively if a single user is filling all Roles the session commences when communication is established with the server. At least one high quality data format is established for transferring script data visual or audiovisual material recorded takes take sheet data and comment text and time index data used for matching the recorded take to the audiovisual data of the voice over music production for the recording session. Verbal instructions and feedback between the production staff in the talent may be provided in a lower quality data format in order to preserve bandwidth usage since that information is rarely retained and there is typically no need for high fidelity. Such verbal instruction and comments may be heard and spoken by both parties using a headset speakers and or a microphone.

SOUNDSTREAK will run based on the user type or alternatively on the configuration of roles selected for each user and present the associated user interface. An external window will show the status online or not of people in the user s phone book. Once the target person the user is waiting for is online the user can contact the person by clicking on the user id name. Alternatively session participants can be associated with a session in advance or in real time and directed to the appropriate session when logging in or already logged into the system. After the Initiation is done the Talk Back button feature described in detail later below will be turned on at the talent end. If the user has paid for the session or is approved for later billing the Start recording button shall be enabled.

Continuing with the process next at step the script to be read by the talent for the audio video production is uploaded via the recording management software . It should be noted that the script and the corresponding visual or audiovisual presentation may be changed by the production staff or other session participants and uploaded again at any time during the recording session. The script data and accompanying visual or audiovisual presentation may likewise be changed. An exemplary screen display of such uploaded data is provided in and described in detail later below.

When the talent starts working on a project for the first time there is no video or script available on their computer. SOUNDSTREAK will push synchronize the audio visual file and take script definitions from the producer to the talent or to all session participants as appropriate. In some embodiments part or all of the transfer of these materials to participants machines can be done prior to the session. After the delivery is done a copy of the files will be stored in the talent s local disk in local files under a project directory. For later access to the same project no redundant loading will be required unless the video file has been changed or deleted or takes scripts have been modified. In some embodiments the audiovisual material and script files may be deleted from the local disk of some or all participants at specified times either for security reasons or to manage use of storage on the participants computers. The rules for deleting audiovisual and script files can be defined by default or specified by the participant contributing uploading this material. For example when uploading audio visual or script material the participant uploading such material may specify deletion at the end of the session at a specified date after the session or next login after that date or deletion only when triggered manually by the up loader.

Once the audio visual material has been transferred to session participants it can be played for session participants prior to initiating the recording of a take. Optionally scripts can also be displayed in synchronization with playback.

In some embodiments the Talent is free to use the play controller to play view the video for preparation. While the talent plays and views the video the synchronized scripts will be displayed on the Script Viewer.

The process then continues to step where a timer is started for the recording session. The timer serves a variety of purposes including allowing the talent to properly time in his or her recordings in accordance with the script and visual or audiovisual presentation. The timer may also provide time index data for use with editing the record sessions.

The timer may display the total time of the entire recording session and or may display the time for an individual take within the recording session. Start and stop buttons may also be provided to participants to allow the timer to be used as a stopwatch.

When the recording process starts after a producer clicks on the Record button Script Viewer will show the script synchronized with the Video Terminal and before a predefined ahead time for example 0.5 seconds or 1 second the coming script on the Script Viewer shall be highlighted or marked with a clear signal indicator. All session participants will be able to monitor the performance as it is done and in synchronization with any associated audio visual material which will be played locally on their computer.

The recorded sound will be stored at the Talent s computer with each take recorded as a separate clearly labeled file and delivered to session participants for synchronized playback. In some embodiments the take will be saved in two formats a high quality data format suitable for final output and a lower quality data format optimized for rapid transfer to enable local playback by participants as quickly as possible. In some embodiments this transfer can be made even faster by recording each take as multiple individual portions which can be transferred before the take is completed reassembled at the receiving end and compared to the completed low resolution file at the sending end to validate its integrity. Such comparison can be performed using techniques such as checksum or hash sum algorithms. One such checksum algorithm is a longitudinal parity check which breaks the data into words with a fixed number n of bits and then computes the exclusive or of all those words. The result is appended to the message as an extra word. To check the integrity of a message the receiver computes the exclusive or XOR of all its words including the checksum if the result is not a word with n zeros the receiver knows a transmission error occurred. Other possible techniques include use of check digits or parity bits modular sums position dependent checksums and the like. Alternatively or in addition thereto the real time audio data can be captured on the computer of each participant and through the use of synch marks tones visual markers or machine readable markers placed in the recording of the real time audio to facilitate synchronization with comparable synch marks in the audio visual content can be played back in synchronization with the local audio visual data from participants computers.

When these recordings arrive at participants computers SOUNDSTREAK will be able to play back the take in synchronization with any audiovisual material used during the recording of the take and with playback synchronized between all participant computers. This approach of transferring take files for local playback on the computer of each session participant will avoid problems associated with streaming during playback including jitter and dropout changing latencies and differing latencies between users and will ensure that all participants hear and see the same things at the same time. The approach of using lower quality data formats for this playback and or of transferring these files in sections as described above ensure that playback on all participant computers using local playback can be begun as quickly as possible after the take is completed.

Session participants can then review each take discussing it if needed and decide whether the take should be kept and or transferred to Recipients. The producer Engineer or other designated participants are able to enter comments on the Recording Status Panel which can be rendered visible or not visible to talent.

Returning to the process a detailed take sheet is next created that will list the takes a total session time a stopwatch time if used any text comments entered by the production staff or talent and a file transfer status for each take step . This information is displayed within the audio video recording management software and may be printed out for review by either party. Video audio or audiovisual data corresponding to the voice over music production may also be provided to the talent in order for the talent to record takes in real time with the running of the audiovisual data herein read to picture capability .

At step an individual take of the recording session may be completed by the Talent. Participants may listen to audio takes and view video takes as they progress. Other parties an agent of any party a party commissioning the voice over music production editors or the like may also have access to the live session being recorded via additional computers that communicate over the network . Upon completion the individual recorded take may then be transferred to production staff for review and approval. The transfer of the recorded take in high or low resolution data format may begin before the voice over music session is completed. In some embodiments the transfer may begin before the take is completed. The audio video recording management software may show a progress of the transfer as described later below. Takes may also be played back during the session for review by participants prior to transfer of high resolution recordings.

A take of a recorded session that is deemed worth transferring to Recipients is referred to herein as a buy take. After an individual take is recorded the production staff or Engineer may indicate that a take is a buy take using the software .

If at step a buy take is indicated after an individual take is recorded the process continues to step below. If more takes are wanted either because a buy take has not been indicated or because other takes desired the process returns to step above until a buy take is established.

Upon approval of a buy take the buy take may be uploaded to Recipients using the high quality data format step . The buy take may be uploaded before the end of the recording session. In those embodiments in which a third party computer provisions the audio video recording management software to the producer and talent after a completion of the voice over music production a payment based on the timing of the session may be calculated and then charged to the producer for the session based on the session length and a time based rate step after which the process ends.

In various embodiments the buy takes may also be backed up with the storage of the talent computer or the third party computer as part of the process . In other embodiments selected takes may be deleted from the local disk of the Talent as soon as transfer to a server or to Recipients has been confirmed or at a specified later date either for security reasons or to manage use of storage on the Talent s computer. The rules for deleting take files can be defined by default or specified by the participant contributing uploading this material. For example when uploading audio visual or script material the participant uploading such material may specify deletion at the end of the session at a specified date after the session or next login after that date or deletion only when triggered manually by the uploader.

Referring now to there is depicted an exemplary screen display and may be presented to participants by the audio video recording management software . In the case of a standalone application the display may be provided within a separate application window of a graphical user interface. In a case where the network is the Internet the display may be presented within a window of an Internet browser or the like. In some embodiments it is envisioned that each participant will be presented with only those user interface elements corresponding to their designated roles.

The display includes presentation of session identification data an area in which a visual and or audiovisual presentation corresponding to the voice over music production may be presented and run an area in which the text of the voice over music script script data may be presented control buttons for starting and stopping a timer of a take or session as well as a button for initiating a playback of a selected take or session a timer display for displaying a current time of the session or take and an area for displaying take sheet data including 1 the take number of each take in the session 2 a time index of one or more takes including start and stop time based on the timer data 3 text comments that have been entered for each take 4 a field for indicating whether the take is acceptable and 5 or more fields indicating the transfer status of the data file correspondent each take in the session. The control buttons of one session participants computer can in various embodiments likewise control or govern the various playback functions on other session participants computers by transfer of such commands to other participants computer and its SOUNDSTREAK software over the data network. In additional embodiments the control buttons may be provided for local playback functions only of the session participant using such controls.

The display provides Read to Picture capability through the use of for example WINDOWS MEDIA PLAYER for presenting the visual and or audiovisual data within the area that corresponds to the script text displayed in area . This allows the talent to view any accompanying audio video of the voice over music production while making a recording of the accompanying voice over music and further allowing the recorded takes to be indexed thereto. The area may provide access to all WINDOWS MEDIA PLAYER functions such as play pause stop rewind fast forward mute and volume controls.

In order to assist talent and reduce the burdens of separate displays of script and corresponding audiovisual data SOUNDSTREAK may in various embodiments offer a special onscreen presentation method referred to as Voiceover Karaoke. A large video player window will be presented on the talent s computer screen. It will have the textual script of the production superimposed over the moving video in the same screen location. This will allow the talent to read while still keeping view of the video images that correspond to the performance. As with the script display there may be selectable page tabs so the talent can quickly switch to the next superimposed page of text. Alternatively synchronization of text to the audiovisual data can be managed automatically by SOUNDSTREAK as described below.

Additional similar programs may be used and incorporated within SOUNDSTREAK for presenting audio visual data. For example QUICKTIME the media player developed by APPLE CORP. can play a variety of media formats on WINDOWS and MAC OS. QUICKTIME JAVA is the JAVA application programming interface API provided by APPLE to communicate with QUICKTIME for media playing and processing. Network Address Translators NAT may also be used for interconnecting private address realms to a global address realm to create an Internet address architecture within the SOUNDSTREAK environment.

When audio visual material is uploaded during session set up a media playing window will show visual content for both the producer and the announcer. All standard playback options governing video audio or other audiovisual modalities will be available in the media player for the producer or in some embodiments for the Engineer role. The producer s media player controls the talent s media player. For example playing stopping and rewinding on the producer s desktop triggers the same actions on the Talent s desk top. If no audiovisual media was uploaded during set up a producer can locate a local movie file and upload it if desired. The upload process should transfer the audiovisual file to the talent s computer as well.

The talent s interface will be a passive simplified version of the producer s interface. Accordingly the talent interface may include the following functions 

The following is a description of all the elements on the producer s screen which is an enhanced version of the talent interface to accommodate further producer functions 

All related materials for a project will be stored in a project folder that may be of the following exemplary structure 

take and script definition file stores the media time definitions for each take and the associated script content.

pending to be post file only exists if posting recording time failed. This file will be used to do store and forward. For integrity meaning avoid manual manipulations the system may store posted data in a file and recording time information in each take folder in encrypted format for consistency checks.

working log file stores all relevant information for the recording process. This file may help resolving disagreement with time consumption or system trouble shooting.

working take file stores the current recording audio or video file in appropriate format such as WAV . Once the recording is done and acceptable the file will be renamed to the final audio video file.

unacceptable recorded file for comparisons. The maximum number and size can be defined for constraints.

In various embodiments SOUNDSTREAK may generate two general types of reports internal and external. Internal reports are generally provided for trouble shooting usage patterns customer analysis and feature de bugging. External reports are those to be generated for users and their customers for purposes of auditing billing business management and the like. At a high level there are three steps to producing reports generating the information storing the information and presenting the information. It is up to the source code to generate the information. Retrieval and presentation can be done through data warehousing web generated reports automatic background programs and any of a variety of manners readily known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In various embodiments SOUNDSTREAK shall generate error messaging when any steps in the SOUNDSTREAK process fail. The error messaging should serve two functions.

First error messaging should allow the user regardless of technical competence to serve as a first line of defense to address simple errors. This will lower technical support costs and increase customer satisfaction. Pop up messages may be provided for simple errors with plain language explanation of errors and usual manners of correcting the same. Such error messaging may include 

Secondly when the error is of a complexity that cannot be resolved by a user the messaging must be specific enough to allow technical support to address and correct the issue quickly. Failure to load site crashes and the like should be logged in the form of internal reports for technical support personnel. In addition tracking when users abandon the registration and sound recording processes is critical for product management and increasing the level of service provided. Since SOUNDSTREAK s revenue is tied to usage rather than just an initial purchase refinement of the user experience will directly correlate to increased revenue.

In addition to the internal reporting described above SOUNDSTREAK may in various embodiments generate external reports that may be of the following types 

 i Session summary. The users will be presented with a summary page of the Session after confirmation. The page will be the landing page for all future references to the Session. Information in the Session Summary is as follows and may include hyperlinks to related information where indicated date session length project name hyper linked to Project Summary page session name producer name and contact info hyper linked to Address Book talent name and contact information hyper linked to Address Book client name and contact information hyper linked to Address Book script s with titles transferred takes with hyperlinks to detailed take information when applicable forms hyperlinked to documents such as union notifications billing invoices and the like . All of this information should be generated in such a way that when a data warehousing system or the like is implemented appropriate fields will be populated in a database having suitable formats and data types.

 ii Project Summary. To the user SOUNDSTREAK operates around the Session. But over time users may wish to become project centric with individual sessions aggregated under projects. This mimics the actual work experience of producers who work on a project for a client. Even if the event is a short term event like a movie promotion or a sporting event the media necessary to support the event will exceed what is captured in a single session. If the producer references an existing project for a new session the project identification must remain the same from old session to new session.

 iii Client Summary. Producers may use SOUNDSTREAK to manage their clients studios advertising agencies and the like as well as talent. Accordingly SOUND STREAK may provide reports that summarize activity on a client by client basis.

 iv User Summary. Since a producer often has multiple clients he or she will need to see activity across all users with which a producer has interacted.

Since SOUNDSTREAK will be both a public facing internet presence and an ASP web application interfaces and functionality will change for users who are new or otherwise unregistered. Unregistered visitors will have access to the normal SOUNDSTREAK site which may provide such users with a company overview executive profiles and a description of SOUNDSTREAK services. They will also have access to limited functionality designed to entice registration and demonstrate usefulness while protecting sensitive information or that designated for registered users or allowed contacts only.

Underlying all the functionality described above data security is also an important consideration since SOUNDSTREAK utilizes sensitive information such as credit card and personal contact information. In addition to developing security appropriate for SOUNDSTREAK transactions a monitoring and reporting system should be in place to protect against attempted security breaches. All security in the SOUNDSTREAK environment should conform to best computer and network security practices now practiced and as developed in the future. SOUNDSTREAK will implement a site wide level of security appropriate for credit card storage personal data storage and asset audio file integrity protection. SOUNDSTREAK will automatically log out users if they are idle for longer than a set amount of time for example ten minutes . Users will have the option of having their local computers remember log in names.

In order to use SOUNDSTREAK services producers will have to be approved prior to their first session for purposes of invoicing them for services used. If any user enters a request for services under the name of a SOUND STREAK client for which he or she is not approved an email window with a pre populated request will pop up with a request for information from the user. The user will submit the requested information which SOUNDSTREAK will forward on to the appropriate client s IT contact. SOUNDSTREAK will follow up with the client to speed resolution. Upon receiving confirmation SOUNDSTREAK will notify the user that he or she is approved. SOUNDSTREAK will also institute a policy whereby the client is expected to provide notification when a user is no longer authorized to bill them. SOUNDSTREAK will invoice the client monthly with a breakdown of users billing times and projects. It is assumed that the client s accounting system will catch any users that the client had failed to remove from the authorized list.

Alternatively pay as you go pricing may be implemented. For example users may be allowed to buy tokens representing minutes or sessions which in association with a password or other credential allow them to spend the credits they have purchased.

Finally with respect to security there will be inherent peer to peer security risks which can be addressed in known manners corresponding to the method of file transfer and synchronized application control that SOUNDSTREAK implements.

While in the foregoing SOUNDSTREAK functionality has been described from the perspective of its various contemplated users the remaining description is dedicated to the implementation of a SOUNDSTREAK server such as the server described previously with respect to .

Implementation of a SOUNDSTREAK server may in various embodiments include the following software JAVA Virtual Machine VM JAVA MEDIA FRAMEWORK WINDOWS PERFORMANCE PACK .NET by MICORSOFT reference implementation software by SUN and IBM for WINDOWS OS and QUICKTIME with QUICK TIME JAVA installed. Other miscellaneous supports such as FTP handling and extensible mark up language XML parsing are available according to designer choice.

Implementation of the SOUNDSTREAK server involves many challenges such as real time media processing streaming and VoiP and the present specification is intended to provide the best presently available solutions to cope with related issues. Some of the solution choices may be changed for system enhancement during the implementation stage or as software and hardware functionality advances in the future.

The functional goal is to provide producers and talent whose systems meet these requirements with a convenient solution to work at distributed locations while still maintaining high recording quality and productivity. To achieve this goal the recorded audio shall be stored in high quality digital formats. However in order to minimize the latency of voice communications any communications that are not a recorded part of a session may be transmitted in lower quality real time formats. As previously mentioned a third lower quality data format may be used to allow rapid transfer of recorded takes from Talent to other session participants for local playback on these participants computers.

In order to implement SOUNDSTREAK on as many OS types as possible JAVA may be chosen as the development language although other implementations such as .NET are readily contemplated. Within the JAVA environment however JAVA SWING presently provides the richest set of JAVA graphical user interface GUI solutions which may be used to layout the presentation and handle user interactions.

JMF defines a generic and flexible platform audio and video processing and streaming support especially for its DataSource and Processor building blocks as well as the plug in capability. However the Reference Implementations provided by SUN MICROSYSTEMS and IBM are weak with respect to supporting video formats in the MAC OS environments.

APPLE QUICKTIME seems to complement the weakness but it cannot be the total solution for this issue because it does not have RTP streaming functions for WINDOWS and its audio capturing function seems to suffer the possibility of causing disk full problems on WINDOWS systems in some circumstances.

One solution for this issue is to use QUICKTIME to play video and audio while utilizing JMF to handle streaming and remaining miscellaneous processes. The two components will be bridged together by developing a JMF DataSource implemented by QUICKTIME JAVA Objects such as Movie and DataRef. 

The complexity of supporting various media formats and multiple OS environments cannot be entirely resolved by a single static solution. Therefore a dynamic Implementation Factory design will be used to cope with this issue. For example for Video Processing 

For this implementation Implementation Factory will always return QTVideoTermal which implements the VideoTerminal Interface by MOVIEPLAYER and related classes in QUICKTIME JAVA. The VideoTerminal is an Interface defined with required capabilities such as play stop changePlayRate . . . addMediaChangeListener . . . notifyMediaChanges Rate Time . . . .

The complete system may use the VideoTerminal type instead of QTVideoTerminal Type or any other implementation type. The Implementation Factory will make decision based on OS or even Video Format to return the right VideoTerminal Implementation. This will dramatically increase the system flexibility and avoid the overhaul of the prototype before production use. The flexibility will enable FLASH VIDEO TERMINAL or REAL VIDEO TERMINAL which may be better in some situations. They can be implemented independently and their associated logics can be added in the Implementation Factory without impacting the whole system.

The same solution will be used in other media processing streaming and dynamic communication mechanisms such as 

For such implementations Implementation Factory will always return the JMF SoundCapturer and JMF SteamSender. In some implementations .NET components may also be used.

Media synchronization methods for media involve synchronizing video audio and associated scripts for different scenarios. In Media Synchronization will be the first choice but for some cases it may be not be suitable and therefore External Synchronization which requires additional programming efforts shall be used instead when appropriate.

For In Media Synchronization different types of media such as video and audio either exist on different tracks of the same file or can be played as an external source like another in media track. In this case the media player will do the synchronization itself based on the media time of each track. A suitable implementation case here would be when the sound has been recorded for a take and its audio file has been delivered to the producer for review. The audio file can then be defined as an external track for the corresponding video. If an external audio track can not be defined for some reason the video and audio can be merged or multiplexed into another file.

For External Synchronization this refers to launching multiple threads each of which controls the playing of a media type. The starting time for all media types shall be strictly synchronized and each thread will play independently based on the associated media types. A primary active media type thread shall be defined in each scenario and control or notify other threads of time jump or play rate changes. For example users may use the play controller to change the position or rate of video playing. A suitable implementation case is displaying scripts for recording. In this case the Video Terminal will assume the primary thread and notify the Script Viewer or Voiceover Karaoke system of time or play rate changes.

Even though QUICKTIME supports in media synchronizations for video audio and text the implementation is limited to APPLE movie file formats. Therefore external synchronization is generally a more suitable mechanism for script displaying.

Another suitable implementation would be playing video in real time at the producer s computer while talent is doing recording. In this case the streamed audio handler will assume the primary thread while the Video Terminal shall assume the secondary passive thread. This is designed to handle cases like jitter or communication discontinuation either temporary or permanent. QUICKTIME supports playing tracks from a remote source and the above case might be implemented by In Media Synchronization.

 Video Player and Audio Player functions shall implement a transparent media resource swing which will allow other components to use them whether the resources are stored at the local disk or are streaming from remote locations. For example when talent is recording the audio data may be streamed over the network. After the recording is done the high quality audio data can then be transmitted to the producer s computer. In either case the components shall act indifferently for this either playing remote data or the local audio file except the output audio quality will be better for the latter case.

For video when talent first previews the video the video is streaming over the network. After the process is done the video will exist as a file on the talent s computer. In either case the video playing shall be the same except that the former case may show jittering when the network condition is not good.

In addition to media handling various modules are provided to handle authentication communication user interface UI and support functions. An SIP Authentication Coordination module may use hyper text transfer protocol HTTP authentication to perform login validations which is readily accommodated by SIP. HTTP may be replaced with secured HTTP HTTPS for encryption. SIP is preferable to other protocols such as H.323 because of SIP s simplicity and plan text formats which are typically easier for implementation and problem tracing. The SIP Client here will only do initial coordination for the recording instead of handling complex phone services. An SIP Proxy Server operating in conjunction with the SOUNDSTREAK site may be provided to handle SIP INVITEs from participants look up user functions updates and query location information.

Another possible implementation of VoiP connectivity may use a licensed third party softphone module such as X PRO or IBEAM from XTEN Inc. or a similar product that can be integrated into SOUNDSTREAK. A third approach to VoiP functionality would involve bundling a full service VoiP solution such as VONAGE or NET2PHONE with the SOUNDSTREAK system and designing an interface by which SOUNDSTREAK can control the provider s software.

A Communication Handling module separates Sender and Receiver types which may be additionally classified as either streaming or non streaming. The former refers to RTP protocol handling. The Sender performs active jobs such as initiating connections or pushing data to the Receiver. The Receiver shall passively listen to a port for delivery or requests. For self containing purposes a Receiver shall automatically start listening when it s created without other method calls. It is also recommended that senders and receivers request through or register with CommunicationHandler for port and protocol information. The Senders and Receivers also periodically notify the CommunicationHandler of handshaking status. Streaming Sender and Receiver communications shall have a flag to denote whether or not it requires guaranteed delivery i.e. delivered by TCP or UDP. 

A User Interface UI Components module manages display presentations and event handlings. All components shall be prepared for lengthy blocking while calling methods in other modules especially for network related requests. Predefined timeout values shall be used to ensure that no screen freezing will last more than the timeout. UI components shall not freeze other components while waiting for processing results. For some cases a watch thread or an independent process thread may be used.

A Supporting Module defines support classes such as EnvironmentTeller and ImplementationFactory which shall return objects with predefined implementation classes or some static information. Other supporting classes include ResourceOrganizer and RecordingStatusReporter. The ResourceOrganizer shall understand the project folder structure and help other components to locate or save resources such as recorded audio files. It may implement a custom File Chooser to help producers and talent review the material. RecordingStatusReport will report time consumption to the producer and SOUNDSTREAK. XML may be used for messages for posting but other suitable formats may also be used.

All the JAVA code will be packaged under the main package SOUNDSTREAK. All supporting files shall be generating according to a naming convention referencing the file type so as to avoid file name conflicts. Various JAVA packages will be provided including respective classes and interfaces which may in turn be grouped into sub packages. Events may be those defined in JMF and may include custom events as a matter of design choice.

The sound for recording may be recorded and saved as .WAV files with a sample rate of at least 48 kHz and bit depth 16 as with high definition television standards . If the capturing hardware does not support 48 kHz the sample rate will be degraded by the following order until a supported rate is found 44.1 32 22.254 22.05 16 11.127 11.025 and 8 kHz.

Users shall be allowed to select a different preferred sample rate even it s not the best one. If the capturing can t support 44.1 kHz or higher a warning message shall be presented to users for audio quality problems and will recommend that users upgrade their capturing hardware. In order for fast delivery and in order to minimize the latency for audio transmission 8 bit mono with an 8 kHz sample rate will be used for either talk back or real time recording transmission so as to provide reliable yet lower quality delivery.

There are many kinds of video formats and codecs available each of which may have some variations. The chosen video playing and streaming solutions QUICKTIME and JMF respectively are capable of handling many popular video formats. The following formats and codecs can also be supported for video AVI Audio Video Interleave by MICROSOFT MOV QUICK TIME Movie File Extension by APPLE MPEG all versions of this standard by the Motion Picture Experts Group CINEPACK and SORENSON VIDEO 3 .

The SOUNDSTREAK site and producer talent components are tasked with handling messaging between various users. SIP invitations and responses are used to initiate a meeting session and exchange locations ports and any other recording related information between users and may be of the format shown in . Take script definition messages which may be of the format shown in can be delivered from producers to talent in order to define synchronize the take definition and script contents. Recording time posting messages may be delivered from talent computers to SOUNDSTREAK Site for verification and payment purposes and may be of the exemplary format shown in .

SOUNDSTREAK services may be provided to producers and talent as a standalone application or as a third party service on the Internet. In the latter case access to SOUNDSTREAK functions may be charged to either party on a minutes used basis as telephone companies often do where the minutes used may be determined from the timing functions described above. Additionally a monthly or other interval subscription of the production staff talent or both may be required in order to gain access to the online service. Payments for access may be accomplished using any of variety of known on line transaction processes. Payments due between the production staff and the talent may also be determined from the timing functions described above as will be readily appreciated from a review of the disclosure provided above.

SOUNDSTREAK can be used beneficially in the radio and television industries for production of commercials advertisements Public Service Announcements and entertainment programs in the film industry for movie production and dubbing for corporate sales and training in the production of training seminars and the like by Internet service providers for the production of Web based advertisements as well as software games makers for producing video games run to be run on personal computers or other gaming platforms. Other uses of SOUNDSTREAK will be readily appreciated from a review of the disclosure provided above.

While the descriptions above have been provided with respect to a JAVA based implementation it is readily contemplated that other development languages and environments may readily be adapted for implementation of SOUNDSTREAK functions such as MICROSOFT s .NET.

While the low quality data format referenced above is described as an audio channel other forms of low quality communication are easily accommodated by SOUNDSTREAK s architecture and workflows. For example the ability to converse by means of text chat is easily added to SOUNDSTREAK. Similarly video chat technology is easily incorporated into the application allowing users to see as well as hear each other. As with the audio only communication described above these alternate forms of communication can be implemented so as to ensure they are not included in the high quality format.

Similarly the SOUNDSTREAK architecture can easily accommodate the capture of high quality video in place of or in addition to high quality audio. In one such embodiment talent performances can be captured using a high definition HD webcam or mobile device smartphone portable computer and the like and transmitted to participants in a low quality data format to facilitate real time monitoring and feedback. Using methods described above participants can then designate a take or portion of a take for transfer to a specified recipient in high quality data format.

In one such embodiment an HD webcam is used to conduct a videoconference. The video signal in each direction is simultaneously transferred as a low quality signal that allows real time monitoring or communication and stored as high quality data format locally at the location of the camera . During or after the recording the high quality format data for one or both participants is transferred asynchronously. In another embodiment one user can monitor low quality format video from a remote location in real time. Some or all footage can be selected and queued for transfer while the recording is in process or at a later time. Optionally edits can be applied in real time to the low quality recording as a non destructive edit list and later applied to the high quality recording when it has been transferred.

In some embodiments SOUNDSTREAK supports separate and simultaneous recording of two or more talent participants. The resulting high quality formats files can then be delivered to a designated recipient individually or after being combined. A sync method such as that described herein can be used to align both high quality and low quality data files captured during two or more simultaneous performances. Such embodiments are useful for recording conversations between two or more participants for instance a news interview where the interviewer and their subject are in different locations. It can also be used to allow actors for instance those voicing animation to perform together from remote locations without compromising the experience of performing collaboratively.

In multiple talent embodiments it is desirable to employ a sync method in the audio and video files that are captured so that low quality and high quality format files containing the same performance can be aligned with each other and with backing assets used during the take. Such sync methods may include one or more of time coding distance from a head of file mark a time stamp using Network Time Protocol NTP a delay adjusted signal sent a server jam techniques or comparable processes as are known and used in the art. See e.g. AVID PROTOOLS software or U.S. Patent Appl. Ser. No. 2003 0164084 to Redmann et al.

A sync method can also be used to compile non destructive edit lists that allow users to apply edits or comments to low quality format files and subsequently transfer these to high quality format files of the same performance. Alternatively when two or more performances have been captured simultaneously edits made on one performer s take can be applied to the corresponding take of another performer. Such embodiments allow users to make edits to a low quality file before the high quality file has been transferred or to edit two or more simultaneous performances when only one performer s takes are available.

Once a sync method is thus applied to take files it can be used to selectively transfer portions of a recording. For instance one or more participants can do long takes captured as an uninterrupted recording lasting for example an hour. One of the recipients of the low quality data can select those portions of the take that are needed and prioritize these segments for immediate transfer leaving the remaining segments to be transferred later or optionally not at all. In some embodiments this is accomplished by saving portions of the continued take as shorter self contained audio files that can be transferred individually and reassembled or stored separately on participant computers. This approach can be used to designate portions of long takes for transfer in high quality format while the take is still in progress.

Some anticipated use cases for SOUNDSTREAK require an observer role. This configuration is useful when it is desirable to add a session participant who is neither Talent nor Production but who wishes to participate in the session passively and or communicate with session participants by means of the low quality data format connection. Optionally such observers can also see and hear both backing assets and recorded take files in the same format as both Talent and Production. Such participants might include a director in a different location than production a client for example the product manager for whom a television commercial is being produced and so on.

In the case of an observer session the observer will have access to client software that works substantially like that of the Talent role but without recording capabilities enabled. Thus the observer would be able to see and hear exactly what other session participants would backing assets count ins and playback at appropriate resolution. Optionally observers might have access to the voice patch or low quality format communication.

In another embodiment of an observer session the observer may monitor the session using only audio. This can be accomplished by providing the observer access to the low quality data format via PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network an audio chat session on the Internet or by means of an audio only version of the SOUNDSTREAK software.

In further embodiments SOUNDSTREAK can be used by production managers to direct participants other than a talent or other performer. For example it is readily contemplated that a live remote video production may be managed in place of a recording session at a fixed designated location using SOUNDSTREAK functionality as described herein above. For instance SOUNDSTREAK may be used by news directors to manage remotely located cameramen who are collecting live audio video feeds from one or more disparate locations. In these and other embodiments herein SOUNDSTREAK may be run on mobile devices such as smartphones portable computers and the like having suitable hardware capabilities which communicate over one or more of cellular telephone networks wi fi networks satellite communications networks and any other wireless technology.

Note that all SOUNDSTREAK functionalities described above with respect to audio namely 1 combining low quality data format for speed of transfer and monitoring with high quality capture and asynchronous transfer of recordings for best possible quality 2 applying edits from one version of a recording to a second version of the same recording in another format and 3 automatically opening files into an editor as they are transferred may be applied equally to animated productions video productions and audio visual productions. In one such embodiment a HD webcam is used to conduct a videoconference e.g. of the type employed by SKYPE GOTOMEETING FACETIME or the like . The video signal in each direction is simultaneously transferred as a low quality signal that allows real time monitoring or communication and recorded as high quality data format locally at the location of the camera . During or after the recording the high quality format data for one or both participants can be transferred asynchronously. In another embodiment one user can monitor video from a remote location in real time using a streamed low quality version. Some or all footage can be selected and queued for transfer while the recording is in process or at a later time. Optionally edits can be applied in real time to the low quality recording and later applied to the high quality recording when it has been transferred.

Although the best methodologies have been particularly described in the foregoing disclosure it is to be understood that such descriptions have been provided for purposes of illustration only and that other variations both in form and in detail can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope thereof which is defined first and foremost by the appended claims.

