---

title: System and method for verifying user supplied items asserted about the user
abstract: A system and method validates user supplied photographs and/or characteristics using a video, audio or series of images of the user responding to instructions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09391974&OS=09391974&RS=09391974
owner: Zoosk, Inc.
number: 09391974
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150228
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 946 425 entitled Method and Apparatus for Verifying User Supplied Items Asserted About the User filed by Alex Mehr Shayan Zadeh Jared R. Crane and Joshua Douglas Royse on Feb. 28 2014 having the same assignee as the present application and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is related to computer software and more specifically to computer software for securities analysis and trading.

Some web sites allow a user to supply items asserted to describe that user. This arrangement may be suboptimal. What is needed is a system and method that can allow items supplied by a user to be verified.

A system and method allows a user of a website to supply information about that user such as descriptions of characteristics the user is asserted to possess and or one or more photographs of that user that are asserted to represent the user s current appearance. Any such items may be displayed to that user or to other users with a symbol indicating whether they have been verified within a certain period of time. The user or a different user may request that such items not displaying such verification symbol be verified. If a different user requests the verification the user who supplied the characteristics or photographs is alerted and requested to participate.

If the user agrees or if the user was the user who requested verification the user is instructed to pose or perform other actions in front of a camera that is part of or coupled to the user s device while the device records a video audio or series of images of the user who is following the instructions. The user can see the video or series of images and or listen to the audio and approve or retry and if the user approves the video audio or series of images is uploaded to a server. A moderator views the video audio or series of images and the characteristic and or photograph being verified and indicates whether the user in the video audio or series of images or a series of images generated from the video appears to possess the one or more characteristics or has the appearance of the user in the one or more photographs. The video or images may be two or three dimensional.

The moderator may be human computer or a combination of human and computer for example a computer may compare the images from the video and the photographs and suggest whether each photograph and or characteristic should be verified with a human approving or denying the suggestion. Human users may be employees of a web site that received the photographs and or characteristics a user who has requested verification of a different user s photographs a mechanical turk participant or other person.

The user whose photographs or characteristics were being verified is informed of the results of the verification and the user who requested verification if different from the user whose photographs and or characteristics were being verified is notified of a positive verification. When users subsequently view the photographs and or characteristics a symbol indicating verification of the photograph and or characteristic is displayed near such item if the verification was successful and not older than a threshold amount of time.

In one embodiment the characteristics that may be verified are those that are visible in the photograph such as body style height presence of hair and weight though they may not be visible in a verifiable manner.

The present invention may be implemented as computer software optionally in non transitory form running on a conventional computer system including one or more hardware processors. Referring now to a conventional computer system for practicing the present invention is shown. Processor retrieves and executes software instructions stored in storage such as memory which may be Random Access Memory RAM and may control other components to perform the present invention. Storage may be used to store program instructions or data or both. Storage such as a computer disk drive or other nonvolatile storage may provide storage of data or program instructions. In one embodiment storage provides longer term storage of instructions and data with storage providing storage for data or instructions that may only be required for a shorter time than that of storage .

All storage elements described herein may include conventional memory and or disk storage and may include a conventional database. The only nonce word to be used herein is the word means all elements of system claims not using means for are to be interpreted as structural. All system elements may include a conventional hardware computer processor and may include at least one input at least one output and at least one input output

Input device such as a computer keyboard or mouse or both allows user input to the system . Output such as a display or printer allows the system to provide information such as instructions data or other information to the user of the system . Storage input device such as a conventional floppy disk drive or CD ROM drive accepts via input computer program products such as a conventional floppy disk or CD ROM or other nonvolatile storage media that may be used to transport computer instructions or data to the system . Computer program product has encoded thereon computer readable program code devices such as magnetic charges in the case of a floppy disk or optical encodings in the case of a CD ROM which are encoded as program instructions data or both to configure the computer system to operate as described below.

In one embodiment each computer system is a conventional SUN MICROSYSTEMS T SERIES SERVER running the SOLARIS operating system commercially available from ORACLE CORPORATION of Redwood Shores Calif. a PENTIUM compatible personal computer system such as are available from DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION of Round Rock Tex. running a version of the WINDOWS operating system such as XP VISTA or 7 commercially available from MICROSOFT Corporation of Redmond Wash. or a Macintosh computer system running the MACOS or OPENSTEP operating system commercially available from APPLE INCORPORATED of Cupertino Calif. and the FIREFOX browser commercially available from MOZILLA FOUNDATION of Mountain View Calif. or INTERNET EXPLORER browser commercially available from MICROSOFT above although other systems may be used. Each computer system may be a SAMSUNG GALAXY NEXUS III commercially available from SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS GLOBAL of Seoul Korea running the ANDROID operating system commercially available from GOOGLE INC. of Mountain View Calif. Various computer systems may be employed with the various computer systems communicating with one another via the Internet a conventional cellular telephone network an Ethernet network or all of these.

Referring now to a method of verifying photographs is shown according to one embodiment of the present invention. One or more photographs and characteristics of a user supplying the photographs and at least in some cases in the photographs is received from a user of a website which performs the features described herein. In one embodiment characteristics of the user supplying the photographs may include demographic information such as height weight and sex explanations of activities in which the user has or is willing to participate preferences including sexual preferences and other information about that user. The photographs and characteristics may be changed at any time as indicated by the dashed line in the Figure. Any number of different photographs and different characteristics may be received from any number of different users and the photographs and characteristics received from one user may be different from those received from another user. Each of several photographs received from one user may be different from the other photographs supplied by that user though a user may only supply one photograph.

A request to display one or more photographs and characteristics of one user is received from another user . The request may be received from a user who has performed a conventional search of the users characteristics or by receiving a user identifier of a user such as from a link to that user identifier supplied via a match made by a computer system that matches characteristics of the users in an attempt to find compatible users or via a received message from the user. Any user may perform any number of the same or different searches or receive any number of different messages from the same or different users.

A first photograph or characteristic of the user corresponding to the request is selected . In one embodiment as described herein and in more detail below each photograph and or one or more characteristics supplied by the user may or may not be associated with a verification indication which may include a date such as the date the verification was performed. A check may be performed to determine if the selected photograph or characteristic is associated with an indication that it was verified and that the verification date is not older than a threshold amount of time from the current date i.e. expired. If the selected photograph or characteristic has a verification indication indicating that it has been verified and the verification indication is not expired the photograph or characteristic is provided for display to the user from which the request was received in step with a symbol indicating that the photograph or characteristic has been verified. The method continues at step . If the selected photograph or characteristic was not verified or the verification indication has expired the photograph or characteristic is displayed without a verification symbol but is displayed with a user interface control that allows the user that requested the photograph or characteristic to request the verification of the photograph or characteristic.

In one embodiment only some but not all characteristics can be verified and so only those characteristics that can be verified are displayed with the user interface control that allows their verification. Such characteristics may include height weight body style the presence of hair and age.

Each time the photograph or characteristic is provided for display the verification indication of the photograph or characteristic is used as described herein and may change at different times causing the verification symbol to be displayed at one time and not displayed at a different time.

In one embodiment there are limits associated with requesting verification of photographs or characteristics by a user. Such limits may include a limit on the number of users whose photographs or characteristics may be requested for verification as described herein by any single user optionally within a certain period of time. For example a user may make no more than one such request or one such request per month or per quarter. In such embodiment the verification request user interface control will not be displayed if the user has reached the limit on the number of verification requests although in such case the photograph or characteristic will be displayed though without the verification symbol if the other criteria are not met. In one embodiment the verification request user interface control will not be displayed with a photograph or characteristic that has been previously verified within a certain period of time i.e. is verified and the verification is not expired as described above.

If there are more photographs or characteristics the next photograph of the user whose photographs and characteristics were requested is selected and the method continues at step using the newly selected photograph or characteristic. If there are no more photographs or characteristics the method continues at step and or step .

At step the user viewing the photographs or characteristics being displayed may request verification of any photographs that has not been verified or that has been verified but whose verification has expired and such request is received . In one embodiment the request may be received in response to the user selecting one or more of the user interface controls described above respect step . The user requesting verification may be a user other than the user whose photographs or characteristics are being verified and in another embodiment the user whose photographs or characteristics are being verified may request verification either instead of or in addition to such other users. In such embodiment if the user requests verification of one or more of his or her own photographs or characteristics step follows step as indicated by the dashed line in the Figure.

In one embodiment users whose photographs or characteristics are verified or users who are verified in response to a request for verification made by the user whose photographs or characteristics are ultimately verified may be shown earlier in search results than users who are not so verified with users who request their own photographs and or characteristics to be verified having the highest increase in position in search results when another user searches based on characteristic matching and the like users whose photographs or characteristics are verified in response to another user s request having the next highest increase in position in search results and users not verified having no increase in position due to verification. In one embodiment a user with two or more photographs or characteristics verified will receive a higher increase in position than a user with only one photograph or characteristic verified. In one embodiment a user with a larger proportion of photographs and or characteristics verified will receive a higher increase in position than a user with a lower proportion of photographs and or characteristics verified. All such increases in position in this paragraph refer to increase in positions of search results of the user with respect to other users whose information is shown in response to a search request with the criteria for appearing in the search made at least in part from characteristics supplied by the users who show up in the results. A user who is contacted by another user who found the user in a search in which the user s position was increased based on the user s photographs having been verified as described herein could view the other user s profile and request verification of one or more photographs and or characteristics of the other user.

Users whose photographs and or characteristics are verified as described herein may be matched with other users more frequently or with other users who are more popular as measured by actions many other users take with respect to such other user such as clicking on their profile when it shows up in a list sending messages to such other user or replying to messages sent by such other user or sending messages with certain content such as a positive response to a date request than would have occurred if one or more of the user s photographs and or characteristics were not verified. Having more or a higher percentage of photographs and or characteristics of the user that are verified may increase the number of matches or the popularity of the other users with which the matches occur and verifications requested by the user who supplied the photograph may have an increased effect in this regard than verifications requested by other users. A user matched in this fashion could receive a link to another user with whom the user is matched based on the user having verified photographs and or characteristics click on the link and request verification of the other user s photographs and or characteristics as described herein.

In one embodiment a listing of users who match a search request is displayed with a subset of photographs and or characteristics of each user who corresponds to the search request. The requesting user can then click on a link corresponding to any one user and a more complete set of photographs and characteristics will then be displayed. In one embodiment even if the photographs or characteristics displayed at the first listing are not verified a verification symbol may be displayed if the user has at least one photograph or characteristic verified even if it not displayed at that point.

In response to the receipt of the request by a user who has not exceeded any limits on such requests the user who supplied the photographs or characteristics for which the request for verification was made is requested to verify the photos and or characteristics . The user may approve the request or ignore the request. If the user ignores the request in one embodiment the branch of the method will wait for the request to be accepted .

When the user accepts the request a camera and or microphone on the user device from which the request was accepted is enabled and the user is provided with instructions to follow while the camera is recording a video audio file or series of images of the user following such instructions . As used herein a series of images may include a video or other similar series of images. The instructions may include pointing the camera at a certain portion of the user s body turning the user s body or a portion of it in a certain direction such as facing the camera or performing a pose or a set of actions. As the user follows the instructions the camera records the video or series of images and or microphone records audio of the user following instructions. The instructions may include those that can be used to verify the one or more characteristics for which verification was requested for example asking the user to stand in a doorway and show the entire doorway when a verification of a user s height characteristic is requested or to rub the top of his head vigorously when a verification of a user s hair is requested or asking a user to repeat an English phrase in Spanish if verification of multiple languages is requested. The instructions may include those which make it easy to verify the person in the video is the same person in the photographs for example by displaying a photograph to the user and asking the user to appear in the video in the same position and distance relative to the camera as the user is in the photograph and optionally repeating this process for each photograph being verified.

In one embodiment the user may select any of the photographs and indicate that the user is not in the photograph or point to one of several people in the photograph to indicate which person in the photograph is the user. If the user indicates that the user is not in the photograph the photograph is not verified in one embodiment. The indication that the user is not in the photograph or the location of the user among other people in the photograph may be stored associated with the photograph such information may be displayed with subsequent display of the photograph and any location information may be used to verify the photograph as described below.

In one embodiment the video may instead be substituted with any series of multiple images such as 3D images. The video may be a 3D video.

After the instructions are complete the video audio and or images of the user following the instructions is displayed to the user as part of step and the user may perform one of two actions accept the video or request to retry. If the user requests to retry the method continues at step . In one embodiment if the user requests to retry the instructions provided in a subsequent trial will not be or may not be exactly the same as the instructions provided in any prior try of step .

If the user approves the video audio or series of images the video including audio or separate audio or series of images is uploaded from the user device to a different one or more computer system on which the video or a series of images from the video may be viewed or processed by a moderator and the video or a series of images from the video are displayed to the moderator with the photographs of the user . In one embodiment all photographs received from the user are displayed to or processed by the moderator with the video audio or series of images and in another embodiment only photographs not previously verified and those whose verifications have expired are displayed to or processed by the moderator with the video audio or series of images and in another embodiment only the photograph selected by the user are displayed to or processed by the moderator with the video. In one embodiment the uploaded video is converted into a series of images at step . In one embodiment the display of the video audio or series of images and the one or more photographs or characteristics is made additionally with a user interface control that allows the moderator to accept or decline to verify that the person in the one or more photographs and the person in the video appear to be the same person or the person in the video has the characteristics being verified . The moderator uses one or the other control to indicate that the one or more photographs are verified or not verified in such indication is received . In one embodiment verification of photographs is made if the user follows the instructions in the video and appears to look like a person in the photos and verification of characteristics is made if the user appears to have one or more of the characteristics supplied by that user e.g. an athletic body style or correctly speaks a language indicated as spoken by that user .

In one embodiment conventional image or speech recognition techniques may be used to identify via a computer whether the user in the video audio or series of images appears to have followed the instructions and so the moderator may be at least in part a computer system. In one embodiment conventional facial recognition techniques may be used to identify via a computer whether the user in the video or series of images matches a user in the photographs. The computer performing these recognition techniques may based upon their outcome provide a suggestion to the moderator as to whether or not to verify the photos or either a verification or no verification suggestion of the computer may be used as if it were the human moderator s determination with only the other determination being routed to a human moderator for verification. In one embodiment only a computer is used as the moderator with humans occasionally checking the moderator s decisions.

In one embodiment conventional image or speech recognition techniques may be used to identify or the moderator may also verify the user subject to whether the user in the video appears to have characteristics that match some of the characteristics the user has specified for example determining if the user has hair or has a body style identified in the characteristics.

In one embodiment conventional image recognition techniques may be used to identify the user s height for example when the user follows instructions to stand in a doorway or hold a basketball. The size of a standard doorway or basketball may be identified and the image of it recognized in the video or series of images and used to identify the height of the user by proportion.

A human moderator may be supplied via mechanical turk which is an online marketplace for short term work or from other users who supply photos and or characteristics as described above. Other users may be motivated to perform the tasks of a moderator because they are given credits on the web site on which the verification requests are received. Credits may be used to obtain other features of the web site or may be required to make a verification request or to have it carried out. In such embodiment a user may be required to have acted as a moderator for at least three user s images before that user s verification request is accepted or carried out.

One or more human moderators may always be supplied if the characteristic being verified requires a subjective determination such as whether the person in the video audio or series of images can sing or dance.

In one embodiment when a decision about verification of the photographs and or characteristics has been made either by a computer system or a moderator the video audio or series of images for the verification is deleted optionally after a delay to allow for an appeal process whereby the user may appeal the decision optionally with additional information and the video audio or series of images is reused to repeat the verification process described herein. The user may be informed of the deletion prior to submitting the video audio or series of images so that the user may be motivated to perform certain actions in the video that he or she may be inhibited from performing if the user knew the video audio or series of images would not be deleted after use.

At step if the user in the video audio or series of images and the photographs and or characteristics is verified the user verified is notified that the verification process was successful and the requester of the verification is also similarly notified . As part of step the date and time of verification is stored associated with the photographs and or characteristics verified for use at the next display of the photographs and or characteristics as described herein.

In one embodiment verification user interface controls of step are provided on a photograph by photograph or characteristic by characteristic basis to allow the moderator to verify only some but not all the photographs and or characteristics as described herein. In such embodiments the notifications of step indicate which photographs were verified and the date and time is stored only with the one or more photographs or characteristics that were verified but not with the other photographs or characteristics from the same user. If the indication received from moderator is not to verify one or more photographs or characteristics the user whose photographs are being verified is informed of the failure of the verification and the user is requested to re perform the video audio or series of images and instructions technique of step or provide more accurate photographs and or characteristics in step and potentially remove the one or more photographs that were not verified or change the characteristic or characteristics not verified. The method continues at step waiting for the new request to be accepted.

In one embodiment verification of one or more photographs or characteristics is performed via a majority vote of three or more moderators who have viewed the video and seen the one or more photographs and or characteristics being verified instead of using a single moderator. If the majority votes against verification of a photo or characteristic that photo or characteristic is not verified.

Once a user s photographs and or characteristics have been verified the next time a different user requests the display of photographs and characteristics of that user the verification symbol of step is displayed with the verified photographs and characteristics.

In one embodiment if a verification request is received for one or more photographs and or characteristics in step such request is associated with the one or more photographs and or characteristics and an indication that verification of each photograph or characteristic is pending is displayed in step with the one or more photographs and or characteristics for which verification was requested but not successfully received optionally with the date of the request.

As used herein the term upharacteristic means a user supplied characteristic value such as height weight body style presence of hair etc. or photograph that is intended to represent the user who supplied it to other users of a service.

Referring now to a system for verifying and displaying user supplied photographs and or characteristics is shown according to one embodiment of the present invention.

Communication interface includes a conventional communication interface coupled to a network such as an Ethernet network the Internet or both via input output . Communication interface runs suitable communications protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet or both. Unless otherwise specified all communication with the system of is made via communication interface .

A user may log into the system of using user interface manager which supplies a user interface to receive a user identifier and password authenticates the user using conventional techniques against a username and password previously stored into photograph characteristic storage issues a unique session identifier to the user and stores such session identifier into photograph characteristic storage associated with the user identifier and also stores the session identifier onto a device from which the user is communicating to the system of via a conventional cookie or secure storage file or other similar technique. Unless otherwise specified other elements of numbered or higher reads such identifier locates it in photograph characteristic storage and obtains the user identifier from it as needed as they perform the functions described below.

When the user has authenticated himself or herself to user interface manager user interface manager supplies user interface elements such as via one or more links that allow a user to supply photographs and or characteristics as described herein search for users view messages from users or view their own supplied photographs and or characteristics. If the user selects the user interface element to supply photographs and or characteristics the user interface element signals photograph characteristic receiver .

When signaled photograph characteristic receiver receives from each of the several users of a web site photographs that include images of that user and characteristics describing that user. Photograph characteristic receiver stores such photographs and or characteristics into photograph characteristic storage associated with the identifier of the user that supplied such photograph along with a unique serial number it issues for each photograph.

If the user requests to view messages user interface manager provides a user interface to allow the user to see messages sent to that user. Each message may be listed with the message header as a link in a list of messages and when the user clicks a link user interface manager displays the message corresponding to the link and a username of the user who sent the message as a link. Such messages may have been sent using any conventional messaging method. If the user clicks the link corresponding to the user who sent the message photograph characteristic display manager is signaled with the identifier of the user such information having been embedded in the link.

If the user requests to perform a search user interface manager provides a user interface to allow the user to provide search parameters such as values or ranges of values of characteristics with which to perform the search. User interface manager receives such parameters searches for other users corresponding to the search parameters using information from such other users stored in photograph characteristic storage . User interface manager displays a list of such users that correspond to the user s search and may include one or more photos and a subset of the characteristics that such user has provided and are stored in photograph characteristic storage . Each user in the list may be displayed as a link and when the user selects one such link photograph characteristic display manager is signaled with the identifier of the user such information being embedded in the link.

If the user requests to view the user s own photographs and characteristics operating the user interface element such as the link signals photograph characteristic display manager with the user identifier of that user.

When signaled with the identifier of the user photograph characteristic display manager displays the photographs and characteristics associated with the user corresponding to the identifier it receives such photographs and characteristics being stored in photograph characteristic storage . Each photograph and or each of some of the characteristics is associated in photograph characteristic storage with a verification indication that indicates whether the photographs or characteristics have been verified as described herein. Each such photograph and or characteristic associated with a verification indication that is not expired as described above is displayed by photograph characteristic display manager with a verification symbol indicating that the photograph or characteristic was verified as described herein.

Photographs and or characteristics that may be verified and that are not associated with an unexpired verification indication indicating that the photograph or characteristic has been verified within a threshold amount of time are displayed by photograph characteristic display manager with a user interface control that allows the user to request verification of the photograph and or characteristic. For example the user interface control may be a check box and the user may check boxes displayed with each photograph and or characteristic the user wishes to have verified as described herein and then press a submit button that was also provided by photograph characteristic display manager .

In one embodiment limits as to the number of requests for verification a user may make are enforced by photograph characteristic display manager as described above using the information associated with the requests received that is stored in photograph characteristic storage . Photograph characteristic display manager enforces such limits by not displaying the user interface controls to a user who has exceeded such limit. In on embodiment a user s request to verify his or her own photograph and or characteristic is not counted against such limits.

When the user presses the submit button it signals verification request receiver with an indication of the check boxes or other user interface controls that the user had selected for verifying the corresponding photographs and or characteristics and the user identifier of the user that had supplied the photographs and or characteristics.

When it receives such information verification request receiver issues a unique serial number to the verification request and stores into photograph characteristic storage with the unique serial number the date and time the identifiers of the photographs indices of the characteristics or both for which verification was requested and the user identifier of the requesting user and the user identifier of the user who provided such photographs and or characteristics.

Verification request receiver identifies whether the verification request came from the user who had supplied the photographs and or characteristics or from a different user for example by using the cookie or secure storage information to identify the user who made the request and compare it to the user identifier of the user that supplied such photograph or characteristic. If the verification request came from a different user verification request receiver provides the information it received to verification request manager . If not verification request receiver signals video audio image manager with the verification request serial number.

When it receives such information verification request manager provides a conventional message to the user who supplied the photographs or characteristics to be verified with a link to video audio image manager that contains the verification request serial number. In one embodiment verification request manager instructs the user to click on the link it provides when the user is at a device coupled to or attached to a camera. When the user reviews the message if the user clicks the link video audio image manager is signaled with the verification request serial number.

When signaled with the verification request serial number video audio image manager enables a camera and or microphone on or attached to the user device not shown or other device provides instructions as described herein and causes the user s device to record a video audio or other series of images of the user as described above. In one embodiment instructions are selected from a database of instructions that are stored in video audio image storage . In one embodiment certain instructions correspond to individual characteristics that may be verified and the instructions selected by video audio image manager from the database in video audio image storage are selected in response to the characteristics that were requested to be verified as indicated with the verification request information corresponding to the verification request serial numbers stored in photograph characteristic storage . In one embodiment as video audio image manager provides instructions it may also display to the user one or more of that user s photographs being verified and request the user to position the user s body relative to the camera in the same position the user was in when the photograph being presented to that user was taken. In one embodiment video audio image manager supplies a user interface to allow the user to indicate the user s location in the photograph for example to distinguish the user from other people in the photograph if video audio image manager detects multiple people in the photograph using conventional detection techniques. Video audio image manager stores the position of the user into photograph characteristic storage associated with the identifier of the photograph. The user s location in the photograph may be used to verify the user as described herein and may be displayed by display manager when the user or other users subsequently have the photograph displayed as described herein. In one embodiment video audio image manager may reside partially in a server and partially on the user s device or all in one or the other or both as any of the other elements of can.

After video audio image manager has completed providing instructions video audio image manager stops the user s device from recording additional video audio or images and displays the images or plays back the video and or audio to the user on the user s device. Video audio image manager displays a user interface to allow the user to accept the video audio or set of images or to retry with a different video audio or set of images.

If the user uses the user interface to retry video audio image manager causes the video audio or set of images recorded to be discarded and repeats the process of providing instructions and recording a video audio or series of images as described above. As noted the instructions at a subsequent try may be different than the ones provided at the previous try or all prior tries from the same user for the same verification serial number. In such embodiment there may be multiple instructions stored in the database of instructions in video audio image storage for each characteristic that can be verified with a different one or more such instructions for each characteristic being selected at each retry. In one embodiment video audio image manager stores the identifier of the photograph or an index of the characteristic to which the instructions correspond together with the time relative to the start of the video or an identifier of the image captured around such time that such instructions were given. Such information is stored associated with the request serial number in photograph characteristic storage .

If the user uses the user interface to accept the video audio or series of images video audio image manager uploads the video audio or series of images to video audio image storage and associates the video audio or series of images with the verification request serial number it received and signals moderator manager with that serial number.

When it receives the serial number moderator manager locates the information associated with the serial number stored in photograph characteristic storage identifies the user from which the photographs and or characteristics being verified were received and identifies such photographs and or characteristics in photograph characteristic storage . Moderator manager uses the video audio or images associated with the serial number in video audio image storage to display to a moderator the video or the series of images and or provide the audio together with the photograph or characteristic that corresponds to the point in time of the video audio or the image in the series of images using the timing or image correspondence information described above that is stored in photograph characteristic storage .

Moderator manager provides user interface elements with each characteristic and or photograph being verified to allow the moderator to indicate whether or not to verify each such photograph and or characteristic as described above. Moderator manager stores the indication as to whether the moderator verified or did not verify each characteristic and or photograph in photograph characteristic storage for each photograph or characteristic being verified associated with such photograph or characteristic. In one embodiment moderator manager stores the date and time of the verification with the indication that the photograph and or characteristic has been verified into photograph characteristic storage associated with the identifier of the photograph or index of the characteristic verified optionally with an indication as to whether the information associated with the verification serial number indicates that the user who requested verification is the same user as the user who supplied the photograph or the characteristic. After all photographs and or characteristics corresponding to the verification request have been verified in this manner moderator manager provides the verification serial number to verification notification manager and in one embodiment deletes the video or series of images in one embodiment after a delay period e.g. 1 day to allow the verification using the same video audio or series of images.

In one embodiment moderator manager uses the techniques described above to automatically provide verification suggestions to the moderator as to whether the photograph or characteristic should or should not be verified to the moderator with each photograph and or characteristic it displays. In another embodiment the suggestions of moderator manager are assumed always taken by the moderator and stored as if the moderator had verified or not verified each photograph or characteristic as described above without any user input of the moderator except that in one embodiment occasionally moderator manager provides suggestions which the moderator must take action to accept or reject in order to verify or not verify the photograph or characteristic. In one embodiment moderator manager identifies a confidence score with each suggestion it provides with a higher confidence score indicating more confidence in the suggestion. In such embodiment suggestions with a confidence score above a threshold are automatically treated as if they were taken by a moderator by moderator manager without user input and otherwise suggestions are displayed to a human moderator with the user interface controls described above to allow the moderator to verify or not verify the photograph or characteristic.

When verification notification manager receives the verification serial number it looks up the identifier of the user who supplied the photographs and or characteristics for which the at least the attempt at verification was made determines if all of the photographs and or characteristics being verified corresponding to the verification serial number were verified using the information in photograph characteristic storage as described herein and notifies that user e.g. via a conventional message such as an e mail message whether the verification succeeded. If the verification did not succeed verification notification manager provides the same link to video audio image manager with the verification serial number as described above except that in one embodiment the link contains embedded information such as REST information that informs video audio image manager that this is a retry and suggests that the user replace the photos and or characteristics with those that are more accurate and retry the verification process or retry the verification process in a manner that makes verification more likely such as using brighter light for the video or images or other suggestions. In one embodiment if the user subsequently deletes one or more photographs for which verification was requested but not verified and adds one or more other photographs if the user clicks the link above video audio image manager will add the identifiers of any new photographs with the identifiers of the photographs in photograph characteristic storage that correspond to the verification serial number it received and deletes from photograph characteristic storage identifiers of photographs associated with the verification serial number it received but for which the photographs were deleted. The process described herein is then repeated and performed using the verification serial number for photographs and or characteristics that were not verified within the threshold amount of time.

Verification notification manager additionally checks the user identifiers associated with the verification serial number it receives. If the user identifiers are different verification notification manager sends a message such as an e mail message identifying the one or more photographs and or characteristics verified to the user who requested the verification.

In one embodiment unless all photographs and or characteristics for which verification was requested are verified verification notification manager waits a period of time such as one day before notifying the user who requested verification to allow the user being verified to retry the verification process or change the photographs and or characteristic values and retry the verification process. In such embodiment verification notification manager notifies the user who requested verification of all photographs and or characteristics verified and optionally indicates which photographs and or characteristics were replaced and then successfully verified using the information associated with the verification serial number in photograph characteristic storage .

When photograph characteristic display manager subsequently displays the photographs and characteristics it uses the information in photograph characteristic storage to display them with the symbols described above indicating whether the photographs or characteristics have been verified and or whether a verification request was made and the date of that request.

In one embodiment if any photographs or characteristics of a user are verified when the user s identifier is displayed to any user by user interface manager user interface manager will also display one or more symbols indicating that at least one such photograph and or one such characteristic of that user are verified even user interface manager is not presently displaying a verified photograph or characteristic so that the user viewing such information may determine which users to investigate more fully.

In one embodiment the position of a user in search results listed by user interface manager is altered to be higher up than it would otherwise be if any of the photographs and or characteristics of that user have been verified as described above.

In one embodiment user interface manager matches users using their characteristics and sends one or both matched user a message that indicates the other user with which that user was matched. In one embodiment a user who has a threshold amount or percentage of photographs and or characteristics verified as described herein will be matched with more users or only with users who also have a threshold amount of photographs and or characteristics verified by user interface manager .

Described is a method of verifying registration information including receiving information about a user of a website including purported characteristics of the user of the web site for display to other users of the web site and or at least one photograph purported to represent the user of the web site for display to other users of the web site providing at least one instruction to the user of the web site requesting the user to pose in a certain manner while causing at least one image to be recorded of the user posing in the manner receiving the series of images recorded either simultaneously with their recording or thereafter providing the series of images to a moderator and at least one of the purported characteristics and or at least one of the at least one photograph from the information about the user of the web site receiving an indication from the moderator whether the series of images of the user at least correspond to the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph provided to the moderator and providing data for rendering to other users of the web site a human perceptible indication that the at least one of the purported characteristics and or at least one of the at least one photograph of the information about the user of the web site have been verified responsive to the indication received.

The method optionally includes a feature whereby at least a portion of the moderator comprises a human moderator.

The method optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph comprises the at least one of the purported characteristic.

The method optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph comprises the at least one photograph.

The method optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one instruction to the user of the web site is provided in response to a request received from the user of the web site.

The method optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one instruction to the user of the web site is provided in response to a request received from another user of the web site different from the user of the web site.

The method may additionally include providing for display to the user of the web site the series of images and receiving from the user an approval of the series of images and optionally includes a feature whereby the providing data for rendering to other users step is responsive to the approval of the series of images received.

The method optionally includes a feature whereby the providing data for rendering to other users step is responsive to an amount of time between the providing data for rendering to other users step and the receiving the series of images step or the receiving the indication step.

Described is a system of verifying registration information including a photograph characteristic receiver having an input for receiving information about a user of a website including purported characteristics of the user of the web site for display to other users of the web site and or at least one photograph purported to represent the user of the web site for display to other users of the web site the photograph characteristic receiver for providing at an output the information about the user of the web site an instruction manager having an output for providing at least one instruction to the user of the web site requesting the user to pose in a certain manner while causing via the instruction manager output at least one image to be recorded of the user posing in the manner a video audio image manager having an input for receiving the series of images recorded either simultaneously with their recording or thereafter the video audio image manager for providing at an output the series of images recorded a moderator manager having an input coupled to the video audio image manager for receiving the series of images recorded and to the photograph characteristic receiver output for receiving the information about the user of the web site the moderator manager for providing at an output the series of images for display to a moderator and at least one of the purported characteristics and or at least one of the at least one photograph from the information about the user of the web site for receiving from the moderator at the moderator manager input an indication whether the series of images of the user at least correspond to the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph provided to the moderator and for providing at the moderator manager output the indication and a photograph characteristic display manager having an input coupled to the moderator manager output for receiving the indication and to the photograph characteristic output for receiving the information about the user of the web site the photograph characteristic display manager for providing data for rendering to other users of the web site a human perceptible indication that the at least one of the purported characteristics and or at least one of the at least one photograph from the information about the user of the web site have been verified responsive to the indication received at the photograph characteristic display manager input.

The system optionally includes a feature whereby at least a portion of the moderator comprises a human moderator.

The system optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph comprises the at least one of the purported characteristic.

The system optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph comprises the at least one photograph.

The system may additionally include a verification request manager having an input coupled to receive a verification request from the user of the web site the verification request manager for providing at an output a signal responsive to receipt of the verification request and optionally includes a feature whereby the instruction manager input is additionally coupled to the verification request manager output for receiving the signal and the at least one instruction to the user of the web site is provided by the instruction manager in response to the signal received at the instruction manager input.

The system may additionally include a verification request manager having an input coupled to receive from another user of the web site different from the user of the web site a verification request specifying the user of the web site the verification request manager for providing at an output a signal identifying the user of the web site responsive to receipt of the verification request and optionally includes a feature whereby the instruction manager input is additionally coupled to the verification request manager output for receiving the signal and the at least one instruction to the user of the web site is provided by the instruction manager in response to the signal received at the instruction manager input.

The system optionally includes a feature whereby the video audio image manager is additionally for providing via the video audio image manager output for display to the user of the web site the series of images and receiving from the user via the video audio image manager input an approval of the series of images and the photograph characteristic display manager provides data for rendering to other users responsive to the approval of the series of images received.

The system optionally includes a feature whereby the moderator manager additionally provides at the moderator manager output an first identification of substantially when the indication was received and or the video audio image manager additionally provides at the video audio image manager output a second identification of substantially when the series of images was received the photograph characteristic display manager input is additionally for receiving the first identification and or is additionally coupled to the video audio image manager output for receiving the second identification the photograph characteristic display manager provides data for rendering to other users responsive to an amount of time between a time or day near or when the photograph characteristic display manager provides the data for rendering to other users and the first and or second identifications.

Described is a computer program product including a computer useable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for verifying registration information the computer program product including computer readable program code devices configured to cause a computer system to receive information about a user of a website including purported characteristics of the user of the web site for display to other users of the web site and or at least one photograph purported to represent the user of the web site for display to other users of the web site provide at least one instruction to the user of the web site requesting the user to pose in a certain manner while causing at least one image to be recorded of the user posing in the manner receive the series of images recorded either simultaneously with their recording or thereafter provide the series of images to a moderator and at least one of the purported characteristics and or at least one of the at least one photograph from the information about the user of the web site receive an indication from the moderator whether the series of images of the user at least correspond to the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph provided to the moderator and provide data for rendering to other users of the web site a human perceptible indication that the at least one of the purported characteristics and or at least one of the at least one photograph of the information about the user of the web site have been verified responsive to the indication received.

The computer program product optionally includes a feature whereby at least a portion of the moderator comprises a human moderator.

The computer program product optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph comprises the at least one of the purported characteristic.

The computer program product optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one of the purported characteristics and or the at least one of the at least one photograph comprises the at least one photograph.

The computer program product optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one instruction to the user of the web site is provided in response to a request received from the user of the web site.

The computer program product optionally includes a feature whereby the at least one instruction to the user of the web site is provided in response to a request received from another user of the web site different from the user of the web site.

The computer program product may additionally include computer readable program code devices configured to cause the computer system to provide for display to the user of the web site the series of images and receive from the user an approval of the series of images and optionally includes a feature whereby the computer readable program code devices configured to cause a computer system to provide data for rendering to other users are responsive to the approval of the series of images received.

The computer program product optionally includes a feature whereby the computer readable program code devices configured to cause the computer system to provide data for rendering to other users are responsive to an amount of time approximately between operation of computer readable program code devices configured to cause the computer system to provide data for rendering to other users and operation of the computer readable program code devices configured to cause the computer system to receive the series of images or operation of the computer readable program code devices configured to cause the computer system to receive the indication.

