---

title: Print function system and method for secure cloud data storage
abstract: A system and method of transferring data between human readable documents using a virtual print driver is disclosed. A first user's computer has a standard text application having a print capability able to output documents in a standard Page Description Language (PDL) file. A virtual print driver then produces an encrypted file that identifies the document source and an intended recipient, establishes a secure link, and transfers the file to a secure cloud store via a secure cloud server that translates the document into a structured format, allowing elements of the document to be accessed individually. The stored document is then accessed in whole, in part, by the intended recipient and third parties authorized by them via a secure communication channel. The intended recipient and the third parties can use the document and/or incorporate further data into, or remove from, the document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09274729&OS=09274729&RS=09274729
owner: 
number: 09274729
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150608
---
This application claims the priority of U.S. Ser. No. 62 016 803 filed on Jun. 25 2014 the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to data processing and more particularly to inter process communication using a virtual device driver.

Most organizations in the United States are attempting to go paperless that is store organize and file their documents digitally. This transition entails storing and using these documents while they are contained in a compact digital format on miniaturized electronic memory devices and avoids having to have filing cabinets of historical data. That digital storage often occurs on the cloud which consists of third party server farms. A significant problem for many businesses especially smaller offices is getting existing paper documentation into digital form and then extracting required elements of that data.

This problem is made more difficult in highly regulated industries such as the health industry where statutes such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 HIPAA Privacy Security and Breach Notification Rules impose a significant burden of confidentiality on parties in that industry.

A further significant related problem is the need for different parties within the industry to have access to selected parts of the stored data.

The present invention addresses both of these issues by providing a system and method in which data can be sent in an encrypted form to a secure data storage site via a secure path. That data is then accessible and under the control of one accountable party in the case of medical data the person who is the subject of the data. That accountable party can then share some or all of that data with other parties or give other parties authorization to access specific element of that data. In that way a patient may control access to and sharing of their own medical data. So a patient having multiple care practitioners may easily share relevant information such as but not limited to updated insurance plans basic information about address and history as well as specific data relevant to a particular care provider without allowing access to irrelevant data personal data. For instance a patient with a heart condition may need to share data on medications but may not want to share data on past psychiatric issues.

United States Patent Application 20080294976 submitted by Eyal Rosenberg and published on Nov. 27 2008 entitled System and method for generating and communicating digital documents that describes how a document may be sent to a virtual printer which may be a software module configured as a print driver to receive the printer file retrieve further information from a data repository and produce a file including both the document image and additional information. The software module may further transmit the document to a central hub from which it may be further processed and or transmitted to an intended recipient.

United States Patent Application 20110208836 submitted by John O Fallon et al. and published on Aug. 25 2011 entitled Document Sharing Using a Third Party Document Delivery Service that describes a virtual printer which includes a document transfer function can be activated within an application program using the standard operating system print mechanism. When the user selects the virtual printer the software performs the steps of converting the document to a standard display file requesting a document delivery from a database server receiving a unique identifier and a name of a file server uploading the standard display file corresponding to the document to the named file server using the unique identifier as the storage identifier and displaying in an outbox an indication that the document was sent. At a remote site a Document Delivery Service is configured to perform the steps of accepting document delivery requests initiating such requests responding with file transfer instructions including a unique identifier receiving the uploaded file storing the file accepting polling inquiries received from potential document recipients responding with a list of available documents addressed to each potential recipient and enabling the recipient computer to download the standard display file. To ensure confidentiality and avoid tampering or forgery all communication and data transfers between the client computers and the managed file transfer service carried out over secure network connections.

United States Patent Application 20130063774 submitted by Jayasimha Nuggehalli et al. and published on Mar. 14 2013 entitled Method And Device For Printing A Scheduled Print Job that describes a method and apparatus for printing a scheduled print job by a printing device connected to a client device over a network. The method includes transmitting by the client device a request to print the scheduled print job to the printing device. The scheduled print job includes print data and schedule data corresponding to a scheduled time the print data is to be printed. The printing device obtains the print job from cloud storage or from local storage depending on a storage selection indicator and executes the scheduled print job at the scheduled time. A determination is made as to whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully at the scheduled time. Further a message indicating whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully based on the determination is sent to a predetermined device.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 404 108 issued to Caplan et al. on Jul. 22 2008 entitled Notification method and apparatus in a data processing system that describes a method of apparatus for or storage device medium having instructions for publishing a first notification within a data processing system where the data processing system comprises a first source generating the first notification a first destination device and a second destination device. The source may be a storage unit a printer a processing unit or any other device which is a component of the data processing system. The destination device is typically a monitor a workstation a computer a PC or other input output type workstation. The method comprises of having the first destination device subscribe to receive notifications from the first source. In addition the second destination device subscribes to receive the notifications serially republished from the first destination device. Upon the publication of a notification from the first source to the first destination device the first destination device will publish the notification to the second destination device.

Various implements are known in the art but fail to address all of the problems solved by the invention described herein. One embodiment of this invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings and will be described in more detail herein below.

An inventive system and method of transferring data between human readable documents using a virtual print driver is disclosed.

In a preferred embodiment a first user having a first computer may have a document such as but not limited to a standard form that may be accessible by a first application such as but not limited to a Microsoft Word text processing application.

Such commercial applications invariably have a print capability. Because users may choose to use printers from different manufacturers the industry has evolved to what is essentially a two step process for printing. The application almost always has the capability to output any document created using it into a Page Description Language PDL file that is typically standardized. The printer manufacturer then typically provides a print driver that is a software module that translates the PDL file description of the document into machine instructions that may be a pixel element description of the document to be printed and which enables the printer to actually print the document on paper in the required human format.

Practically all applications operating on a person computer have this capability to produce an intermediate file specifying the document layout and structure in a standard PDL file. The present invention takes advantage of this. In the present invention a computer program is provided that acts as a virtual print driver but instead of converting the PDL file into a raster file suitable for use by a printer to print out the document the virtual print driver of this invention produces an encrypted file that may have both the PDL file as well as an identity of document source and an identity of an intended recipient of the document.

The virtual driver may then establish a secure link using a protocol such as but not limited to a Secure Sockets Layer SSL a Transport Layer Security TLS link or some combination thereof. The secure link may be to a cloud based secure data storage facility associated with or accessible by the intended recipient. The virtual driver may then transmit that encrypted document from the first user s facility to the secure storage unit.

The secure data repository may also have the capability to convert the encrypted document into a secure structured document such as but not limited to an XML representation of the document. This conversion may use knowledge of the sender of the document and the current software and hardware they use.

The recipient may then access the document or the secure structured document using appropriate security measures such as but not limited to a challenge response password or biometric based verification module.

The intended recipient may also provide permission to third parties to some or all of either the original encrypted document or the secure structured document or some combination thereof.

The recipient or the authorized third party may then receive the requested data via a secure link and may then print of display the data in a human readable form.

Therefore the present invention succeeds in conferring the following and others not mentioned desirable and useful benefits and objectives.

It is an object of the present invention to provide simple but secure method for an entity to access and distribute relevant data.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a simple and secure method for a first party to transmit forms with data to a second party who may then control further access to the data.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a HIPPA compliant data sharing device operable between unrelated entities.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. Identical elements in the various figures are identified with the same reference numerals.

Various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail. Such embodiments are provided by way of explanation of the present invention which is not intended to be limited thereto. In fact those of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate upon reading the present specification and viewing the present drawings that various modifications and variations can be made thereto.

Typically a user or users which may be people or groups of users and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate operation of the system and information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information and such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the present invention may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network. For example the present invention may be connected to and or communicate with users operating client device s including but not limited to personal computer s server s and or various mobile device s including but not limited to cellular telephone s smartphone s e.g. iPhone Blackberry Android OS based phones etc. tablet computer s e.g. Apple iPad HP Slate Motorola Xoom etc. eBook reader s e.g. Amazon Kindle Barnes and Noble s Nook eReader etc. laptop computer s notebook s netbook s gaming console s e.g. XBOX Live Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation Portable etc. portable scanner s and or the like.

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The present invention may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory.

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effect communications operations storage etc. Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to a Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing the controller of the present invention to determine its location Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS an Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications and or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the present invention and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed embodiments of the present invention mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the present invention may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the various embodiments some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the component collection distributed or otherwise and or features of the present invention may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the present invention may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example features of the present invention discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the features of the present invention. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the system designer administrator of the present invention somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the present invention may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate features of the controller of the present invention to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the present invention.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the present invention thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component. In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network. Through a communications network the controller of the present invention is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed embodiments of the present invention architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the controller of the present invention. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices such as other components of the cooling chest system including temperature sensors ice dispensers if provided and the like may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the controller of the present invention. Peripheral devices may also include for example an antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. drive motors ice maker lighting video monitors and or the like.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the controller of the present invention. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory. However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the controller of the present invention and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory. For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device. A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the controller of the present invention. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. The operating system may be one specifically optimized to be run on a mobile computing device such as iOS Android Windows Phone Tizen Symbian and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the controller of the present invention to communicate with other entities through a communications network. Various communication protocols may be used by the controller of the present invention as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the controller of the present invention based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the database of the present invention operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the database of the present invention may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the present invention. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the present invention as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the enabled nodes of the present invention. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the present invention.

Access to the mail of the present invention may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the present invention may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for a digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the component of the present invention to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the present invention and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The database component of the present invention may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the database of the present invention may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the database of the present invention is implemented as a data structure the use of the database of the present invention may be integrated into another component such as the component of the present invention. Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables. A Users e.g. operators and physicians table may include fields such as but not limited to user id ssn dob first name last name age state address firstline address secondline zipcode devices list contact info contact type alt contact info alt contact type and or the like to refer to any type of enterable data or selections discussed herein. The Users table may support and or track multiple entity accounts. A Clients table may include fields such as but not limited to user id client id client ip client type client model operating system os version app installed flag and or the like. An Apps table may include fields such as but not limited to app ID app name app type OS compatibilities list version timestamp developer ID and or the like. A beverages table including for example heat capacities and other useful parameters of different beverages such as depending on size beverage name beverage size desired coolingtemp cooling time favorite drinker number of beverages current beverage temperature current ambient temperature and or the like. An Parameter table may include fields including the foregoing fields or additional ones such as cool start time cool preset cooling rate and or the like. A Cool Routines table may include a plurality of cooling sequences may include fields such as but not limited to sequence type sequence id flow rate avg water temp cooling time pump setting pump speed pump pressure power level temperature sensor id number temperature sensor location and or the like.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the platform of the present invention. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the system of the present invention may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components. The system of the present invention may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

A first human readable document may be stored digitally on a first user s computer in a format suitable for use with a first software application .

The first application may for instance be a word or data processing application such as but not limited to the Microsoft Corporation s Word or Excel software application.

Such software applications typically incorporate functionality enabling documents to be displayed on a display screen in a human readable form and to enable a printer to print the document in a human readable form on a standard sheet of paper such as but not limited to to a letter legal or A4 sized sheet of paper.

The functionality to enable printing typically requires a print driver software module that may be peculiar to a printer connected to the user s computer.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention in addition to a conventional print driver there may also or instead be a virtual print driver .

The act of printing the file via the application to the virtual print driver may then not produce a document printed on paper but instead initiate producing an encrypted file and then sending that file via the Internet to a cloud server that may then store the file on secure data repository .

An entity that may be identified by the stored file as having permission to access the file may for instance be a client who may use a computer to access the stored file via the Internet and the cloud server and obtain their own copy as a client file .

This client file may then be rendered by a software application on their computer as a human readable file on a computer display or printed as a human readable file on paper and may be an accurate representation of the data originally stored on first human readable document .

Firstly there may be a source ID . This may for instance be an alpha numerical indicia that indicates information pertaining to the source of the document such as but not limited to an identity of the first user s computer a nature of the first application a nature of the virtual print driver or some combination thereof. These identities and natures may for instance include parameters or indices indicative of information such as but not limited to product types version numbers equipment identifiers physical location via GPS or other location identification means names and or authorization levels or categories of people authorized to see alter or otherwise interact with the document application or virtual print driver or some combination thereof.

Secondly there may be a target ID . This may for instance be an alpha numerical indicia that indicates information pertaining to who may access the secure addressed file . This may include information such as but not limited to a name of an individual person their Social Security number their tax identification number the address at which they reside their date of birth an account number recognized by the cloud server or some combination thereof.

A third part of the secure addressed file may be an encrypted tagged format file . This element of the file may for instance be produced by the virtual print driver .

Although the examples above have for simplicity been stated in terms of alpha numeric strings one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that the first human readable document may contain some or be all multi media content containing audio video or photography and the indicia in the secure addressed file may be graphical in nature using for example images or bar codes. However in a digital system all such data is typically reduced to a binary or similar alpha numeric string and the description above is therefore intended to include all multimedia forms that may be represented as binary strings of digital data.

The first user s computer may be running a first application that may be processing data that may be representative of human readable or intelligible multimedia such as but not limited to text images video and audio or some combination thereof.

There may for instance be a first human readable document that may be accessed by the first application for purposes such as but not limited to display editing copying or printing or some combination thereof. One of the purposes that an application may to print the document on paper via a printer . In order to do this the first application in response to a user requesting that the document be printed may first translate this into a Page Description Language PDL file . PDL is a de facto standard format used so that applications may more easily interface with physical printers.

The printer manufacture typically provides a print driver . This may be a software module operative on the first user s computer that performs the function of translating the Page Description Language PDL file into a raw binary dot pattern file that may be used by the printer to produce a human readable printed on paper document .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention there may be a virtual print driver that may be a software module operative on the first user s computer . The virtual print driver may appear to the first application as a printer to which document may be sent for printing. The virtual print driver may however have a different functionality. Instead of converting the Page Description Language PDL file into a raw binary dot pattern file suitable for use by a printer it may instead convert the Page Description Language PDL file into a secure addressed file . The virtual print driver may also initiate sending the secure addressed file via a public digital data network to a cloud server .

The cloud server may be programmed to perform the function of storing the secure addressed file on a secure data repository that may for instance be attached directly to the cloud server .

The cloud server may also be programmed to perform the function of extracting data from the secure addressed file and converting it to a tagged format file . The tagged format file may for instance be in a format such as but not limited to XML. The tagged format file may also be stored in the secure data repository .

The entity identified by the target ID associated secure addressed file may access the cloud server via the public digital data network . After authenticating that the identity of the entity matches the identity and is the recipient that the secure addressed file is mean for the cloud server may send a data file request by the user . The data file request by the user may be all or part of the data stored on the secure addressed file or the tagged format file or some combination thereof.

The entity that may for instance be a computer or other digital device accessible to or controlled by a patient may cause the requested data to be printed or otherwise displayed as a human readable document that may be printed on paper.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a second user may also have permissions that may for instance be granted by designated entity to obtain all or part of the data stored on the secure data repository that may be under the control of the cloud server .

The second user may receive a data file requested by them or sent to them by the target entity . This data file may for instance be displayed in human readable form on a display device printed out by a printer as a human readable printed document on paper or presented audibly as audio delivered by a synthesized voice.

As depicted in each of the offices is envisioned as being a physician s office that may each be part of a local network. For instanced a first physician office may be part of a first local area network a second physician office may be part of a second local area network and a third physician office may be part of a third local area network . However all of these offices may have a connection to a cloud server via a public digital data network that allows them access to a secure data repository containing patient records. A patient may also have access to the secure data repository via the public digital data network and the cloud server .

In this manner a patient may obtain services from a number of physician offices each of which may be part of their secure hospital or medical group network but may via the cloud server be able to securely and confidentially share pertinent aspects of the patients medical records in a HIPPA compliant manner with the patient maintaining control of access to those securely stored records. This may obviate the need for amongst other things patients having to fill out detailed forms about their medical history each time they visit a physician s office.

Although the invention has been described with reference to physician s offices and medical records one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the system and method of the invention may be applied to many other situations such as but not limited to accounting offices and financial information legal offices and legal information or some combination thereof.

Although this invention has been described with a certain degree of particularity it is to be understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of illustration and that numerous changes in the details of construction and arrangement of parts may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention.

