---

title: Communication device input interfaces for use in determining a more accurate cost of an item
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for communication device input interfaces for use in determining a true cost of an item with associated purchases. A user may utilize a communication device, such as a mobile phone or wearable computing device, to input information identifying an item. The input may be an image, audio, or text input. The input may be communicated to a server that determines associated purchases required or recommended with the item identified by the user. For example, the user may be recommended to purchase additional items for the installation of the item or for repairs to a home, work, or vehicle when using the item. The user may also be required to purchase shipping, labor, or other additional costs. The additional purchases may be determined from user and merchant information. A total cost for the item and the additional purchases may be determined for the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524507&OS=09524507&RS=09524507
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09524507
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150223
---
The present application generally relates to communication device input interfaces for use in determining a more accurate or an effective cost of an item and more specifically to using costs of other purchases that may be required or desired with the item.

A user may visit a merchant location in order to shop for products services goods or other merchandise collectively referred to as an item or items herein . The user may require an item such as new installations in a home work location or vehicle e.g. to fix or repair the location vehicle . At other times the user may simply wish to purchase physical items such as appliances clothing or other physical goods. However when the user selects an item for purchase they may view a price for the item that does not include possible additional required or desired costs such as tax shipping labor for installation of the item and or insurance for the item. Moreover the user may not be aware of additional required items to purchase with the item identified by the user for purchase. For example a purchase of a new television may require associated power and signal cords. Likewise purchase of new flooring for a house may require repairs to a subflooring not known to a user binding agents and or sealants. Thus when the user selects an item for purchase the user may be unaware of the actual cost for use of the item.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods utilized by communication device input interfaces for determining a more accurate or an effective cost of an item also referred herein as a true cost . Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

A user may visit a merchant location to shop for one or more items. While at the merchant location the user may utilize a communication device to enter information identifying at least one item the user wishes to purchase. The item may correspond to some good product service or other merchandise. Thus the information identifying the item may include an image of the item e.g. still or video image or the item identifier e.g. a barcode on the item item packaging text input of the item name or identifier voice input identifying the item or other information allowing for identification of the item. The user may identify the item in order to receive a price of the item description of the item ordering details for the item or other information. The communication device may interface with a merchant device e.g. through a wireless beacon at the merchant location or a connection with the merchant device and may receive information about the item. Thus various merchant locations may provide short range wireless communications with users communication devices such as through beacons using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE LTE Direct or other communication protocol. These beacons may be set up at the merchant location such as at or nearby an entrance to the merchant location throughout the merchant location and sub areas of the merchant location e.g. at sales aisles booths or other sub areas and or at checkout counters where a user pays for a transaction. The beacons may communicate with devices in possession of users in order to connect to the device and determine the user is in proximity to the beacon. The beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with a merchant device to provide the user with merchant information and communicate information about the user s location to the merchant. In other embodiments the communication device may receive the information over a network connection with another entity such as a merchant server payment provider online marketplace or other information provider.

The user may also receive information about ancillary additional or other purchases that may be required necessitated desired and or recommended when purchasing the item identified in the user input. The additional purchases may increase a cost of the item such that the total cost amount for purchase of the item with the additional purchases is determined. In this regard the communication device may communicate the user input to a server such as an online marketplace server merchant server and or payment provider which may determine the item identifier in the user input and further determine the additional purchases required when purchasing the item. The additional purchases may be determined using past purchases alongside the identified item by other users. For example when purchasing a new electronic device previous users may purchase power cords connection cable power chargers and or batteries. Thus the additional purchases may include required or recommended items to purchase with the identified item in order to utilize the identified item. The additional purchases may also include costs associated with the purchase that may not be readily apparent to the user including shipping costs labor costs to construct move or install the item tax costs e.g. state local and or item specific taxes repair costs to the item or required through movement installation of the item and or insurance costs. The additional purchases determined using the past purchases may be determined using past receipts or other transaction histories by the merchant with the past users or by other merchants offering the same or similar item for sale and or by merchants providing items associated with the initial purchase.

The additional purchases may also be determined using the item information received from the merchant such as a description of the item and or item type brand status of the item age of the item condition of the item or other information about the item. Thus the user may be recommended additional purchases or required to purchase the additional purchases based on information received from the merchant. The information received from the merchant may also include merchant fees which may include a shipping fee if the item is not immediately available or needs to be ordered a restocking fee a processing fee or other fees required by the merchant. The merchant information may also include costs associated with a service provided by the merchant such as costs incurred for a repair e.g. new items and labor costs for installation of the item . The server may access inventory information pricing information e.g. menus online pricing guides etc. or other merchant information from the merchant for use in determining the additional purchases.

The server may also receive and or access user information which may be utilized to determine the additional purchases. The user information may be provided by the user such as through personal and or financial information. Thus the additional purchases may include purchases required by the user s information such as additional costs incurred due to health conditions preferences location etc. The additional purchases may also be necessitated by the user s financial status include a potential interest rate incurred due to the user s credit rating an interest rate of a credit card used to pay for the item or a cost of overdrawing an account. The user s information may also be accessed from a third party entity which may include information about the user such as a location for the user e.g. work home a vehicle for the user health information about the user preferences of the user financial information about the user etc. Thus the user may not provide the user information and may be unaware of the user information. For example a building history county property record vehicle history etc. may include information about other purchases required by the user e.g. repairs necessitated if the user purchases an item for a location vehicle .

Once the additional purchases are determined the server may determine a true cost for purchase of the item using the cost for the item and the additional purchases. The true cost may be communicated to the communication device of the user so that the user may view a cost of the item including the additional purchases. The user may then make a more informed decision on whether to purchase the item. If the user chooses to purchase the item a purchase request for the item as well as the additional purchases in various embodiments may be communicated to the server another payment provider and or the merchant which may process and complete payment for the item and the additional purchases where applicable . A transaction history may then be provided to the merchant and or user.

System includes a user a communication device a merchant device and a payment provider server in communication over a network . User with communication device may travel to a merchant location associated with merchant device in order to shop for one or more items. While at the merchant location user may utilize communication device to input information identifying an item that user wishes to purchase at the merchant location. The user input may be communicated to payment provider server which may determine additional ancillary and or recommended purchases with the item. Merchant device may provide inventory information to payment provider server which may include information allowing payment provider server to determine the additional purchases and or cost information. Payment provider server may determine a total cost for the item and the additional purchases using the cost information about the items such that a true cost to purchase the item is determined that reflects a cost for all purchases required or desired to utilize install or otherwise obtain and or use the identified item. A purchase of the item and or the additional items may be processed between communication device and merchant device by payment provider server .

Communication device merchant device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Communication device may be implemented as a communication device that may utilize appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with merchant device and or payment provider server . For example in one embodiment communication device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device implantable communication devices and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a communication device is shown the communication device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one communication device is shown a plurality of communication devices may function similarly.

Communication device of contains a cost analysis module a payment module other applications a database and a communication module . Cost analysis module payment module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware. In other embodiments communication device may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

Cost analysis module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of communication device to process user input identifying an item and receive a true cost for purchase of the item with necessary or recommended additional purchases e.g. ancillary required items . In this regard cost analysis module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by communication device to receive or otherwise process user input from user that identifies an item user is interested in and or wishes to purchase. The user input may correspond to an image e.g. still or video captured by user or retrieved by user using communication device . The image may be captured by a camera device of communication device . In other embodiments user may access a local or remote database e.g. database a database of merchant device or a database located on a third party entity such as an image file server . The image may include a visual representation of the item for example the item or item label. The image may also include a barcode QR code alphanumeric code or other identifier in other embodiments. Moreover certain embodiments may include text input as the user input such as a name brand item type alphanumeric code or other text input identifying the item or may include voice audio input that identifies the item e.g. voice input by user a recording of the item sound etc. . Cost analysis module may also provide tools to allow user to more accurately select an item identified in user input such as image processing features and tools selection or highlighting tools or other functions.

Once the user input is received the user input may be communicated to merchant device and or payment provider server for processing to determine additional items for purchase with the item identified in the user input. Cost analysis module may connect with merchant device and or a wireless beacon at a merchant location for merchant device to establish that user is located at the merchant location. In this regard a communication between cost analysis module and merchant device a wireless beacon may provide and or verify the identity of user including transmission of an identifier for user and or communication device or other information used to process a check in for user . Thus check in information may be established when a connection is made by cost analysis module with one or more of merchant device and the wireless beacon.

In order to establish the connection cost analysis module may receive short range wireless communications through communication module at merchant location and transmit information to merchant device and or the wireless beacon including check in information for a check in process that associates user with the device connected with communication device . For example a wireless beacon may be located at and throughout the merchant location e.g. at an entrance through sub areas of the merchant location and or at a checkout payment location in merchant location and set up to communicate with communication device when communication device is in proximity to the wireless beacon. Thus the wireless beacon may be range limited to connect only with devices e.g. communication device within the specified area such as a radius around wireless beacon a distance away from wireless beacon and or a signal direction for wireless beacon. When communication device enters the proximity radius for the wireless beacon or merchant device in various embodiments communication device and the one or more of wireless beacons may connect and check in information including an identifier for user and or communication device may be transmitted to the connected beacons of wireless beacon.

Cost analysis module may execute in the background of an operating system of communication device and be configured to establish connections using communication module of communication device with one or more of merchant device and the wireless beacon. The connection may be established with or without input from user . For example merchant device and or the wireless beacon may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by cost analysis module as explained herein. Cost analysis module may utilize communication module of communication device to receive the token from merchant device and or the wireless beacon. If cost analysis module acknowledges the UUID as identifying the merchant location merchant device the wireless beacon and or payment provider server e.g. if cost analysis module determines the UUID corresponds to a request to establish a communication channel and or process and complete a check in cost analysis module may transmit an identifier corresponding to user and or communication device back to merchant device and or the wireless beacon. Cost analysis module may utilize communication module of communication device to communicate with merchant device and or the wireless beacon e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared LTE Direct or other communication protocol . The identifier from communication device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from wireless beacon. In other embodiments different information may be communicated by communication device such as an identifier for user a name or other personal information for user or other identifying information. Thus the information does not need to be utilized to process and or complete a check in in all embodiments. Once a connection is established with wireless beacon the process may associate user with the one or more of wireless beacon used to connect to communication device .

Once a connection is established with merchant device and or wireless beacon by cost analysis module cost analysis module may provide the user input and or user information for user to merchant device and or the wireless beacon. The user input and or information may be communicated to payment provider server for processing. Merchant device may further provide merchant information to payment provider server including pricing cost information and or inventory information as discussed herein. However in other embodiments cost analysis module may provide the user input and or information to payment provider server directly using a connection over network . Identification of user at the merchant location for merchant device using the connection may also be communicated to payment provider server e.g. by communication device and or merchant device for use in retrieving item merchant and or cost information by payment provider server .

Payment provider server may determine additional purchases for the item identified in the user input as discussed herein. Once payment provider server determines the additional purchases and or the total cost for the identified item and the additional purchases payment provider server may communicate the additional purchases and or the total cost to communication device for display to user through a display interface of cost analysis module . User may therefore view the additional purchases required and or recommended for purchase with the identified item. Cost analysis module may identify each of the additional purchases as required recommended or commonly purchased with the identified item. Thus user may be allowed to choose which items user wants to purchase. For example user may already possess batteries or choose to not purchase recommended insurance. A purchase request may then be generated through selection of one or more of the items and the additional purchases by user and payment module may be utilized to communicate the purchase request to merchant device and or payment provider server for processing. Additionally cost analysis module may receive information used with payment module such as costs and or item identifiers.

Payment module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of communication device to provide payment tokens to merchant device for use in processing and completing a payment to the merchant associated with merchant device and merchant server . In this regard payment module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized to provide a convenient interface to permit user to select payment options and provide payment for items to merchant device . For example payment module may be implemented as a user interface enabling user to enter payment options for storage by communication device provide those payment options on checkout payment of one or more items and complete a transaction for the item s through a purchase request for the item s . In some embodiments payment module may correspond more generally to a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet or access a website corresponding to a payment service provider e.g. payment provider server . Payment module may utilize user financial information such as a credit card bank account or other financial account as a payment instrument when providing payment information in the form of a payment token to merchant device . Additionally payment module may utilize a user account with payment provider such as payment provider server as the payment instrument. In various embodiments the payment token may be communicated to merchant device directly or through one or more of wireless beacon. In other embodiments the payment token may be communicated directly to payment provider server . The payment token may also include identification of the item s for purchase and a request to purchase the items.

Once user enters information identifying an item to cost analysis module communication device may receive cost information for the item and additional purchases for the item as discussed herein. User may elect to complete a transaction to purchase the item and one or more of the additional purchases for example through selection of the item s in cost analysis module . Payment module may be utilized to generate a purchase request for the item s and provide or identify payment information to complete the transaction. Thus payment module may populate the purchase request information from cost analysis module . For example payment module may be used to generate the purchase request from displayable items or may include the purchase received from one or more of merchant device and or the wireless beacon. Payment module may be utilized to facilitate creation of a payment token. The payment token may be generated using payment information e.g. a payment instrument such as a user account or payment card information from payment module and the payment token may be transmitted by payment module to one or more of merchant device and or payment provider server . Payment provider server may provide payment for the purchase request to the merchant or merchant device may process the payment account in the payment token to receive payment for the transaction.

In various embodiments communication device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to communication device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with a payment provider. Other applications may include applications used with one or more auxiliary devices of communication device such as touch input applications camera applications microphone applications and or other applications that may receive user input identifying an item. Other applications may include device interfaces and other display modules that may receive input from user and or output information to user . For example other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Communication device may further include database stored to a transitory and or non transitory memory of communication device which may store various applications and data and be utilized during execution of various modules of communication device . Thus database may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with cost analysis module and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of communication device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Database may include information to effectuate the check in such as an identifier for user and or communication device . User input identifying an item may also be stored to database as well as information used by one or more of cost analysis module such as received item information information for additional purchases cost information and or payment information used for a purchase request communicated to merchant device and or payment provider server .

Communication device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with merchant device a wireless beacon and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Merchant device may be maintained for example by a merchant which may offer one or more items and or services for purchase through a merchant location. The merchant location may correspond to a physical location that a user e.g. user may visit in order to purchase one or more items in a transaction. In this regard the merchant location may correspond to a retail storefront or other type of location where one or more items are provided for purchase e.g. a restaurant service location etc. . Merchant device includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with communication device and or payment provider server to facilitate purchase and sale of items and identification of additional purchase required and or recommended during purchase of an identified item by user . In such embodiments merchant device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLES. Although only a single merchant device is shown a plurality of merchant devices may function similarly. While merchant device is discussed as a device local to a merchant location a server at or remote from the merchant location may also be utilized. Thus one or more of the features discussed below e.g. item inventory and or pricing information may be provided by EBAY Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA or STUBHUB Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Additionally in some embodiments one or more of the below described modules processes and or functions may instead be performed by payment provider server or another entity and vice versa.

Merchant device of contains an inventory module a sales module other applications a database and a communication module . Inventory module sales module and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments merchant device may include additional or different modules having specialized hardware and or software as required.

Inventory module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of merchant device to enter update and or maintain inventory information for a merchant associated with merchant device which may correspond to a particular merchant location for merchant device and or the merchant generally e.g. a nationally accessible inventory for a nation wide merchant . In this regard sales module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software to receive inventory information when inventory becomes accessible to the merchant and or at the merchant location enter item information for the available items in the inventory and or update and maintain the inventory as the items are sold as new items are entered and or as old items are replaced. Inventory module may also update item information such as a price for the item available stock amount of the item description of the item discounts or benefits associated with purchase of the item condition of the item or other item parameters. A merchant and or merchant employee may service the inventory and item information records using inventory module . Moreover inventory module may automatically update the records based on sales returns or other processes completed by sales module . Inventory module may also provide inventory and or item information to sales module during a transaction to communication device when generating a purchase request and or viewing and item and additional purchases for the item and or to payment provider server for use in determine additional purchases required when purchasing a selected item by user as well as a total cost for the selected item and the additional purchases. Thus inventory module and or records generated and maintained by inventory module may provide information used to determine a true cost of a selected item based on additionally required recommended purchases and complete a purchase request for the item and one or more of the additional purchases.

Sales module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of merchant device to provide a merchant sales interface permitting a merchant or merchant employee to process and complete sale transactions with user for one or more items selected by user e.g. an item identified in user input by user as well as one or more additional purchases . In this regard sales module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software to access and or receive item information for a sale e.g. item and or inventory information generated and maintained by inventory module . For example in certain embodiments sales module may receive input for the item such as entry of an item number lookup of the item in a menu sales interface scan of a barcode etc. After selecting items for purchase payment module and or sales module may generate a purchase request for the selected item s as discussed herein for example by gathering the item s service s into a transaction and providing a checkout interface for completion of the transaction using payment information for user . The purchase request may be generated from one or more items identified by user as desirable for purchase and from one or more ancillary additional purchases required or recommended when purchasing the identified items. The checkout interface may include an option for user to provide payment for the transaction for example using payment module by submitting a purchase request to sales module e.g. a payment token including a payment account or payment card in a payment token where payment module has information necessary to provide payment through the payment instrument . In other embodiments user may provide the payment instrument to merchant device e.g. a physical payment card or entry of a login to a payment account where sales module generates the purchase request for the transaction with the submitted payment instrument.

Sales module may further generate transaction histories for purchases by one or more users. For example past receipts for past users may be collected and may be stored to database . The transaction histories may be utilized to determine what additional items are commonly purchased alongside or with an item concurrently or at later time s . Thus if batteries power cords or other items are purchased with a new electronic item the transaction histories for the electronic item may identify associated purchases. Similarly home maintenance items e.g. paint may require additional purchases e.g. paintbrushes . Inventory module and or sales module may mark the additional purchases as mandatory e.g. in the case of labor tax or shipping required with the item or as optional e.g. in the case of paintbrushes or batteries where user may already possess the items . Thus sales module may also provide information utilized to determine one or more additional purchases required or recommended when purchasing an item.

In various embodiments merchant device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to merchant device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user of merchant device e.g. a merchant or merchant employee . In various embodiments where not provided by inventory module and or sales module merchant device may include connection and or communication applications which may be utilized to communication information to communication device and or payment provider server .

As discussed herein merchant device and or a wireless beacon at a merchant location for merchant device may communicate with communication device in possession of user through Bluetooth Low Energy BLE LTE Direct or another communication protocol receivable by communication device . When establishing a connection merchant device and or the beacon may emit a communication signal including an identifier e.g. a Universally Unique Identifier UUID e.g. through a connection application of other applications and or through the wireless beacon connected with merchant device . Communication device may execute specialized hardware and or software to passively monitor for the short range wireless communications. When communication device detects the signal and verifies the one or more identifiers both communication device and merchant device the wireless beacon may ramp up in power and establish a connection which may identify user as located at the merchant location.

The request to establish the connection may be communicated as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for communication device . In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication or WiFi communication. Additionally although merchant device and or the wireless beacon may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the UUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices e.g. communication device and establishment of a connection for data transfers.

Additionally merchant device includes database . Database may include inventory and or item information used by payment module and or sales module to generate a transaction such as item information pricing inventory information merchant application interface components and or merchant information. Database may further include purchase requests for the transaction which may be processed by merchant device and or communicated to payment provider server for processing of a payment. Database may also store past user transaction histories and or other information that may be utilized to determine additional purchases for an item and or item costs and a total cost for an item with the additional purchases.

In various embodiments merchant device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate communication device and or payment provider server over network . In various embodiments communication module may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices. Communication module may also communicate with communication device directly using short range wireless communications.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment services and or processing for financial transactions on behalf of users including processing of received payment tokens for a transaction. In this regard payment provider server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with communication device merchant device and or merchant server to facilitate payment for a transaction. In one example payment provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. However in other embodiments payment provider server may be maintained by or include a credit provider financial services provider financial data provider and or other service provider which may provide payment services to user and or the merchant associated with merchant device . Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to payment provider server may be included in merchant device for example features and processes offered by a true cost determination module .

Payment provider server of includes true cost determination module a transaction processing module other applications a database and a network interface component . True cost determination module transaction processing module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware. In other embodiments payment provider server may include additional or different modules having specialized hardware and or software as required.

True cost determination module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of payment provider server to receive user input identifying an item determine additional required or recommended purchases for the item determine a true cost for purchasing the item with one or more of the additional purchases and communicate the additional purchases and or the true cost to communication device . In this regard transaction processing module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software to access received user input and determine an item of interest to user in the user input. The user input may include a visual text or audio representation of the item such that true cost determination module may determine the item of interest to user . Once the item is identified true cost determination module may determine ancillary additional purchases for the item using accessible information.

The information accessible to true cost determination module may include past transaction histories by user and or other users which includes items commonly purchased with an item when additional items are purchased at time of initial purchase within a week periodically each month etc. and details associated with the item purchase e.g. location of user purchasing habits of the user prior usage of purchases by the user or user household etc. . The transaction histories may be receipts or other documents that include what items were purchased in a transaction. Additionally the transaction history may include information about whether the additional purchases are required when purchasing the item or whether the additional purchase is optional and recommended for purchase with the item. For example required costs that may be in a receipt may include shipping tax and or construction or movement labor related to the item. Additional items that may be required may include mounting or installation items items to repair the identified item or ancillary items such as power cords paintbrushes etc. Additional purchases that may be optional may include insurance optionally purchased items optional delivery charges etc. Moreover true cost determination module may determine which items are required and or optional based on knowledge known about user such as if user has previously purchased and installation or use item normally required e.g. batteries television mounting brackets paintbrushes etc. . Thus true cost determination module may receive user information entered by user to communication device or scrapped from a third party source or a payment account for user maintained by payment provider server .

Additional purchases may also be determined using merchant information received from merchant device . Merchant information may include inventory information maintained by inventory module . The inventory information may include information about shipping or restocking fees or other processing fees for items not currently available labor and delivery charges particular to the merchant or other merchant costs and fees particular to the merchant. Additionally item information for the item identified by user for purchase may be included in merchant information or may be accessed from another source. The item information may include a description of the item and or item type brand status of the item age of the item condition of the item or other information about the item. True cost determination module may recommend additional purchases or required to purchase the additional purchases based on the item information such as if an old item may need a repair if an extended warranty is required or suggested etc. The merchant information may also include costs associated with a service provided by the merchant such as costs incurred during a repair e.g. new items and labor costs for installation of the item .

User information for user may also be accessed by true cost determination module which may be utilized to determine the additional purchases. For example personal location health financial or other user information may guide additional purchases either required or recommended by true cost determination module. The user may be associated with a home or work location that the user may have identified an item the user wishes to purchase for use at the location. The item for use at the location may include flooring paint new electrical or plumping new electronics or other item usable at a location. However true cost determination module may determine using county records and or transaction histories or records of the location that use or installation of the item at the location may require additional purchases. For example new flooring may require repairs to a sub flooring while a television may require a particular mounting system or a stud finder to install. Similarly a vehicle user wishing to install a new audio system into may require an update to the vehicle s current electrical system which may be determined using vehicle records or information about the vehicle s systems.

The additional purchases may also be necessitated by the user s financial status include a potential interest rate incurred due to the user s credit rating an interest rate of a credit card used to pay for the item or a cost of overdrawing an account. Thus if user wishes to purchase with credit user may incur additional costs by virtue of utilizing the credit. Additional purchases may also be required due to a user s health condition or physical traits. For example user may require specific seating arrangements medical assistance or other health requirement when making a purchase.

True cost determination module may access pricing information e.g. menus online pricing guides information in inventory or item information etc. from merchant device and or other third party entities. The pricing information may be utilized to determine a cost for the item identified by user for purchase as well as prices for the additional items. Thus using the pricing information true cost determination module may determine a true cost for purchase of the item identified by user in the user input provided by user to true cost determination module . Once the true cost is determined the true cost may be communicated to communication device and or stored to database with the identified item the additional items and costs for each item in the true cost.

Transaction processing module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of payment provider server to receive and or transmit information from communication device and or merchant device for processing and completion of one or more transactions initiated by user . In this regard transaction processing module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software to process a received transaction from communication device and or merchant device by receiving the transaction from communication device and or merchant device with a payment request for a payment for the transaction. The payment request may correspond to a payment token including a payment instrument and identification of the transaction and may be encrypted prior to transmission to transaction processing module to prevent unauthorized receipt of a payment instrument. The payment token may include information corresponding to user identifiers user financial information identifiers transaction information and or other identifiers. Additionally the payment token may include a payment amount and terms of payment for the transaction. Once received transaction processing module may utilize a payment account or financial information e.g. a payment instrument such as a credit debit card bank account etc. of user to render payment for the transaction. Transaction processing module may receive purchase authorizations in certain embodiments and process payments for transaction in accordance with the purchase authorizations. Payment may be made to merchant device and or merchant server using the payment instrument and the terms of the payment request. Additionally transaction processing module may provide transaction histories including receipts to communication device merchant device and or merchant server for completion and documentation of the financial transaction. Such transaction histories may be utilized to determine additional items required with future purchases by user and or other users.

In various embodiments payment provider server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to payment provider server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to user when accessing payment provider server . In various embodiments where not provided by true cost determination module and or transaction processing module other applications may include connection and or communication applications which may be utilized to communication information to communication device and or merchant device .

Additionally payment provider server includes database . As previously discussed user and or the merchant corresponding to merchant device may establish one or more payment accounts with payment provider server . Payment accounts in database may include user merchant information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. User and or the merchant may link to their respective payment accounts through a user merchant and or device identifier. Thus when an identifier is transmitted to payment provider server e.g. from communication device and or merchant device a payment account belonging to user and or the merchant may be found. Payment amounts may be deducted from one payment account and paid to another payment account. In other embodiments user and or the merchant may not have previously established a payment account and may provide other financial information to payment provider server to complete financial transactions as previously discussed. Database may further include information used by true cost determination module such as user input as well as information determined by true cost determination module such as additional purchases and true costs of identified items.

In various embodiments payment provider server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate communication device and or merchant device over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

In environment as users and enter a merchant location to shop for items users and enter through an entrance where they may be determined to be located at merchant location using store beacon . Identification of users and at merchant location may allow a server associated with merchant location to access inventory and or item information for merchant location . As users and browse through an aisle and an aisle users and may utilize communication devices and respectively to enter user input corresponding to one or more devices users and may wish to purchase. For example user may view an item on a shelf of aisle and enter in user input identifying item . The user input may correspond to an image text and or audio input. Similarly user may view an item on a shelf of aisle and enter in user input identifying item

A server that may provide true cost analysis for items and and may access information for merchant location and or other available information for items and e.g. item information for items and or available from a third party and or user information for users and . Information for merchant location may include information available from merchant device such as information for an inventory available at merchant location . For example inventory may include stock information for items and as well as pricing information for items and . The server may utilize the information in order to determine a true cost for items and . Once determined the true cost for items and may be communicated to communication devices and respectively. Users and may then view the true costs for items and respectively where the true costs for items and may include additional purchases for items and . Users and may then complete a purchase for items and respectively with a merchant employee utilizing merchant device . The purchases may include one or more of the additional purchases associated with items and

Communication device executes a cost analysis module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to cost analysis module of . In this regard cost analysis module may be utilized to process user input identifying an item . A user of communication device may enter user input using a device interface or associated device such as a keyboard touch screen microphone and or camera of communication device . Additionally the user may input user merchant information for example user personal financial information and or information that may identify the merchant and or merchant location. Once additional purchases and or a true cost for item is determined item true cost may populate which may include item information required and or potential ancillary purchases and a total cost for item with required and or potential ancillary purchases .

Merchant device executes an inventory module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to inventory module of . In this regard inventory module includes information used to determine item true cost shown in cost analysis module . Inventory module includes merchant inventory information for a merchant of merchant device which may include inventory levels and item costs . Inventory module may provide merchant inventory information to payment provider server for processing with user input and user merchant information .

Thus payment provider server executes a true cost determination module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to true cost determination module of . In this regard true cost determination module includes received user input of items which may include item . Once item is identified as an item the user of communication device is interested in true cost determination module may access item information which may include a description for item and a cost for item . True cost determination module may determine description and or cost using cost information which may include merchant inventory information from inventory module . Additionally true cost determination module may access user merchant information having associated user costs e.g. costs for the particular user of communication device such as health requirements repairs to a user location etc. . User merchant information may also include associated merchant costs accessed by true cost determination module e.g. shipping tax labor restocking or other cost .

Using the above information true cost determination module may determine ancillary purchases . Ancillary purchases may include additional items which may be required or recommended with item . Additionally additional items may include reasons for purchases such as why the additional items are required or recommended for purchase. Ancillary purchases also includes other types of purchases or costs such as tax shipping insurance additional services e.g. delivery employee assistance etc. and labor .

At step user input identifying an item available from a merchant is received via a network interface component. The user input may be received from a communication device which may comprise one of a smart phone and a wearable computing device. The user input may comprise at least one of an image comprising a visual representation the item user text input comprising textual identification of the item and voice input comprising voice identification of the item. At least one ancillary purchase associated with the item is determined by a true cost determination module comprising at least one hardware processor wherein the at least one ancillary purchase is recommended to be purchased when purchasing the item at step . The item may comprise a first item thus the at least one ancillary purchase may comprise at least one second item recommended to be purchased with the first item.

User information for the user may be received by the network interface component wherein the true cost determination module accesses the user information to determine the at least one second item. The user information may be received from the communication of the user and comprise user personal financial information. The user information may comprise one of a home location for the user and a work location for the user. Thus the true cost determination module may access the location information for the one of the home location and the work location from a third party entity associated with the one of the home location and the work location and the at least one second item may be recommended for use of the first item at the one of the home location and the work location. For example the at least one second item may comprise at least one of labor for use of the first item at the location insurance for use of the first item an installation item for use of the first item and a repair for use of the first item. The location information may comprise at least one of a building history and a county record for the one of the home location and the work location and the true cost determination module may determine the at least one ancillary purchase using the at least one of building history and the county record.

In various embodiments merchant information for the merchant may be received by the network interface component wherein the true cost determination module accesses the merchant information to determine the at least one second item. The merchant information may comprise shipping information for the first item to the merchant inventory information for the first item at the merchant local and state tax information for the merchant insurance information for the merchant and labor information for the first item with the merchant. Additionally the true cost determination module may determine the at least one ancillary purchase using other user purchases purchased with the first item. The true cost determination module may further determine the other user purchases using purchase histories with merchant similar location information for a location for the user a building history for the location of the user a county record for the location of the user similar user information associated with the user and similar purchase times for the item by the user. The true cost determination module may also access inventory information for the merchant and determine the at least one additional purchase uses the inventory information.

At step cost information for the item and the at least one ancillary purchase is accessed by the true cost determination module. A total purchase price for the item and the at least one ancillary purchase is determined by the true cost determination module at step . The total purchase price may be communicated to a communication device of a user associated with the user input via the network interface component. A purchase request for the total purchase price may be received from the communication device via the network interface component and a transaction processing module may processes the purchase request to provide a payment to the merchant for the item and the at least one additional purchase. Additionally a transaction history may be provided to at least one of the user and the merchant by the transaction processing module.

Thus when a user expresses interest in an item such as by sending information about the item to a service provider analysis is done both generally about the item and specific to the user or similar users to determine additional costs the user may incur with the item. The additional costs may include items needed at time of purchase or at later date s which may be based on the user s location house work previous purchases related to the item previous purchases on insurance or declining insurance typical usage of the item or a similar item by the user or similar users e.g. heavy use light use use in harsher environments user typically does all scheduled maintenances or declines and other factors as discussed herein. As a result the user is presented with a more accurate cost for an item which may be more than just the listed price for the item. This may then enable the user to make a more informed decision about whether to purchase the identified item.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another communication device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example in store purchases have been described but advantages discussed herein may also be achieved through online purchases. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

