---

title: Methods and systems for arrhythmia tracking and scoring
abstract: A dashboard centered around arrhythmia or atrial fibrillation tracking is provided. The dashboard includes a heart or cardiac health score that can be calculated in response to data from the user such as their ECG and other personal information and cardiac health influencing factors. The dashboard also provides to the user recommendations or goals, such as daily goals, for the user to meet and thereby improve their heart or cardiac health score. These goals and recommendations may be set by the user or a medical professional and routinely updated as his or her heart or cardiac health score improves or otherwise changes. The dashboard is generally displayed from an application provided on a smartphone or tablet computer of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572499&OS=09572499&RS=09572499
owner: ALIVECOR, INC.
number: 09572499
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150603
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 569 513 filed Dec. 12 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 915 113 filed Dec. 12 2013 which application is incorporated herein by reference U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 953 616 filed Mar. 14 2014 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 969 019 filed Mar. 21 2014 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 970 551 filed Mar. 26 2014 which application is incorporated herein by reference and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 014 516 filed Jun. 19 2014 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to medical devices systems and methods. In particular the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for managing health and disease such as cardiac diseases including arrhythmia and atrial fibrillation.

Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in the world. In 2008 30 of all global death can be attributed to cardiovascular diseases. It is also estimated that by 2030 over 23 million people will die from cardiovascular diseases annually. Cardiovascular diseases are prevalent in the populations of high income and low income countries alike.

Arrhythmia is a cardiac condition in which the electrical activity of the heart is irregular or is faster tachycardia or slower bradycardia than normal. Although many arrhythmias are not life threatening some can cause cardiac arrest and even sudden cardiac death. Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac arrhythmia. In atrial fibrillation electrical conduction through the ventricles of heart is irregular and disorganized. While atrial fibrillation may cause no symptoms it is often associated with palpitations shortness of breath fainting chest pain or congestive heart failure. Atrial fibrillation is also associated with atrial clot formation which is associated with clot migration and stroke.

Atrial fibrillation is typically diagnosed by taking an electrocardiogram ECG of a subject which shows a characteristic atrial fibrillation waveform

To treat atrial fibrillation a patient may take medications to slow heart rate or modify the rhythm of the heart. Patients may also take anticoagulants to prevent atrial clot formation and stroke. Patients may even undergo surgical intervention including cardiac ablation to treat atrial fibrillation.

Often a patient with arrhythmia or atrial fibrillation is monitored for extended periods of time to manage the disease. For example a patient may be provided with a Holter monitor or other ambulatory electrocardiography device to continuously monitor a patient s heart rate and rhythm for at least 24 hours.

Current ambulatory electrocardiography devices such as Holter monitors however are typically bulky and difficult for subjects to administer without the aid of a medical professional. For example the use of Holter monitors requires a patient to wear a bulky device on their chest and precisely place a plurality of electrode leads on precise locations on their chest. These requirements can impede the activities of the subject including their natural movement bathing and showering. Once an ECG is generated the ECG is sent to the patient s physician who may analyze the ECG and provide a diagnosis and other recommendations. Currently this process often must be performed through hospital administrators and health management organizations and many patients do not receive feedback in an expedient manner.

Disclosed herein are devices systems and methods for managing health and disease such as cardiac diseases including arrhythmia and atrial fibrillation. In particular a cardiac disease and or rhythm management system according to aspects of the present disclosure allows a user to conveniently document their electrocardiograms ECG and other biometric data and receive recommendation s and or goal s generated by the system or by a physician in response to the documented data. The cardiac disease and or rhythm management system can be loaded onto a local computing device of the user where biometric data can be conveniently entered onto the system while the user may continue to use the local computing device for other purposes. A local computing device may comprise for example a computing device worn on the body e.g. a head worn computing device such as a Google Glass a wrist worn computing device such as a Samsung Galaxy Gear Smart Watch etc. a tablet computer e.g. an Apple iPad an Apple iPod a Google Nexus tablet a Samsung Galaxy Tab a Microsoft Surface etc. a smartphone e.g. an Apple iPhone a Google Nexus phone a Samsung Galaxy phone etc. 

A portable computing device or an accessory thereof may be configured to continuously measure one or more physiological signals of a user. The heart rate of the user may be continuously measured. The continuously measurement may be made with a wrist or arm band or a patch in communication with the portable computing device. The portable computing device may have loaded onto e.g. onto a non transitory computer readable medium of the computing device and executing thereon e.g. by a processor of the computing device an application for one or more of receiving the continuously measured physiological signal s analyzing the physiological signal s sending the physiological signal s to a remote computer for further analysis and storage and displaying to the user analysis of the physiological signal s . The heart rate may be measured by one or more electrodes provided on the computing device or accessory a motion sensor provided on the computing device or accessory or by imaging and lighting sources provided on the computing device or accessory. In response to the continuous measurement and recordation of the heart rate of the user parameters such as heart rate HR heart rate variability R R variability or HRV and heart rate turbulence HRT may be determined. These parameters and further parameters may be analyzed to detect and or predict one or more of atrial fibrillation tachycardia bradycardia bigeminy trigeminy or other cardiac conditions. A quantitative heart health score may also be generated from the determined parameters. One or more of the heart health score detected heart conditions or recommended user action items based on the heart health score may be displayed to the user through a display of the portable computing device.

The biometric data may be uploaded onto a remote server where one or more cardiac technicians or cardiac specialists may analyze the biometric data and provide ECG interpretations diagnoses recommendations such as lifestyle recommendations and or goals such as lifestyle goals for subject. These interpretations diagnoses recommendations and or goals may be provided to the subject through the cardiac disease and or rhythm management system on their local computing device. The cardiac disease and or rhythm management system may also include tools for the subject to track their biometric data and the associated interpretations diagnoses recommendations and or goals from the cardiac technicians or specialists.

An aspect of the present disclosure includes a dashboard centered around arrhythmia or atrial fibrillation tracking. The dashboard includes a heart score that can be calculated in response to data from the user such as their ECG and other personal information such as age gender height weight body fat disease risks etc. The main driver of this heart score will often be the incidence of the user s atrial fibrillation. Other drivers and influencing factors include the aforementioned personal information. The heart score will be frequently related to output from a machine learning algorithm that combines and weights many if not all of influencing factors.

The dashboard will often display and track many if not all of the influencing factors. Some of these influencing factors may be entered directly by the user or may be input by the use of other mobile health monitoring or sensor devices. The user may also use the dashboard as an atrial fibrillation or arrhythmia management tool to set goals to improve their heart score.

The dashboard may also be accessed by the user s physician e.g. the physician prescribing the system to the user another regular physician or other physician to allow the physician to view the ECG and biometric data of the user view the influencing factors of the user and or provide additional ECG interpretations diagnoses recommendations and or goals.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for managing cardiac health. Biometric data of a user may be received. A cardiac health score may be generated in response to the received biometric data. One or more recommendations or goals for improving the generated cardiac health score may be displayed to the user. The biometric data may comprise one or more of an electrocardiogram ECG dietary information stress level activity level gender height weight age body fat percentage blood pressure results from imaging scans blood chemistry values or genotype data. The recommendations or goals may be updated in response to the user meeting the displayed recommendations or goals. The user may be alerted if one or more recommendations or goals have not been completed by the user for example if the user has not completed one or more recommendations or goals for the day.

The analysis applied may be through one or more of the generation of a heart health score or the application of one or more machine learning algorithms. The machine learning algorithms may be trained using population data of heart rate. The population data may be collected from a plurality of the heart rate monitoring enabled portable computing devices or accessories provided to a plurality of users. The training population of users may have been previously identified as either having atrial fibrillation or not having atrial fibrillation prior to the generation of data for continuously measured heart rate. The data may be used to train the machine learning algorithm to extract one or more features from any continuously measured heart rate data and identify atrial fibrillation or other conditions therefrom. After the machine learning algorithm has been trained the machine learning algorithm may recognize atrial fibrillation from the continuously measured heart rate data of a new user who has not yet been identified as having atrial fibrillation or other heart conditions. One or more of training population data or the trained machine learning algorithm may be provided on a central computing device e.g. be stored on a non transitory computer readable medium of a server which is in communication with the local computing devices of the users and the application executed thereon e.g. through an Internet or an intranet connection. 

A set of instructions for managing cardiac health may be downloaded from the Internet. These set of instructions may be configured to automatically generate the cardiac health score. The cardiac health score may be generated using a machine learning algorithm. The machine learning algorithm may generate the cardiac health score of the user and or the recommendations and or goals in response to biometric data from a plurality of users. The set of instructions may be configured to allow a medical professional to access the received biometric data. The cardiac health score and or the recommendations and or goals may be generated by the medical professional.

The set of instructions may be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium of one or more of a body worn computer a tablet computer a smartphone or other computing device. These set of instructions may be capable of being executed by the computing device. When executed the set of instructions may cause the computing device to perform any of the methods described herein including the method for managing cardiac health described above.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a system for managing cardiac health. The system may comprise a sensor for recording biometric data of a user and a local computing device receiving the biometric data from the sensor. The local computing device may be configured to display a cardiac health score and one or more recommendations or goals for the user to improve the cardiac health score in response to the received biometric data.

The system may further comprise a remote server receiving the biometric data from the local computing device. One or more of the local computing device or the remote server may comprise a machine learning algorithm which generates one or more of the cardiac health score or the one or more recommendations or goals for the user. The remote server may be configured for access by a medical professional. Alternatively or in combination one or more of the cardiac health score or one or more recommendations or goals may be generated by the medical professional and provided to the local computing device through the remote server.

The sensor may comprise one or more of a hand held electrocardiogram ECG sensor a wrist worn activity sensor a blood pressure monitor a personal weighing scale a body fat percentage sensor a personal thermometer a pulse oximeter sensor or any mobile health monitor or sensor. Often the sensor is configured to be in wireless communication with the local computing device. The local computing device comprises one or more of a personal computer a laptop computer a palmtop computer a tablet computer a smartphone a body worn computer or the like. The biometric data may comprise one or more of an electrocardiogram ECG dietary information stress level activity level gender height weight age body fat percentage or blood pressure.

Other physiological signals or parameters such as physical activity heart sounds blood pressure blood oxygenation blood glucose temperature activity breath composition weight hydration levels an electroencephalograph EEG an electromyography EMG a mechanomyogram MMG an electrooculogram EOG etc. may also be monitored. The user may also input user related health data such as age height weight body mass index BMI diet sleep levels rest levels or stress levels. One or more of these physiological signals and or parameters may be combined with the heart rate data to detect atrial fibrillation or other conditions. The machine learning algorithm may be configured to identify atrial fibrillation or other conditions in response to heart rate data in combination with one or more of the other physiological signals and or parameters for instance. Triggers or alerts may be provided to the user in response to the measured physiological signals and or parameters. Such triggers or alerts may notify the user to take corrective steps to improve their health or monitor other vital signs or physiological parameters. The application loaded onto and executed on the portable computing device may provide a health dash board integrating and displaying heart rate information heart health parameters determined in response to the heart rate information other physiological parameters and trends thereof and recommended user action items or steps to improve health.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Devices systems and methods for managing health and disease such as cardiac diseases including arrhythmia and atrial fibrillation are disclosed. In particular a cardiac disease and or rhythm management system according to aspects of the present disclosure allows a user to conveniently document their electrocardiograms ECG and other biometric data and receive recommendation s and or goal s generated by the system or by a physician in response to the documented data.

The term atrial fibrillation denoting a type of cardiac arrhythmia may also be abbreviated in either the figures or description herein as AFIB. 

The local computing device may be coupled to one or more biometric sensors. For example the local computing device may be coupled to a handheld ECG monitor . The handheld ECG monitor may be in the form of a smartphone case as described in co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 796 188 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 509 882 Ser. Nos. 13 107 738 13 420 520 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 301 232 Ser. Nos. 13 752 048 13 964 490 13 969 446 14 015 303 and 14 076 076 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments the handheld ECG monitor may be a handheld sensor coupled to the local computing device with an intermediate protective case adapter as described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 874 806 filed Sep. 6 2013 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The handheld ECG monitor may be used by the user to take an ECG measurement which the handheld ECG monitor may send to the local computing device by connection . The connection may comprise a wired or wireless connection e.g. a WiFi connection a Bluetooth connection a NFC connection an ultrasound signal transmission connection etc. . The mobile software application may be configured to interface with the one or more biometric sensors including the handheld ECG monitor .

The local computing device may be coupled to a wrist worn biometric sensor through a wired or wireless connection e.g. a WiFi connection a Bluetooth connection a NFC connection an ultrasound signal transmission connection etc. . The wrist worn biometric sensor may comprise an activity monitor such as those available from Fitbit Inc. of San Francisco Calif. or a Nike FuelBand available from Nike Inc. of Oregon. The wrist worn biometric sensor may also comprise an ECG sensor such as that described in co owned U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 872 555 the contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The local computing device may be coupled to other biometric devices as well such as a personal scale or a blood pressure monitor . The blood pressure monitor may communicate with the local device through a wired or wireless connection e.g. a WiFi connection a Bluetooth connection a NFC connection an ultrasound signal transmission connection etc. .

The local computing device may directly communicate with a remote server or cloud based service through the Internet via a wired or wireless connection e.g. a WiFi connection a cellular network connection a DSL Internet connection a cable Internet connection a fiber optic Internet connection a T1 Internet connection a T3 Internet connection etc. . Alternatively or in combination the local computing device may first couple with another local computing device of the user such as a personal computer of the user which then communicates with the remote server or cloud based service via a wired or wireless connection e.g. a WiFi connection a cellular network connection a DSL Internet connection a cable Internet connection a fiber optic Internet connection a T1 Internet connection a T3 Internet connection etc. The local computing device may comprise software or other interface for managing biometric data collected by the local computing device or the biometric data dashboard loaded on the local computing device .

Other users may access the patient data through the remote server or cloud based service . These other users may include the user s regular physician the user s prescribing physician who prescribed the system for use by the user other cardiac technicians other cardiac specialists and system administrators and managers. For example a first non subject user may access the remote server or cloud based service with a personal computer or other computing device through an Internet connection e.g. a WiFi connection a cellular network connection a DSL Internet connection a cable Internet connection a fiber optic Internet connection a T1 Internet connection a T3 Internet connection etc. . Alternatively or in combination the first non subject user may access the remote server or cloud based service with a local computing device such as a tablet computer or smartphone through an Internet connection . The tablet computer or smartphone of the first non subject user may interface with the personal computer through a wired or wireless connection e.g. a WiFi connection a Bluetooth connection a NFC connection an ultrasound signal transmission connection etc. . Further a second non subject user may access the remote server or cloud based service with a personal computer or other computing device through an Internet connection e.g. a WiFi connection a cellular network connection a DSL Internet connection a cable Internet connection a fiber optic Internet connection a T1 Internet connection a T3 Internet connection etc. . Further a third non subject user may access the remote server or cloud based service with a tablet computer or smartphone through an Internet connection e.g. a WiFi connection a cellular network connection a DSL Internet connection a cable Internet connection a fiber optic Internet connection a T1 Internet connection a T3 Internet connection etc. . Further a fourth non subject user may access the remote server or cloud based service with a personal computer or other computing device through an Internet connection e.g. a WiFi connection a cellular network connection a DSL Internet connection a cable Internet connection a fiber optic Internet connection a T1 Internet connection a T3 Internet connection etc. . The first non subject user may comprise an administrator or manager of the system . The second non subject user may comprise a cardiac technician. The third non subject user may comprise a regular or prescribing physician of the user or subject. And the fourth non subject user may comprise a cardiac specialist who is not the user or subject s regular or prescribing physician. Generally many if not all of the communication between various devices computers servers and cloud based services will be secure and HIPAA compliant.

Aspects of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for detecting and or predicting atrial fibrillation or other arrhythmias of a user by applying one or more machine learning based algorithms. A portable computing device or an accessory usable with the portable computing device may provide R R intervals and or raw heart rate signals as input to an application loaded and executed on the portable computing device. The raw heart rate signals may be provided using an electrocardiogram ECG in communication with the portable computing device or accessory such as described in U.S. Ser. No. 13 964 490 filed Aug. 12 2013 Ser. No. 13 420 520 filed Mar. 14 2013 Ser. No. 13 108 738 filed May 16 2011 and Ser. No. 12 796 188 filed Jun. 8 2010. Alternatively or in combination the raw heart rate signals may be provided using an on board heart rate sensor of the portable computing device or by using photoplethysmography implemented by an imaging source and a light source of the portable computing device. Alternatively or in combination the raw heart rate signals may be from an accessory device worn by the user or attached to the user e.g. a patch and which is in communication with the portable computing device. Such wearable accessory devices may include Garmin s Vivofit Fitness Band Fitbit Polar Heart Rate Monitors New Balance s Balance Watch Basis B1 Band MIO Alpha Withings Pulse LifeCORE Heart Rate Monitor strap and the like.

R R intervals may be extracted from the raw heart rate signals. The R R intervals may be used to calculate heart rate variability HRV which may be analyzed in many ways such as using time domain methods geometric methods frequency domain methods non linear methods long term correlations or the like as known in the art. Alternatively or in combination the R R intervals may be used for non traditional measurements such as i determining the interval between every other or every three R waves to evaluate for bigeminy or trigeminy or ii the generation of a periodic autoregressive moving average PARMA .

The machine learning based algorithm s may allow software application s to identify patterns and or features of the R R interval data and or the raw heart rate signals or data to predict and or detect atrial fibrillation or other arrhythmias. These extracted and labelled features may be features of HRV as analyzed in the time domain such as SDNN the standard deviation of NN intervals calculated over a 24 hour period SDANN the standard deviation of the average NN intervals calculated over short periods RMSSD the square root of the mean of the sum of the squares of the successive differences between adjacent NNs SDSD the standard deviation of the successive differences between adjacent NNs NN50 the number of pairs of successive NNs that differ by more than 50 ms pNN50 the proportion of NN50 divided by total number of NNs NN20 the number of pairs of successive NNs that differ by more than 20 ms pNN20 the proportion of NN20 divided by the total number of NNs EBC estimated breath cycle NNx the number of pairs of successive NNs that differ by more than x ms pNNx the proportion of NNx divided by the number of NNs or other features known in the art. Alternatively or in combination the extracted and labelled features may comprise a nonlinear transform of R R ratio or R R ratio statistics with an adaptive weighting factor. Alternatively or in combination the extracted and labelled features may be features of HRV as analyzed geometrically such as the sample density distribution of NN interval durations the sample density distribution of differences between adjacent NN intervals a Lorenz plot of NN or RR intervals degree of skew of the density distribution kurtosis of the density distribution or other features known in the art. Alternatively or in combination the extracted and labelled features may be features of HRV in the frequency domain such as the power spectral density of different frequency bands including a high frequency band HF from 0.15 to 0.4 Hz low frequency band LF from 0.04 to 0.15 Hz and the very low frequency band VLF from 0.0033 to 0.04 Hz or other frequency domain features as known in the art. Alternatively or in combination the extracted and labelled features may be non linear features such as the geometric shapes of a Poincar plot the correlation dimension the nonlinear predictability the pointwise correlation dimension the approximate entropy and other features as known in the art. Other features from the raw heart rate signals and data may also be analyzed. These features include for example a generated autoregressive AR model a ratio of consecutive RR intervals a normalized ratio of consecutive RR intervals a standard deviation of every 2 3 or 4 RR intervals or a recurrence plot of the raw HR signals among others.

The features of the analysis and or measurement may be selected extracted and labelled to predict atrial fibrillation or other arrhythmias in real time e.g. by performing one or more machine learning operation. Such operations can be selected from among an operation of ranking the feature s classifying the feature s labelling the feature s predicting the feature s and clustering the feature s . Alternatively or in combination the extracted features may be labelled and saved for offline training of a machine learning algorithm or set of machine learning operations. For example the operations may be selected from any of those above. Any number of machine learning algorithms or methods may be trained to identify atrial fibrillation or other conditions such as arrhythmias. These may include the use of decision tree learning such as with a random forest association rule learning artificial neural network inductive logic programming support vector machines clustering Bayesian networks reinforcement learning representation learning similarity and metric learning sparse dictionary learning or the like.

The systems and methods for detecting and or predicting atrial fibrillation or other conditions such as arrhythmias described herein may be implemented as software provided as a set of instructions on a non transitory computer readable medium. A processor of a computing device e.g. a tablet computer a smartphone a smart watch a smart band a wearable computing device or the like may execute this set of instructions to receive the input data and detect and or predict atrial fibrillation therefrom. The software may be downloaded from an online application distribution platform such as the Apple iTunes or App Store Google Play Amazon App Store and the like. A display of the computing device may notify the user whether atrial fibrillation or other arrhythmias has been detected and or if further measurements are required e.g. to perform a more accurate analysis . The software may be loaded on and executed by the portable computing device of the user such as with the processor of the computing device.

The machine learning based algorithms or operations for predicting and or detecting atrial fibrillation or other arrhythmias may be provided as a service from a remote server which may interact or communicate with a client program provided on the computing device of the user e.g. as a mobile app. The interaction or communication may be through an Application Program Interface API . The API may provide access to machine learning operations for ranking clustering classifying and predicting from the R R interval and or raw heart rate data for example.

The machine learning based algorithms or operations provided through a remote server and or on a local application on a local computing device may operate on learn from and make analytical predictions from R R interval data or raw heart rate data e.g. from a population of users. The R R interval or raw heart rate data may be provided by the local computing device itself or an associated accessory such as described in U.S. Ser. No. 13 964 490 filed Aug. 12 2013 Ser. No. 13 420 520 filed Mar. 14 2013 Ser. No. 13 108 738 filed May 16 2011 and Ser. No. 12 796 188 filed Jun. 8 2010. Thus atrial fibrillation and other arrhythmias or other heart conditions can be in a convenient user accessible way.

Although the above steps show methods and in accordance with many embodiments a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the teaching described herein. The steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or deleted. Some of the steps may comprise sub steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as beneficial to the user or subject.

One or more of the steps of method and may be performed with circuitry for example one or more of a processor or a logic circuitry such as a programmable array logic for a field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to provide one or more of the steps of methods and and the program may comprise program instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium or memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array for example.

Aspects of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for monitoring one or more physiological parameters and providing a trigger message to the user if the one or more physiological parameter meets a pre determined or learned threshold s . Two or more of the physiological parameters may be combined to provide a trigger message. That is a particular trigger message may be provided to the user if two or more pre determined threshold s for the physiological parameter s are met.

Table 1 below shows an exemplary table of physiological parameters that may be measured left column features of interest to be measured or threshold types to be met middle column and exemplary trigger messages right column .

The machine learning based algorithms or operations as described herein may be used to determine the appropriate trigger thresholds in response to the raw physiological data input and or user input physiological parameters e.g. age height weight gender etc. . Features of the raw physiological data input may be selected extracted labelled clustered and or analyzed. These processed features may then be analyzed using one or more machine learning operation such as ranking the feature s classifying the feature s predicting the feature s and clustering the feature s . The various machine learning algorithms described herein may be used to analyze the features to detect and predict health conditions and generate recommendations or user action items to improve the health of the user. For instance the machine learning algorithms may be trained to identify atrial fibrillation or other conditions in response to the non heart rate physiological parameter s such as age gender body mass index BMI activity level diet and others in combination with the raw heart rate data and HRV that can be extracted therefrom.

The systems and methods for monitoring one or more physiological parameters and providing a trigger message to the user if the one or more physiological parameter meets a pre determined threshold s described herein may be implemented as software provided as a set of instructions on a non transitory computer readable medium. A processor of a computing device e.g. a tablet computer a smartphone a smart watch a smart band a wearable computing device or the like may execute this set of instructions to receive the input data and detect and or predict atrial fibrillation therefrom. The software may be downloaded from an online application distribution platform such as the Apple iTunes or App Store Google Play Amazon App Store and the like. The software may be loaded on and executed by the portable computing device of the user such as with the processor of the computing device. The software may also provide both the triggering application described herein and the heart rate monitoring and analysis for detecting atrial fibrillation or other heart conditions described herein.

In an embodiment a method and system for longitudinal monitoring of a patient s or any consumer s after referred to as patient health using various ECG monitoring devices is described herein. The ECG monitoring devices generate ECG signal data which can be stored in a database for further analysis. The ECG data which can be stored in a database along with other patient information can be analyzed by a processing device such as a computer or server using various algorithms.

Various ECG monitoring or recording devices hereinafter referred to as ECG monitoring devices can be used to record the ECG data. For example the ECG monitoring device can be a handheld portable or wearable smartphone based device as described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 301 232 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes. A smartphone based device or a device having wireless or cellular telecommunication capabilities can transmit the ECG data to a database or server directly through the internet. These types of ECG monitoring devices as well as other ECG monitoring devices include portable devices wearable recording devices event recorders and Holter monitors. Clinical or hospital based ECG recording devices can also be used and integrated into the system. Such devices may be able to transmit stored ECG data through a phone line or wirelessly through the internet or cellular network or may need to be sent to a data collection center for data collection and processing. The ECG data can be tagged with the type of ECG monitoring device used to record the data by for example including it in metadata for indexing and searching purposes.

The ECG monitoring devices can be single lead devices or multiple lead devices where each lead generally terminates with an electrode. Some embodiments may even be leadless and have electrodes that are integrated with the body or housing of the device and therefore have a predetermined relationship with each other such as a fixed spacing apart from each other. The orientation and positioning of the single lead in a single lead device or of each lead of the multiple lead device or of the electrodes of the leadless device can be transmitted with the ECG data. The lead and or electrode placement may be predetermined and specified to the patient in instructions for using the device. For example the patient may be instructed to position the leads and or electrodes with references to one or more anatomical landmarks on the patient s torso. Any deviation from the predetermined lead and or electrode placement can be notated by the patient or user when transmitting the ECG data. The lead and electrode placement may be imaged using a digital camera which may be integrated with a smart phone and transmitted with the ECG data and stored in the database. The lead and electrode placement may be marked on the patient s skin for imaging and for assisting subsequent placement of the leads and electrodes. The electrodes can be attached to the skin using conventional methods which may include adhesives and conducting gels or the electrodes may simply be pressed into contact with the patient s skin. The lead and electrode placement may be changed after taking one recording or after recording for a predetermined or variable amount of time. The ECG data can be tagged with the numbers of leads and or electrodes and the lead and or electrode placement including whether adhesives and or conducting gels were used. Again this information can be including in metadata for indexing and searching purposes.

The ECG signal data can be continuously recorded over a predetermined or variable length of time. Continuous ECG recording devices can record for up to 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 or 14 days. Alternatively or additionally the ECG data can be recorded on demand by the patient at various discrete times such as when the patient feels chest pains or experiences other unusual or abnormal feelings. The on demand ECG recorder can have a memory buffer that can record a predetermined amount of ECG data on a rolling basis and when activated by the patient to record a potential event a predetermined amount of ECG data can be saved and or transmitted. The predetermined amount of ECG data can include a predetermined amount of ECG data before activation and a predetermined amount of ECG data after activation such that a window of ECG data is captured that encompasses the potential event. The time period between ECG recordings may be regular or irregular. For example the time period may be once a day once a week once a month or at some other predetermined interval. The ECG recordings may be taken at the same or different times of days under similar or different circumstances as described herein. One or more baseline ECGs can be recorded while the patient is free of symptoms. The baseline ECGs can be periodically recorded and predetermined intervals and or on demand. The same ECG recording device or different ECG recording devices may be used to record the various ECG of a particular patient. All this information may be tagged to or associated with the ECG data by for example including it in the metadata for indexing and searching purposes.

The ECG data can be time stamped and can be annotated by the patient or health care provider to describe the circumstances during which the ECG was recorded preceding the ECG recording and or following the ECG recording. For example the system and device can have an user interface for data entry that allows the patient to enter in notes regarding the conditions and circumstances surrounding the ECG recording. This additional data can be also included as metadata for indexing and searching purposes. For example location food drink medication and or drug consumption exercise rest sleep feelings of stress anxiety pain or other unusual or abnormal feelings or any other circumstance that may affect the patient s ECG signal can all be inputted into the device smart phone computer or other computing device to be transmitted to the server or database along with the ECG data. The annotated data can also include the patient s identity or unique identifier as well as various patient characteristics including age sex race ethnicity and relevant medical history. The annotated data can also be time stamped or tagged so that the ECG data can be matched or correlated with the activity or circumstance of interest. This also allows comparison of the ECG before after and during the activity or circumstance so that the effect on the ECG can be determined.

The ECG data and the associated metadata can be transmitted from the device to a server and database for storage and analysis. The transmission can be real time at regular intervals such as hourly daily weekly and any interval in between or can be on demand. The metadata facilitates the searching organizing analyzing and retrieving of ECG data. Comparison and analysis of a single patient s ECG data can be performed and or comparison of ECG data between patients can be performed. For example the metadata can be used to identify and select a subset of ECG data where an activity or circumstance such as the taking of medication occurred within a predetermined amount of time to the ECG data. The components of the ECG signal data such as the P wave T wave and QRS complex and the like the amplitudes of the components the ratios between the components the width of the components and the delay or time separation between the components can be extracted compared analyzed and stored as ECG features. For example the P wave and heart rate can be extracted and analyzed to identify atrial fibrillation where the absence of P waves and or an irregular heart rate may indicate atrial fibrillation. The extracted ECG features can also be included in the metadata for indexing and searching.

The changes in the ECG signal over time in view of the activities and circumstances can be compared with changes over time and circumstances observed within a database of ECG s. Comparisons may include any comparison of data derived from any other ECG signal or any database of ECG s or any subset of ECG data or with data derived from any database of ECG s. Changes in any feature of the ECG signal over time may be used for a relative comparison with similar changes in any ECG database or with data derived from an ECG database. The ECG data from the baseline ECG and the ECG data from a potential adverse event can be compared to determine the changes or deviations from baseline values. In addition both the baseline ECG and the ECG data recorded from the patient can be compared to one or more predetermined template ECGs which can represent a normal healthy condition as well as various diseased conditions such as myocardial infarction and arrhythmias.

The comparisons and analysis described herein can be used to draw conclusions and insights into the patient s health status which includes potential health issues that the patient may be experiencing at the time of measurement or at future times. Conclusions and determinations may be predictive of future health conditions or diagnostic of conditions that the patient already has. The conclusions and determinations may also include insights into the effectiveness or risks associated with drugs or medications that the patient may be taking have taken or may be contemplating taking in the future. In addition the comparisons and analysis can be used to determine behaviors and activities that may reduce or increase risk of an adverse event. Based on the comparisons and analysis described herein the ECG data can be classified according to a level of risk of being an adverse event. For example the ECG data can be classified as normal low risk moderate risk high risk and or abnormal. The normal and abnormal designation may require health care professional evaluation diagnosis and or confirmation.

Diagnosis and determination of an abnormality an adverse event or a disease state by physicians and other health care professionals can be transmitted to the servers and database to be tagged with and associated with the corresponding ECG data. The diagnosis and determination may be based on analysis of ECG data or may be determined using other tests or examination procedures. Professional diagnosis and determinations can be extracted from the patient s electronic health records can be entered into the system by the patient or can be entered into the system by the medical professional. The conclusions and determinations of the system can be compared with actual diagnosis and determinations from medical professions to validate and or refine the machine learning algorithms used by the system. The time of occurrence and duration of the abnormality adverse event or disease state can also be included in the database such that the ECG data corresponding with the occurrence and or the ECG data preceding and or following the abnormality adverse event or disease state can be associated together and analyzed. The length of time preceding or following the abnormality may be predetermined and be up to 1 to 30 days or greater than 1 to 12 months. Analysis of the time before the abnormality adverse event or disease state may allow the system to identify patterns or correlations of various ECG features that precede the occurrence of the abnormality adverse event or disease state thereby providing advance detection or warning of the abnormality adverse event or disease state. Analysis of the time following the abnormality adverse event or disease state can provide information regarding the efficacy of treatments and or provide the patient or physician information regarding disease progression such as whether the patient s condition in improving worsening or staying the same. The diagnosis and determination can also be used for indexing by for example including it in the metadata associated with the corresponding ECG data.

As described herein various parameters may be included in the database along with the ECG data. These may include the patient s age gender weight blood pressure medications behaviors habits activities food consumption drink consumption drugs medical history and other factors that may influence a patient s ECG signal. The additional parameters may or may not be used in the comparison of the changes in ECG signal over time and circumstances.

The conclusions determinations and or insights into the patient s health generated by the system may be communicated to the patient directly or via the patient s caregiver doctor or other healthcare professional . For example the patient can be sent an email or text message that is automatically generated by the system. The email or text message can be a notification which directs the patient to log onto a secure site to retrieve the full conclusion determination or insight or the email or text message can include the conclusion determination or insight. Alternatively or additionally the email or text message can be sent to the patient s caregiver. The notification may also be provided via an application on a smartphone tablet laptop desktop or other computing device.

As described herein the system can identify behaviors habits activities foods drinks medications drugs and the like which are associated with the patient s abnormal ECG readings. In addition to informing the patient of these associations the system can provide instructions or recommendations to the patient to avoid these behaviors habits activities foods drinks medications drugs and the like which are associated with the patient s abnormal ECG readings. Similarly the system can identify behaviors habits activities foods drinks medications drugs and the like which are associated with normal or improving ECG readings and can instruct or recommend that the patient perform these behaviors habits and activities and or consume these foods drinks medications and drugs. The patient may avoid a future healthcare issue as instructed or recommended by the system by modifying their behavior habits or by taking any course of action including but not limited to taking a medication drug or adhering to a diet or exercise program which may be a predetermined course of action recommended by the system independent of any analysis of the ECG data and or may also result from insights learned through this system and method as described herein. In addition the insights of the system may relate to general fitness and or mental wellbeing.

The ECG data and the associated metadata and other related data as described herein can be stored in a central database a cloud database or a combination of the two. The data can be indexed searched and or sorted according to any of the features parameters or criteria described herein. The system can analyze the ECG data of a single patient and it can also analyze the ECG data of a group of patients which can be selected according to any of the features parameters or criteria described herein. When analyzing data from a single patient it may be desirable to reduce and or correct for the intra individual variability of the ECG data so that comparison of one set of ECG data taken at one particular time with another set of ECG data taken at another time reveals differences resulting from changes in health status and not from changes in the type of ECG recording device used changes in lead and electrode placement changes in the condition of the skin i.e. dry sweaty conductive gel applied or not applied and the like. As described above consistent lead and electrode placement can help reduce variability in the ECG readings. The system can also retrieve the patient s ECG data that were taken under similar circumstances and can analyze this subset of ECG data.

Although the above steps show a method in accordance with many embodiments a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the teaching described herein. The steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or deleted. Some of the steps may comprise sub steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as beneficial to the user or subject.

One or more of the steps of a method may be performed with circuitry for example one or more of a processor or a logic circuitry such as a programmable array logic for a field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to provide one or more of the steps of a method and the program may comprise program instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium or memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array for example.

Aspects of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for generating a heart health score in response to continuously measured or monitored physiological parameter s . The score may be given a quantitative value such as be graded from A to F or 0 to 100 for example e.g. a great score may be an A or 100 a good score may be a B or 75 a moderate score may be a C or 50 a poor score may be a D or 25 and a failing score may be an F or 0. If an arrhythmia is detected the score may be below 50 for example. Other scoring ranges such as A to Z 1 to 5 1 to 10 1 to 1000 etc. may also be used. Arrhythmia may be detecting using the machine learning based operations or algorithms described herein.

In a step an arrhythmia is detected. If an arrhythmia is detected e.g. using the methods and or algorithms disclosed herein then the heart health score generated will be below 50. Depending on the severity of the arrhythmia detected the heart score may be calculated or assigned within the ranges according to the table below in Table 2.

In a step a Heart Rate Variability HRV is calculated. HRV can be an indicator of heart health. The value for HRV value for a healthy heart is typically higher than HRV for an unhealthy heart. Also HRV typically declines with age and may be affected by other factors like stress lack of physical activity etc. HRV may be measured and analyzed using the methods described above. HRV may be calculated in the absence of arrhythmia which may improve the accuracy of the HRV measurement. HRV may be determined and further analyzed as described above.

In a step premature beats are counted and Heart Rate Turbulence HRT is calculated. Premature beats in the sequence of R R intervals may be detected. Also R R intervals typically tend to recover at a certain pace after a premature beat. Using these two parameters prematurity and pace of R R recovery HRT parameters may be calculated. There may be known deviations of HRT parameters associated with patients with risk of Congestive Heart Failure CHF . These deviations however may be used to estimate an inverse measure. The number of premature beats per day or per hour may also be used as a measure of heart health. A low number of premature beats may indicate better heart health. In summary the heart health score may be generated by combining at least heart rate variability HRV the number of premature beats and heart rate turbulence HRT . This combination in the absence of arrhythmia may provide an accurate estimate of how healthy the heart of the user is.

In a step a heart health score is generated and in a step a hearth health score is generated based on an arrhythmia. To initially generate the score a few hours e.g. 2 5 hours of measured R R intervals may be required. A more accurate score may be generated after a week of continuous R R interval measurements. Longer data sets may be required to detect significant arrhythmias as they may usually be detected within the first 7 8 days of monitoring.

Although the above steps show a method in accordance with many embodiments a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the teaching described herein. The steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or deleted. Some of the steps may comprise sub steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as beneficial to the user or subject.

One or more of the steps of a method may be performed with circuitry for example one or more of a processor or a logic circuitry such as a programmable array logic for a field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to provide one or more of the steps of a method and the program may comprise program instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium or memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array for example.

In a step a raw ECG waveform is obtained. In a step ECG parameters are extracted from the raw ECG waveform data and arrhythmia prediction and or detection algorithms are run to analyze the obtained raw ECG waveform data.

In a step physiological parameters may be measured using a sensor of the user s local computing device or an accessory thereof. Such measured physiological parameters may include blood pressure user activity and exercise level blood oxygenation levels blood sugar levels an electrocardiogram skin hydration or the like of the user. These physiological parameters may be measured over time such as over substantially the same time scale or length as the measurement of heart rate. In a step an R R interval is extracted and both traditional and non traditional heart rate measures are used to analyze the measured heart rate and physiological parameters.

In a step additional physiological parameters for determining the heart health score may be input by the user. These parameters may include the age the gender the weight the height the body type the body mass index BMI the personal medical history the family medical history the exercise and activity level the diet the hydration level the amount of sleep the cholesterol level the alcohol intake level the caffeine intake level the smoking status and the like of the user. For example the heart health score may be weighted by age and or gender to provide the user an accurate assessment of his or her heart health in response to the heart rate data. In a step feature extraction is used to analyze the inputted physiological parameters.

In a step feature ranking and or feature selection occurs. In a step a real time prediction or detection of atrial fibrillation and or in a step the heart rate variability measurements may be labelled and saved for offline training of a machine learning algorithm or set of machine learning operations and then may be subsequently used to make a real time prediction and or detection of atrial fibrillation. A plurality of heart health scores may be generated by a plurality of users to generate a set of population data. This population data may be used to train the machine learning algorithms described herein such that the trained algorithm may be able to detect and predict atrial fibrillation or other health conditions from user data.

Although the above steps show a method in accordance with many embodiments a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the teaching described herein. The steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or deleted. Some of the steps may comprise sub steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as beneficial to the user or subject.

One or more of the steps of a method may be performed with circuitry for example one or more of a processor or a logic circuitry such as a programmable array logic for a field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to provide one or more of the steps of a method and the program may comprise program instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium or memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array for example.

The systems and methods for generating a heart health score in response to continuously measured or monitored physiological parameter s may comprise a processor of a computing device and software. A processor of a computing device e.g. a tablet computer a smartphone a smart watch a smart band a wearable computing device or the like may execute this set of instructions to receive the input data and detect and or predict atrial fibrillation therefrom. The software may be downloaded from an online application distribution platform such as the Apple iTunes or App Store Google Play Amazon App Store and the like. A display of the computing device may notify the user of the calculated heart health score and or if further measurements are required e.g. to perform a more accurate analysis .

In a step the user or subject downloads the cardiac disease and or rhythm management system software onto their computing device. For example the system software may comprise a mobile software application mobile app downloaded from the Apple App Store Google Play Amazon Appstore BlackBerry World Nokia Store Windows Store Windows Phone Store Samsung Apps Store and the like. The downloaded system software e.g. mobile app may be configured to interface with the biometric sensors provided to the user or subject in the step .

In a step personal information input to the cardiac disease management system is received. For example the user or subject may enter his or her gender height weight diet disease risk factors etc. into the mobile app . Alternatively or in combination this personal information may be input on behalf of the user or subject for example by a physician of the user or subject.

In a step biometric data is received from the biometric sensors provided to the user or subject. For example the system and the mobile app may receive ECG data and heart rate from handheld sensor activity data from wrist worn activity sensor blood pressure and heart rate data from mobile blood pressure monitor and other data such as weight and body fat percentage data from a smart scale in communication with the local computing device .

In a step a cardiac health score is generated. The cardiac health score can be generated by considering and weighing one or more influencing factors including the incidence of atrial fibrillation or arrhythmia as detected by the handheld ECG monitor the heart rate of the user or subject the activity of the user or subject hours of sleep and rest of the user or subject blood pressure of the user or subject etc. Often the incidence of atrial fibrillation or arrhythmia will be weighed the most. The cardiac health score may be generated by a physician or a machine learning algorithm provided by the remote server or cloud based service for example. A plurality of users and subject may concurrently use the cardiac health and or rhythm management system and the machine learning algorithm may for example consider population data and trends to generate an individual user or subject s cardiac health score.

In a step one or more recommendations or goals is generated for the user or subject based on or in response to the generated cardiac health score. These recommendation s and or goal s may be generated automatically based on or in response to the biometric and personal information of the user or subject. For example the machine learning algorithm may generate these recommendation s goal s . Alternatively or in combination a physician or other medical specialist may generate the recommendation s and or goal s for example based on or in response to the biometric and personal information of the user or subject. The physician or other medical professional may access the patient data through the Internet as described above.

In a step the patient implements many if not all of the recommendation s and or goal s provided to him or her. And in a step steps to may be repeated such that the user or subject may iteratively improve their cardiac health score and their overall health.

Although the above steps show method of managing cardiac disease and or rhythm in accordance with many embodiments a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the teaching described herein. The steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or deleted. Some of the steps may comprise sub steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as beneficial to the user or subject.

One or more of the steps of the method may be performed with circuitry for example one or more of a processor or a logic circuitry such as a programmable array logic for a field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to provide one or more of the steps of the method and the program may comprise program instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium or memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array for example.

In some embodiments the heart rate information or an extracted portion of HR information may be used to compare to a database of similar information that has been correlated with cardiac events. For example heart rate information may be compared to a database of HR information extracted for ECG recordings of patients known to be experiencing cardiac problems. Thus patterns of heart rate information taken from a subject may be compared to patterns of cardiac information in a database. If there is a match or a match within a reasonable closeness of fit the patient may be instructed to record an ECG e.g. using an ambulatory ECG monitor. This may then provide a more detailed view of the heart. This method may be particularly useful as it may allow recording and or transmission and or analysis of detailed electrical information about the heart at or near the time or shortly thereafter when a clinically significant cardiac event is occurring. Thus the continuous monitoring may allow a subject to be alerted immediately upon an indication of the potential problem e.g. an increase in HRV suggestive of a cardiac dysfunction . This may allow the coupling of continuous HR monitoring with ECG recording and analysis for disease diagnosis and disease management.

The top portion of the atrial fibrillation dashboard as shown in may display the current cardiac health score of the user or subject a recent best cardiac health score of the user or subject and a completion percentage of recommendation s and or goal s for the user or subject. The user or subject may tap any one of the cardiac health score displays or the recommendation s and or goal s displays to access more detailed information regarding the calculated health score s or recommendation s and or goal s respectively. The top portion may also show an ECG of the user or subject and a button which may be tapped to record the ECG of the user or subject for the day. As discussed with reference to the ECG may be recorded with a handheld sensor in communication with the local computing device . The top portion may also show the number of atrial fibrillation episodes and the average duration of these atrial fibrillation episodes. This number and duration may be generated automatically by software or logic of the mobile app based on or in response to the ECG measurements taken by the user or subject. Alternatively or in combination a physician may access the atrial fibrillation dashboard of an individual user or subject evaluate his or her ECGs and provide the number of atrial fibrillation episodes and their duration to the mobile app or other software loaded on the local computing device of the user or subject. The shortest and longest durations of the atrial fibrillation episodes may also be shown by the top portion as well as the user or subject s daily adherence to a medication regime.

The bottom portion of the atrial fibrillation dashboard as shown in may display one or more influencers which influence how the cardiac health score is generated. These influencers may include for example caffeine intake alcohol intake stress levels sleep levels weight nutrition fitness and activity levels and blood pressure. Data for these influencers may be input automatically by one or more biometric sensors coupled to the local computing device and or the mobile app . Alternatively or in combination the data for these influencers may be input manually by the user or subject by tapping on the respective influencer display. For example tapping on the blood pressure display area may cause a slider input for blood pressure to pop up. The user or subject may use the slider to enter and save his or her blood pressure for the day. Similar pop ups or user selected inputs may be provided for the other influencers. For example the user or subject may enter his or her daily caffeine or alcohol intake stress and sleep levels nutrition levels or activity and fitness levels e.g. low bad medium so so or high good based on the user s age gender height weight etc. as can be indicated by an instruction page of the mobile app . The influencer displays may also show the goal progression of the user or subject.

A bottom portion of the goals and recommendations page may comprise a listing of new goals which the user or subject may add. The new goals may be categorized into goals or recommendations for atrial fibrillation management stress management and or other categories. For example goals for atrial fibrillation management may include taking daily medications reducing caffeine intake and reducing alcohol intake. And goals for stress management may include meditate for 5 minutes daily take blood pressure reading daily and getting at least 7 hours of sleep nightly. Using the goals and recommendations page the user or subject can set their goals for the week. One or more of these goals may be automatically recommended to the user or subject or be recommended by a physician having access to the dashboard . For example goals may be recommended based on last week s progress. The completion of recommended goals can result in the user or subject earning more points in effect gamifying health and cardiac rhythm management for the user or subject. Alternatively or in combination the goals may be set by a physician having access to the dashboard .

For example presently available smart watches include motion sensors such as pedometers. Pedometers can be based on an accelerometer or electromechanical mechanism such as a pendulum magnetic reed proximity switch and a spring suspended lever arm with metal on metal contact. Modern accelerometers are often small micro electro mechanical systems and are well known by those skilled in the art. Heart rate monitors are readily available with smart phones as well as smart watches. One type uses an optical sensor to detect the fluctuation of blood flow. The signal can be amplified further using for example a microcontroller to count the rate of fluctuation which is actually the heart rate.

An advisory condition for recording an ECG may occur due to for example large continuing fluctuations in heart rate. An advisory condition for recording an ECG can also occur when a measured heart rate increases rapidly without a corresponding increase in activity monitored by for example an accelerometer. By comparing measured heart rate changes with measured activity changes the presently disclosed software or app minimizes false alarms are minimized. ECG devices are described in U.S. Ser. No. 12 796 188 filed Jun. 8 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 509 882 hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The ECG device can be present in a smart watch band or a smart phone. In one embodiment the ECG device includes an electrode assembly configured to sense heart related signals upon contact with a user s skin and to convert the sensed heart related signals to an ECG electric signal. The ECG device transmits an ultrasonic frequency modulated ECG signal to a computing device such as for example a smartphone. Software running on the computing device or smartphone digitizes and processes the audio in real time where the frequency modulated ECG signal is demodulated. The ECG can be further processed using algorithms to calculate heart rate and identify arrhythmias. The ECG heart rate and rhythm information can be displayed on the computer or smartphone stored locally for later retrieval and or transmitted in real time to a web server via a 2G 3G 4G WiFi or other Internet connection. In addition to the display and local processing of the ECG data the computer or smartphone can transmit in real time the ECG heart rate and rhythm data via a secure web connection for viewing storage and further analysis via a web browser interface.

In another embodiment the converter assembly of an ECG device is integrated with and electrically connected to the electrode assembly and is configured to convert the electric ECG signal generated by electrode assembly to a frequency modulated ECG ultrasonic signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 18 kHz to about 24 kHz. It is sometimes desirable to utilize a carrier frequency in the 20 kHz to 24 kHz range. The ultrasonic range creates both a lower noise and a silent communication between the acquisition electronics and the computing device such as the smartphone notebook smart watch and the like.

A kit can include downloadable software such as an app for detecting an advisory condition for recording an ECG and an ECG device. The ECG device can be present on a watch band for replacing a specific band on a smart watch. The ECG device can also be provided on a smart phone back plate for replacing an existing removable smartphone back. In another configuration the ECG device is usable as a smartphone protective case.

Software on the smartphone or smart watch can also combine data and signals from other sensors built into the smartphone or smart watch such as a GPS.

While preferred embodiments of the present disclosure have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the subject matter described herein. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the subject matter described herein may be employed in practicing the subject matter described herein. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the disclosure and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.

