---

title: Methods and systems for managing a vehicle computer to record information and images
abstract: A vehicle recording event method and device to monitor one or more parameters at the vehicle based on a trigger condition during a vehicle drive event. The method may receive, via a vehicle computing system, a configuration from a handheld device to output at least a portion of one or more parameters at a heads-up display (HUD). The method may record the parameters during a vehicle drive event based on a trigger condition. The method may transmit the parameters to the handheld device for storage of the vehicle drive event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465214&OS=09465214&RS=09465214
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 09465214
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150129
---
The present disclosure relates to one or more applications for use with a vehicle in particular to manage recorded information that provides vehicle operation information to a handheld device.

Vehicle data recorders have been integrated into vehicles to record one or more variables when an accident is detected. The one or more variables are recorded using inputs from video and global positioning systems. While this information may be helpful to a vehicle owner it may not be preconfigured or enabled based on user input at a vehicle or remote device. Various other systems have been used to record vehicle data although they may record preconfigured data variables that may not be configured by a user or communicated to other devices in communication with the vehicle.

In at least one embodiment a system includes a heads up display HUD and at least one processor configured to communicate with the HUD and a handheld device. The HUD may be configured to output vehicle parameters. The at least one processor is further configured to transmit at least a portion of the parameters displayed by the HUD during a record event to the handheld device for storage of the record event.

In at least one embodiment a vehicle recording event method monitors one or more parameters during a vehicle drive event. The method may receive via a vehicle computing system a configuration from a handheld device to output at least a portion of one or more parameters at a display. The method may record the parameters during a vehicle drive event based on a trigger condition. The method may transmit the parameters for subsequent transmission to the handheld device for storage of the vehicle drive event.

In at least one embodiment a handheld device includes a user interface display and a processor configured to communicate with a vehicle computing system VCS . The user interface display may be configured to receive an event file name and allow the selection of vehicle parameters for output by a vehicle display. The processor may be configured to transmit configuration data having the selected parameters to the VCS. The processor may be further configured to receive data associated with the vehicle parameters from the VCS based on a record event. The process may be further configured to store the data under the event file name.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein. It is to be understood however that the disclosed embodiments are merely examples and other embodiments can take various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features could be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the embodiments. As those of ordinary skill in the art will understand various features illustrated and described with reference to any one of the figures can be combined with features illustrated in one or more other figures to produce embodiments that are not explicitly illustrated or described. The combinations of features illustrated provide representative embodiments for typical applications. Various combinations and modifications of the features consistent with the teachings of this disclosure however could be desired for particular applications or implementations.

The embodiments of the present disclosure generally provide for a plurality of circuits or other electrical devices. All references to the circuits and other electrical devices and the functionality provided by each are not intended to be limited to encompassing only what is illustrated and described herein. While particular labels may be assigned to the various circuits or other electrical devices disclosed such labels are not intended to limit the scope of operation for the circuits and the other electrical devices. Such circuits and other electrical devices may be combined with each other and or separated in any manner based on the particular type of electrical implementation that is desired. It is recognized that any circuit or other electrical device disclosed herein may include any number of microprocessors integrated circuits memory devices e.g. FLASH random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other suitable variants thereof and software which co act with one another to perform operation s disclosed herein. In addition any one or more of the electric devices may be configured to execute a computer program that is embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that is programmed to perform any number of the functions as disclosed.

A vehicle computing system may be configured to include the integration of one or more features using a single application communicating with a handheld device or family of devices where the single application is configured to allow the user to control the handheld device or family of devices via a user interface of the application. While such an approach works with select handheld devices it may be difficult to scale as the number and type of handheld devices grows. In the vehicle environment in particular communication with a handheld device may provide for additional capabilities of the vehicle computing system.

An improved vehicle system may be configured to include features for monitoring vehicle performance with the use of an application. The system may include a handheld device interface configured to communicate with and control the monitoring of the vehicle and or vehicle system. The functionality exposed by the handheld device interface may then be made available to the other applications of the vehicle system through an application programming interface API such that other applications of the vehicle may be able to communicate with the handheld device features. In an example the API may be registered with a vehicle service configured to define access to the handheld devices of the system as well as associated supported functions. If an application of the vehicle would like to communicate with the handheld device the application may request to do so using the exposed handheld device interface API. The handheld device interface may accordingly act as a broker to translate and perform the request of the calling application including informing the requester of recorded data errors alarms or received information from the controller handheld device.

In another example the vehicle system may be configured to communicate vehicle information to the one or more handheld devices. The handheld device may receive the information from the vehicle system and output one or more messages. For example the vehicle system may communicate vehicle information to the handheld device via the API of the system.

Once a handheld device is configured for use by the vehicle system the system may be further configured to utilize a device scripting application to define scripting settings. The settings may include scripting triggers having conditions based on vehicle data and or information received from the handheld device. The scripting triggers may have scripting actions to be requested by the device scripting application and when the condition is satisfied communicate with the handheld device via the handheld device interface. For example the device scripting application of the system may utilize vehicle data such as vehicle speed vehicle location or other information obtained from the vehicle computing system as a trigger to communicate with the connected handheld device to automatically store information and or output information at the device.

As a more specific example a vehicle may maintain handheld device credentials allowing the handheld device interface to be able to connect to one or more systems in communication with the vehicle computing system. When the device scripting application of the vehicle receives information from the handheld device such as a request to monitor one or more variables or that a vehicle trigger event is detected the vehicle system may utilize the information to communicate data to the handheld device. The system may further include a user interface facilitating the addition of this and other scenarios without requiring the user to install a different application for each automation purpose.

Thus the vehicle applications and device scripting application may have access to communicate with the handheld device s resulting in direct communication of vehicle information to the handheld device and more overall functionality for the vehicle. Moreover the system may be able to manage when and how to control each handheld device as well as provide appropriate feedback to a calling application when a handheld device has detected a request to record one or more vehicle parameters. Thus by way of the communication the vehicle may be able to present information to the vehicle occupant transmit and store the information at the handheld device and or a combination thereof.

The vehicle computing system may output information that may assist the driver to manage one or more applications. The vehicle computing system may process information for display using one or more processors. The output information may be displayed at a heads up display HUD user screen at a speaker an instrument cluster and or a combination thereof. For example navigation information may be presented to the driver using the display and or the speaker. Additional information may be communicated to the driver with the use of the HUD. The HUD provides a display that outputs the additional information on the windshield in the driver s line of sight of the road. The system may record one or more vehicle parameters while the driver follows the navigation directions. The system may transmit the one or more vehicle parameters to the handheld device for display and or storage.

In the illustrative embodiment shown in a processor controls at least some portion of the operation of the vehicle based computing system. Provided within the vehicle the processor allows onboard processing of commands and routines. Further the processor is connected to both non persistent and persistent storage . In this illustrative embodiment the non persistent storage is random access memory RAM and the persistent storage is a hard disk drive HDD or flash memory. In general persistent non transitory memory can include all forms of memory that maintain data when a computer or other device is powered down. These include but are not limited to HDDs CDs DVDs magnetic tapes solid state drives portable USB drives and any other suitable form of persistent memory.

The processor is also provided with a number of different inputs allowing the user to interface with the processor. In this illustrative embodiment a microphone an auxiliary input for input a USB input a GPS input screen which may be a touchscreen display and a BLUETOOTH input are all provided. An input selector is also provided to allow a user to swap between various inputs. Input to both the microphone and the auxiliary connector is converted from analog to digital by a converter before being passed to the processor. Although not shown numerous vehicle components and auxiliary components in communication with the VCS may use a vehicle network such as but not limited to a CAN bus to pass data to and from the VCS or components thereof . For example a camera system not shown for capturing images around the vehicle may be in communication with the VCS via the vehicle network.

Outputs of the system may include but are not limited to the visual display the HUD and a speaker or stereo system output. The speaker is connected to an amplifier and receives its signal from the processor through a digital to analog converter . Output can also be made to a remote BLUETOOTH device such as PND or a USB device such as vehicle navigation device along the bi directional data streams shown at and respectively.

In one illustrative embodiment the system uses the BLUETOOTH transceiver to communicate with a user s nomadic device e.g. cell phone smart phone PDA or any other handheld device having wireless remote network connectivity . The handheld device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments tower may be a WiFi access point.

Exemplary communication between the handheld device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver is represented by signal .

Pairing a handheld device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver can be instructed through a button or similar input. Accordingly the CPU is instructed that the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver will be paired with a BLUETOOTH transceiver in a handheld device.

Data may be communicated between CPU and network utilizing for example a data plan data over voice or DTMF tones associated with nomadic device . Alternatively it may be desirable to include an onboard modem having antenna to communicate data between CPU and network over the voice band. The handheld device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments the modem may establish communication with the tower for communicating with network . As a non limiting example modem may be a USB cellular modem and communication may be cellular communication.

In one illustrative embodiment the processor is provided with an operating system including an API to communicate with modem application software. The modem application software may access an embedded module or firmware on the BLUETOOTH transceiver to complete wireless communication with a remote BLUETOOTH transceiver such as that found in a nomadic device . Bluetooth is a subset of the IEEE 802 PAN personal area network protocols. IEEE 802 LAN local area network protocols include WiFi and have considerable cross functionality with IEEE 802 PAN. Both are suitable for wireless communication within a vehicle. Another communication means that can be used in this realm is free space optical communication such as IrDA and non standardized consumer IR protocols.

In another embodiment the handheld device includes a modem for voice band or broadband data communication. In the data over voice embodiment a technique known as frequency division multiplexing may be implemented when the owner of the handheld device can talk over the device while data is being transferred. At other times when the owner is not using the device the data transfer can use the whole bandwidth 300 Hz to 3.4 kHz in one example . While frequency division multiplexing may be common for analog cellular communication between the vehicle and the internet and is still used it has been largely replaced by hybrids of Code Domain Multiple Access CDMA Time Domain Multiple Access TDMA Space Domain Multiple Access SDMA for digital cellular communication. These are all ITU IMT 2000 3G compliant standards and offer data rates up to 2 mbs for stationary or walking users and 385 kbs for users in a moving vehicle. 3G standards are now being replaced by IMT Advanced 4G which offers 100 mbs for users in a vehicle and 1 gbs for stationary users. If the user has a data plan associated with the nomadic device it is possible that the data plan allows for broad band transmission and the system could use a much wider bandwidth speeding up data transfer . In still another embodiment handheld device is replaced with a cellular communication device not shown that is installed to vehicle . In yet another embodiment the handheld device may be a wireless local area network LAN device capable of communication over for example and without limitation an 802.11g network i.e. WiFi or a WiMax network.

In one embodiment incoming data can be passed through the handheld device via a data over voice or data plan through the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver and into the vehicle s internal processor . In the case of certain temporary data for example the data can be stored on the HDD or other storage media until such time as the data is no longer needed.

Additional sources that may interface with the vehicle include a personal navigation device having for example a USB connection and or an antenna a vehicle navigation device having a USB or other connection an onboard GPS device or remote navigation system not shown having connectivity to network . USB is one of a class of serial networking protocols. IEEE 1394 FireWire Apple i.LINK Sony and Lynx Texas Instruments EIA Electronics Industry Association serial protocols IEEE 1284 Centronics Port S PDIF Sony Philips Digital Interconnect Format and USB IF USB Implementers Forum form the backbone of the device device serial standards. Most of the protocols can be implemented for either electrical or optical communication. The system may communicate the data received from the handheld device and or the additional sources to one or more outputs. The one or more outputs may include but is not limited to the display speaker HUD not shown and or a combination thereof.

Further the CPU could be in communication with a variety of other auxiliary devices . These devices can be connected through wireless or wired connections. Auxiliary devices may include but are not limited to personal media players wireless health devices portable computers and the like.

Also or alternatively the CPU could be connected to a vehicle based wireless router using for example a WiFi IEEE 803.11 transceiver. This could allow the CPU to connect to remote networks in range of the local router .

In addition to having exemplary processes executed by a vehicle computing system located in a vehicle in certain embodiments the exemplary processes may be executed by a computing system in communication with a vehicle computing system. Such a system may include but is not limited to the handheld device e.g. and without limitation a mobile phone or a remote computing system e.g. and without limitation a server connected through the handheld device. Collectively such systems may be referred to as vehicle associated computing systems VACS . In certain embodiments particular components of the VACS may perform particular portions of a process depending on the particular implementation of the system. By way of example and not limitation if a process has a step of sending or receiving information with a paired handheld device then it is likely that the handheld device is not performing the process since the handheld device would not send and receive information with itself. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand when it is inappropriate to apply a particular VACS to a given solution. In all solutions it is contemplated that at least the vehicle computing system VCS located within the vehicle itself is capable of performing the exemplary processes.

The handheld device may communicate information with the VCS for controlling functions receiving data and or setting parameters of the vehicle. As illustrated the handheld device may be configured to receive information from the VCS over the network . As some other examples the handheld device may be configured to receive the information from the VCS over other networks or types of network connection such as over a BLUETOOTH connection over a ZIGBEE wireless mesh network or over another suitable type of network or network protocol for providing handheld device information . The handheld device information may include commands to cause the handheld device to perform actions such as recording vehicle data execute one or more applications launch an application and or configure an application. The information received from the handheld device may include messages configured to inform the vehicle occupant of the handheld device commands and whether the handheld device commands were successful. In some cases the handheld device commands may be configured to request information related to a vehicle record application executed at the handheld device e.g. whether the vehicle record application has requested one or more vehicle parameters to be recorded and whether the application started receiving the one or more parameters and the command responses may be configured to return the requested status information back to the requester.

The device interface may be configured to provide the VCS with access to the features of the handheld device . To provide the access the device interface may be configured to expose an API allowing other applications of the VCS to provide handheld device commands to the handheld device and receive command responses from the handheld device responsive to the provided handheld device commands . For example in response to a request to record one or more vehicle parameters the VCS may provide the one or more vehicle parameters data to the handheld device .

The handheld device may be configured to require security credentials to allow the VCS to provide device commands to the handheld device . As some examples the handheld device may require an account name or username and a password passphrase personal identification number fingerprint or other credential that may be used by the handheld device to ensure that the VCS is authorized to access the handheld device features for the corresponding account or user. The VCS may be configured to maintain and provide the security credentials for the handheld device to facilitate the connection and command execution using the device interface . In some cases the device interface may be further configured to maintain control information for the handheld device . For example the device interface may expose API information related to the handheld device for which security credentials are available as well as information regarding the capabilities of the connected handheld device e.g. based on the model of handheld device based on a query of the handheld device by the device interface for capability information .

The device applications may include one or more applications installed at the VCS and configured to make use of functionality of the handheld device via the device interface . As an example the device applications may include a vehicle record feature application configured to allow a user to select one or more vehicle parameters to record and to store the data for the one or more vehicle parameters. As another example the device applications may include a vehicle HUD application configured to allow the user to select one or more variables for display at the HUD via the vehicle record feature application.

The device scripting application may be another example of a device application and may be configured to allow a user to script the functions of the one or more applications at the handheld device . The device scripting application may include functionality to determine when specified trigger conditions have occurred and to perform specified actions in response to triggering of the trigger conditions . These triggers and actions may be referred to herein as scripting settings .

The vehicle data may include various inputs that may be monitored by the VCS to receive indications of the vehicle status. Exemplary vehicle data may include for example speed yaw pitch roll lateral acceleration temperature and rain sensor inputs as some possibilities. In some cases the vehicle data may include elements of data made available via the vehicle bus e.g. via the controller area network CAN . In other cases the vehicle data may include elements of data that may be otherwise received from vehicle sensors and systems e.g. yaw information received from a stability system rain sense information received from a weather detection system etc. location information received from a positioning system etc. . In yet further cases the vehicle data may include other information obtained from a connected mobile device e.g. from handheld device over Bluetooth WiFi etc. .

The trigger conditions of the scripting settings may be defined according to a relationship of one or more elements of vehicle data to one or more predefined conditions. For example in response to a request to start recording vehicle data at the handheld device the vehicle data information may be output by the system based on a trigger condition . The trigger condition may be configured to define a relationship of vehicle speed such as to define a condition that is triggered when the vehicle is above a predefined speed e.g. driving above miles per hour and or the powertrain gear selection e.g. the powertrain is in a Drive gear before enabling the vehicle record feature to store vehicle data.

The actions of the scripting settings may be defined according to an available feature of a connected handheld device . As an example an action may include sending a handheld device command to a handheld device to request a configuration of one or more vehicle parameters to monitor at the VCS to enable recording of the one or more vehicle parameters at the VCS and or a combination thereof.

The device scripting application may further include a user interface facilitating the configuration of the scripting settings without requiring the user to install a dedicated device application for each purpose. Further aspects of the user interface of the device scripting application are discussed in detail below.

In some cases the user interface of the device scripting application may be made available to the user only when driver workload permits the user to invoke the user interface. For example the workload estimator may be configured to receive the vehicle data e.g. via the CAN bus from the vehicle systems or sensors etc. and identify a driver workload based on the received vehicle data . In one possible approach the workload estimator may be configured to utilize a set of rules to determine a driving situation from the vehicle data and to further determine the driver workload according to the driving situation. More specifically based on the received vehicle data the workload estimator may be configured to match the received vehicle data against one or more conditions specified by the rules where each rule may be defined to indicate a particular driving situation indication encountered by the vehicle when the conditions of the rule are satisfied. As some examples rules may define a high traffic density condition according to criteria identifying many stops and starts in brake accelerator or speed vehicle data a merge condition according to vehicle data indicative of a swerve maneuver at speed and or a parked condition according to a park vehicle gear selection indicated in the vehicle data etc. Moreover each driving situation may be associated with a corresponding driver workload e.g. parked vehicle situations associated with a low level driver workload merge situations associated with a mid level driver workload high traffic density associated with a high level driver workload . As another example the workload estimator may associate certain conditions such as extreme weather with heightened driving demand such that as one possibility the workload estimator may associate certain weather conditions combined with a mid level demand area e.g. a merge situation with a heightened workload estimation such as a high level driver workload . The driver workload may include information indicating a relative level of current driver workload such as by a value along a scale e.g. from 1 to 5 from 0.01 to 1.00 etc. .

The configuration server may be a server device configured to facilitate configuration of the scripting settings through a user interface that is available outside of the vehicle and regardless of driver workload . In an example the configuration server may be configured to provide a web based front end user interface e.g. one or more web pages or data for use by a thick client user interface allowing for the selection of scripting settings such as trigger conditions and actions to be performed by the vehicle resulting from occurrence of the trigger conditions. To perform the configuration the configuration server may be configured to receive the scripting settings from the vehicle provide a user interface through which the scripting settings may be updated and provide the updated scripting settings back to the vehicle for use by the device scripting application . Further details of the integration of the handheld device into the vehicle system are discussed in detail below with respect to .

The one or more applications at the handheld device may include but is not limited to the device interface the device applications configured to utilize the device interface and or a combination thereof. The handheld device may be used to configure one or more applications for execution at the VCS according to user input at the device. The handheld device may receive notification from the VCS using the device scripting application .

The computer device may be a desktop computer located remotely from the vehicle . The computer device may be in communication with the VCS via the network connection. The computer device may be used to configure the one or more applications for execution at the VCS . For example the computer device may comprise the vehicle record feature application . The computer device may configure the vehicle record feature application by allowing a user to select one or more vehicle parameters to be monitored at the vehicle. The computer device may also configure the vehicle record feature application to set a specific trigger to begin recording of the one or more vehicle parameters.

A user may be able to set a trigger such that the vehicle record feature application may begin recording one or more vehicle parameters once the trigger is set. For example the trigger may be a certain location vehicle speed time of day and or a combination thereof. In response to the trigger the VCS may begin to monitor the one or more vehicle parameters. The one or more vehicle parameters may be displayed via the HUD the display and or a combination thereof. The VCS may transmit the one or more vehicle parameters to the handheld device . The handheld device may receive data associated with the one or more vehicle parameters and store the received data using memory hardware at the device. In another example the handheld device may display the vehicle parameters as a mirrored image of the HUD display and or a combination thereof.

The one or more vehicle parameters may include vehicle information from several subsystems communicating with the VCS over the vehicle network e.g. CAN Bus . The subsystems may include but are not limited to an anti lock braking system ABS A an engine control module ECM B and a vehicle record system C. The ECM B may monitor one or more parameters related to the powertrain performance. The ABS A may monitor one or more parameters related to vehicle braking and or ride handling. The VRS C may comprise a video camera used to capture video of the vehicle being driven.

The HUD may receive the one or more vehicle parameters via the vehicle network. The HUD may provide a transparent display outputting the one or more vehicle parameters at the driver s front windshield viewpoint. The one or more vehicle parameters presented at the HUD and or the video being captured via the camera may be transmitted to the handheld device for storage by non volatile memory at the device.

As illustrated the selectable list of the vehicle feature application includes an entry A for a select remove recording variables an entry B to configure settings and an entry C for trip settings. The list control may operate as a menu such that a user of the user interface may be able to scroll through list entries of the list control e.g. using up and down arrow buttons and a select button to invoke the selected menu item . In some cases the list control may be displayed on a user interface screen of the nomadic device such that the user may be able to touch the list control to select and invoke a menu item. For example when the entry C for the trip settings is selected the nomadic device may initiate the trip settings.

The list control may include additional entries. For example an entry D for display settings may be configured to cause the nomadic device to configure what variables may be displayed at the HUD and or vehicle display based on a paired connection with the VCS . As another example the Application Settings entry E when invoked may be configured to cause the nomadic device to display a user interface of settings for the application functionality generally.

The VCS may receive a record event from the vehicle record feature application configured at the nomadic device using the device interface . The record event may include a configured file letting the VCS know what vehicle parameters to record when to start the recording what information to output to the driver and or a combination thereof. The VCS may enable communication with the nomadic device via the device credentials . The vehicle record feature application may be executed at the VCS and configured to enable the use of hardware and or software applications at the nomadic device via the device interface .

For example the VCS may receive a configuration of a vehicle record event from the nomadic device . The vehicle record event may be executed at the VCS via the vehicle record feature application . The VCS may output data via the HUD and or display based on the vehicle record feature application . The VCS may begin executing the vehicle record feature based on the device scripting application . The device scripting application may receive one or more specified trigger conditions from the nomadic device . The nomadic device may provide a user interface to allow the configuration of the trigger conditions . The trigger conditions may be configured under the Trip Settings entry C which will be discussed in . In another example the trigger conditions may be configured at the VCS . In response to the execution of the vehicle record feature application the VCS may transmit the recorded data to the nomadic device for storage at the non volatile memory of the device.

With respect to the commands of the list control as one example the list control may include a command A that when invoked is configured to cause the handheld device to receive a trip name to label the file that stores the trip data received from the VCS . As another example the list control may include a command B that when invoked is configured to cause the handheld device to provide the VCS one or more route destinations that may be recorded via software and hardware at the VCS. In response to the route destination provided to the VCS the handheld device may receive data from vehicle parameters being recorded during the route. As a further example the list control may include a command C that when invoked is configured to cause the handheld device to receive recording trigger event s to communicate to the VCS when the vehicle record feature should start recording the data.

The VCS may receive the trip settings from the handheld device for output at the HUD and or vehicle display via a communication link. A user may be able to configure an alert for display to the driver when command D is invoked at the handheld device . For example the alert and or indicator configured for output to the driver may include a message providing information that the record event has begun. In another example the alert and or indicator may include a message to limit vehicle data presented to the driver at the HUD and or display based on driver workload workload estimator and or a combination thereof.

As with the list control the list control may also operate as a menu such that a user of the user interface may be able to scroll through list entries of the list control e.g. using up and down arrow buttons and a select button to invoke the selected menu item . Upon touch or button selection of one of the commands the handheld device VCS and a combination thereof may be configured to perform the selected action.

As illustrated the selectable list of the connected application includes an entry A for an Internet radio application and an entry B for the vehicle record feature application . The list control may operate as a menu such that a user of the user interface may be able to scroll through list entries of the list control e.g. using up and down arrow buttons and a select button to invoke the selected menu item . In some cases the list control may be displayed on a touch screen display such that the user may be able to touch the list control to select and invoke a menu item.

The list control may further include additional entries. For example the Find New Applications entry C when invoked may be configured to cause the VCS to query for an updated listing of the applications available to the system e.g. on the VCS via installed on a connected handheld device etc. . As another example the Application Settings entry D when invoked may be configured to cause the VCS to display a user interface of settings for the application functionality generally.

As shown in the one or more parameters from the vehicle record feature application are perceived by a driver as if the parameters are displayed at a fixed distance in front of the vehicle. The one or more parameters displayed by the HUD may be selected at the handheld device vehicle display and or a combination thereof. The HUD may output a vehicle record feature icon to visually inform the driver that the vehicle feature application is enabled at the VCS. The display may also provide an icon to inform the driver that a handheld device is connected and the handheld device signal strength connection to the cellular network.

The HUD may display a record icon to indicate to the driver whether the vehicle record feature has been enabled to start recording the one or more parameters. For example if a trigger condition has been satisfied the record icon may be displayed to inform the driver that the vehicle record feature is recording one or more parameters. In another example the driver may enable the vehicle record feature application by a selection at the display a voice command a button press and or a combination thereof.

As illustrated the HUD may provide miles per hour MPH revolutions per minute RPM longitudinal and lateral acceleration current location recording time lapse and or a combination thereof. The VCS may provide a mirror image of the HUD display to the handheld device using the one or more control modules monitoring the parameters and the vehicle record system C to capture the video of the vehicle being driven. In one example the video being recorded via the vehicle record system may provide images similar to the point of view of the driver. The handheld device may store the parameters and the video images received from the VCS . In another embodiment the vehicle may not comprise a HUD however the VCS may provide the parameters and video images to the handheld device for display and or storage.

The VCS may manage the information presented on the HUD based on driver workload workload estimator user configuration and or a combination thereof. For example the HUD may not provide the one or more parameters for display until the VCS receives a request to begin recording the parameters and or video. In another example the HUD may not present vehicle speed unless the vehicle speed exceeds a threshold value.

Referring again to the vehicle and its components illustrated in and are referenced throughout the description of the method to facilitate understanding of various aspects of the present disclosure. The process of recording one or more parameters based on a route trigger event driver workload and or combination thereof may be implemented through a computer algorithm machine executable code or software instructions programmed into a suitable programmable logic device s of the vehicle such as the vehicle control module the device control module the ABS A the ECM B the VRS C another controller in communication with the vehicle computing system or a combination thereof. Although the various operations shown in the flowchart diagram appear to occur in a chronological sequence at least some of the operations may occur in a different order and some operations may be performed concurrently or not at all.

In operation the vehicle record feature configuration process by the handheld device may be enabled by a communication connection with the VCS a start request received at a user interface and a combination thereof. The handheld device may initialize one or more applications for execution of the vehicle record feature configuration process using software and hardware at the device. The vehicle record feature may receive input requesting configuration of the application in operation .

In operation the vehicle record feature may determine if a configuration has been received from the VCS . For example in response to the communication connection with the VCS the process may receive a request to configure the one or more parameters based on input received from the VCS . The VCS may receive a vehicle record feature configuration request via input at the display . In another example the VCS may receive the vehicle record feature configuration request from a handheld device in communication with the VCS .

In operation if the vehicle record feature configuration has not been received from the VCS the process may display the configuration settings at a user interface of the handheld device . The vehicle record feature may receive input to configure the vehicle record feature in operation . For example the user may select parameters to record parameters to display trigger conditions to begin recording workload conditions to begin recordings and or a combination thereof.

In operation in response to received input for the configuration of the vehicle record feature application the handheld device may search for a connection with the VCS . If the VCS is connected to the handheld device the configuration input for the vehicle record feature application may be transmitted to the VCS in operation .

In operation once configuration of the vehicle record feature is complete the handheld device may request to exit the configuration of the application. If the configuration is complete the handheld device may store the configuration information in operation . For example the handheld device may transmit the vehicle record feature configuration at the next established communication link with the VCS . The handheld device may end the process if the one or more configuration menus have been completed and or the process is being requested to end at the user interface in operation .

In operation the VCS may be enabled by a start request received from one or more mechanisms including but not limited to a vehicle key a vehicle key fob the handheld device and or a combination thereof. The VCS may initialize one or more applications to enable execution of the vehicle record feature in operation .

In operation the VCS may begin to search for a communication link with the handheld device . The communication link may include but is not limited to Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy WiFi and or any other wireless communication technology. If the handheld device is detected the VCS may determine if a connection is made in operation . For example the handheld device may have to perform a pairing process before connecting to the VCS .

In operation in response to the handheld device establishing communication with the VCS the process may query the handheld device for vehicle record feature application data. The VCS may receive at least a portion of vehicle record feature application data from the handheld device . For example if the handheld device includes a pre configured vehicle record event the VCS may receive the configured vehicle record event in the communication data via the handheld device .

In operation the VCS may receive a recording request based on at least one of a driver input request a trigger event route destination data driver workload and or a combination thereof. If a record request is received the VCS may begin to record the one or more parameters and or video images of the drive event in operation . For example the pre configured vehicle record event may request a custom selection of vehicle parameters to record during the drive event. The VCS may transmit the recorded data including the one or more parameters and or the video images to the connected handheld device in operation . In another example the VCS may begin recording the data and temporarily store the data until a recognized handheld device establishes communication with the VCS .

In operation the VCS may continuously record the parameters and or video until a recording disable request is received. The recording disable request may be based on a driver input request a trigger event route destination data driver workload the pre configured vehicle record event and or a combination thereof. The VCS may transmit a record completion message to the handheld device . In another example the VCS may transmit a completion message to a remote computer in communication with the VCS via a network connection.

In operation the VCS may monitor if a key off event is detected. If a key off event is not detected the VCS may continue to execute the vehicle record feature application. In response to a key off event the VCS may end the process of the vehicle record feature application in operation . In one example in response to a disconnected communication link with the handheld device before transferring the recorded data is complete during a key off event the system may store the data until the next key cycle.

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms encompassed by the claims. The words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. As previously described the features of various embodiments can be combined to form further embodiments of the invention that may not be explicitly described or illustrated. While various embodiments could have been described as providing advantages or being preferred over other embodiments or prior art implementations with respect to one or more desired characteristics those of ordinary skill in the art recognize that one or more features or characteristics can be compromised to achieve desired overall system attributes which depend on the specific application and implementation. These attributes can include but are not limited to cost strength durability life cycle cost marketability appearance packaging size serviceability weight manufacturability ease of assembly etc. As such embodiments described as less desirable than other embodiments or prior art implementations with respect to one or more characteristics are not outside the scope of the disclosure and can be desirable for particular applications.

