---

title: Touch hem bar control
abstract: A motorized shade for covering a window, a door, or a wall opening is provided that can be actuated by touching its hem bar. The motorized shade, such as a roller shade, comprises a shade material extending from a top end to a bottom end, a hem bar assembly connected to the bottom end of the shade material, and a shade drive unit operably connected to the top end of the shade material. The hem bar assembly comprises a touch sensing module adapted to detect a user touching the hem bar assembly and transmit a control signal in response to the detected touch. The shade drive unit comprises a motor and a motor control module adapted to receive the control signal and control the motor to open or close the shade material. The control signal can be wirelessly transmitted from the touch sensing module to the motor control module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09644424&OS=09644424&RS=09644424
owner: CRESTRON ELECTRONICS, INC.
number: 09644424
owner_city: Rockleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151012
---
Aspects of the embodiments relate to motorized shades and more particularly to systems methods and modes for a motorized shade such as a motorized roller shade that can be actuated by touching its hem bar.

Motorized roller shades provide a convenient one touch control solution for screening windows doors or the like to achieve privacy and thermal effects. A motorized roller shade typically includes a rectangular shade material attached at one end to a cylindrical rotating tube called a roller tube and at an opposite end to a hem bar. The shade material is wrapped around the roller tube. An electric motor either mounted inside the roller tube or externally coupled to the roller tube rotates the roller tube to unravel the shade material to cover a window.

Motorized roller shades can be controlled in a variety of means. They can be controlled via in wall switches or keypads or remotely via handheld remotes. Often however users prefer a local control of a motorized shade without requiring connection to a control system or additional control products. Some motorized roller shades allow local control via buttons on the shade controller coupled to the roller shade motor in proximity to the roller tube. However these buttons may be difficult or impossible to reach and they are non intuitive.

Another solution exists that utilizes sensors which sense a pull or a tug on the shade or a hem bar to actuate the roller shade to control it locally. However this solution requires quite a bit of force to pull on the shade or the hem bar and it is slow to react. Additionally continued pulling on a shade for control can misalign the shade damage the shade or loosen tension in a counterbalancing system of the shade in particularly when the shade is mounted poorly.

Accordingly a need has arisen for a local control of a motorized shade and more specifically for a touch actuated motorized shade such as a motorized roller shade.

It is an object of the embodiments to substantially solve at least the problems and or disadvantages discussed above and to provide at least one or more of the advantages described below.

It is therefore a general aspect of the embodiments to provide systems methods and modes for a local control of a motorized shade that will obviate or minimize problems of the type previously described.

It is also an aspect of the embodiments to provide systems methods and modes for a touch actuated motorized shade and more particularly for a motorized shade such as a motorized roller shade that can be actuated by touching the hem bar.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Further features and advantages of the aspects of the embodiments as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the aspects of the embodiments are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

According to one aspect of the embodiments a motorized shade is provided for covering a window a door or a wall opening. The motorized shade comprises a shade material a hem bar and a shade drive unit. The shade material extends from a top end to a bottom end. The hem bar assembly is connected to the bottom end of the shade material and comprises a touch sensing module adapted to detect a touch of the hem bar assembly and transmit a control signal in response to the detected touch. The shade drive unit is operably connected to the top end of the shade material and comprises a motor and a motor control module adapted to receive the control signal and control the motor to open or close the shade material. The motorized shade can comprise a roller shade having a roller tube the shade material wrapping about the roller tube and the shade drive unit rotating the roller tube to raise and lower the shade material.

According to some aspects of the embodiments the hem bar assembly can comprise a longitudinal bar electrically coupled to the touch sensing module via a contact such that the touch sensing module detects a touch of the longitudinal bar. The longitudinal bar can comprise an electrically conductive material. The contact can comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a spring a wire a ring a screw clips spring clips a clamp teeth projections biasing members spacers and any combinations thereof. The touch sensing module can be attached to an end of the longitudinal bar. The longitudinal bar can comprise an opening that receives the touch sensing module therein and the shade material in turn can comprise a pocket that receives the longitudinal bar therein. In another embodiment the shade material can comprise a pocket that receives the longitudinal bar and the touch sensing module therein. In one embodiment the longitudinal bar can be covered by the shade material. In another embodiment the longitudinal bar can be covered by an outer layer. According to some aspects of the embodiments the touch sensing module energizes the longitudinal bar thereby turning the surface of the longitudinal bar into a capacitive touch sensor. In one embodiment the touch sensing module comprise an RC oscillator the longitudinal bar is electrically connected to the RC oscillator and the touch sensing module detects a touch of the longitudinal bar when the frequency of the RC oscillator is decreased below a predetermined threshold value. The change in frequency can be detected via a controller or a frequency comparator.

According to some aspects of the embodiments each of the motor control module and the touch sensing module comprises a wireless interface for wirelessly transmitting the control signal. The wireless interface can comprise a radio frequency transceiver an infrared transceiver or the like. In one embodiment the motor control module can be paired with the touch sensing module. In another embodiment the control signal comprises a unique identification number that identifies the touch sensing module.

According to some aspects of the embodiments the touch sensing module is adapted to detect i a first gesture designated to direct the motor control module to open the shade material and ii a second gesture designated to direct the motor control module to close the shade material. The first gesture can comprise a single touch and the second gesture can comprise a double touch or vice versa. In some embodiments the touch sensing module can transmit a plurality of control signals to a plurality of motor control modules for substantial simultaneous control of a plurality of shades. The touch sensing module can detect a third gesture the plurality of control signals identify the detected third gesture and the third gesture is designated to direct a plurality of motor control modules to substantially simultaneously open or close a plurality of shade materials. The third gesture can comprise a triple touch.

According to some aspects of the embodiments the motor control module stops opening or closing the shade material when the motor control module receives a control signal from the touch sensing module while the shade material is in the process of being opened or closed. In some aspects the touch sensing module can detect a hold and release gesture designated to direct the motor control module to open or close the shade material in response to the detected hold of the hem bar assembly and to stop opening or closing the shade material in response to the detected release of the hem bar assembly. Additionally the touch sensing module can detect a tap hold and release gesture designated to direct the motor control module to open or close the shade material in response to the detected tap and hold of the hem bar assembly and to stop opening or closing the shade material in response of the detected release of the hem bar assembly. In some embodiments the motor control module is further adapted to i detect that the hem bar assembly has hit or about to hit an obstacle when the motor control module receives a touch signal during a closing of the shade material and ii stop closing the shade material. In one embodiment subsequently to stopping closing the shade material the motor control module opens the shade material by a predetermined amount. In another embodiment the motor control module is adapted to i detect that the hem bar assembly has hit or about to hit an obstacle when the motor control module receives a hold signal during a closing of the shade material ii stop closing the shade material iii open the shade material and iv stop opening the shade material upon receiving a release signal from the touch sensing module.

According to some aspects of the embodiments the motor control module comprises a controller and a memory including a plurality of objects defining a plurality of operating commands based on a state of the motorized shade wherein upon receipt of the control signal the controller determines the state of the motorized shade and queries the memory to determine a respective operating command. The plurality of objects can define the following operating commands i when the controller receives the control signal while the shade material is in a fully opened position the controller controls the motor to close the shade material ii when the controller receives the control touch signal while shade material is in a fully closed position the controller controls the motor to open the shade material and iii when the controller receives the control signal while the shade material is in the process of being opened or closed the controller controls the motor to stop opening or closing the shade material. The plurality of objects can further define the following operating commands i when the controller receives a subsequent control signal within a predetermined period of time after the shade material has stopped opening and the shade material is partially opened the controller controls the motor to close the shade material and ii when the controller receives a subsequent control signal within a predetermined period of time after the shade material has stopped closing and the shade material is partially closed the controller controls the motor to open the shade material.

According to another aspect of the embodiments a motorized shade is provided for covering a window a door or a wall opening with a touch sensing module that can be used as a safety mechanism. Such motorized shade can comprise a a shade material extending from a top end to a bottom end b a hem bar assembly connected to the bottom end of the shade material and comprising a touch sensing module adapted to detect a touch of the hem bar assembly and transmit a control signal in response to the detected touch and c a shade drive unit operably connected to the top end of the shade material and comprising a motor and a motor control module adapted to i detect that the hem bar assembly has hit or about to hit an obstacle upon receiving the control signal during a closing of the shade material and ii control the motor to stop closing the shade material. In one embodiment the motor control module is further adapted to i detect that the hem bar assembly has hit or about to hit an obstacle when the motor control module receives a hold signal during a closing of the shade material ii stop closing the shade material iii open the shade material and iv stop opening the shade material upon receiving a release signal from the touch sensing module.

According to another aspect of the embodiments a roller shade is provided for covering a window a door or a wall opening comprising i a roller tube ii a shade material comprising a bottom end and a top end connected to the roller tube iii a hem bar assembly connected to the bottom end of the shade material and comprising a longitudinal bar and a touch sensing module adapted to detect a touch of the longitudinal bar and wirelessly transmit a control signal in response to the detected touch and iv a shade drive unit operably connected to the roller tube and comprising a motor and a motor control module adapt to wirelessly receive the control signal and control the motor to rotate the roller tube to raise or lower the shade material.

According to another aspect of the embodiments a method is provided of controlling a motorized shade including i a shade material ii a shade drive unit connected to a top end of the shade material and having a motor and a motor control module and iii a hem bar assembly connected to a bottom end of the shade material and having a touch sensing module. The method can comprise a detecting by the touch sensing module a touch of the hem bar assembly b transmitting by the touch sensing module a control signal in response to the detected touch c receiving by the motor control module the control signal and d controlling by the motor control module the motor to open or close the shade material. The method can further comprise i detecting by the touch sensing module a first gesture ii controlling by the motor control module the motor to open the shade material in response to receiving a control signal comprising the first gesture iii detecting by the touch sensing module a second gesture and iv controlling by the motor control module the motor to close the shade material in response to receiving a control signal comprising the second gesture. In some embodiments the first gesture can comprise a single touch and the second gesture comprises a double touch or vice versa.

According to some aspects of the embodiments the method further comprises i detecting by the touch sensing module a third gesture ii transmitting by the touch sensing module a plurality of control signals to a plurality of motor control modules and iii substantially simultaneously controlling by the plurality of motor control modules a plurality of shades in response to receiving the plurality of control signals comprising the third gesture. The third gesture can comprise a triple touch.

In another embodiment the method can comprise i detecting by the touch sensing module a hold of the hem bar assembly ii controlling by the motor control module the motor to open or close the shade material in response to the detected hold iii detecting by the touch sensing module a release of the hold of the hem bar assembly and iv controlling by the motor control module the motor to stop opening or closing the shade material in response to the detected release.

According to some aspects of the embodiments the method can comprise i detecting by the motor control module that the hem bar assembly has hit or about to hit an obstacle when the motor control module receives a control signal during a closing of the shade material and ii controlling by the motor control module the motor to stop closing the shade material. In one embodiment the method comprises subsequently controlling by the motor control module to open the shade material by a predetermined amount. In another embodiment the method further comprises i detecting by the motor control module that the hem bar assembly has hit or about to hit an obstacle when the motor control module receives a hold signal during a closing of the shade material and ii controlling by the motor control module to stop closing the shade material to open the shade material and to stop opening the shade material upon receiving a release signal from the touch sensing module.

The embodiments are described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the inventive concept are shown. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. The embodiments may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the inventive concept to those skilled in the art. The scope of the embodiments is therefore defined by the appended claims. The detailed description that follows is written from the point of view of a control systems company so it is to be understood that generally the concepts discussed herein are applicable to various subsystems and not limited to only a particular controlled device or class of devices such as roller shades.

Reference throughout the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the embodiments. Thus the appearance of the phrases in one embodiment on in an embodiment in various places throughout the specification is not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further the particular feature structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

For 40 years Crestron Electronics Inc. has been the world s leading manufacturer of advanced control and automation systems innovating technology to simplify and enhance modern lifestyles and businesses. Crestron designs manufactures and offers for sale integrated solutions to control audio video computer and environmental systems. In addition the devices and systems offered by Crestron streamlines technology improving the quality of life in commercial buildings universities hotels hospitals and homes among other locations. Accordingly the systems methods and modes of the aspects of the embodiments described herein as embodied as and can be manufactured by Crestron Electronics Inc. located in Rockleigh N.J.

The different aspects of the embodiments described herein pertain to the context of motorized shades but is not limited thereto except as may be set forth expressly in the appended claims. While a motorized shade is described herein for covering a window the motorized shade may be used to cover doors wall openings or the like. Additionally while the embodiments described herein reference roller shades the embodiments described herein may be adapted in other types of window door or wall opening coverings such as inverted rollers Roman shades Austrian shades pleated shades blinds shutters skylight shades garage doors or the like.

Disclosed herein are systems methods and modes for a local control of a motorized roller shade more particularly a touch actuated roller shade and more particularly a roller shade that can be actuated by touching the hem bar. According to some aspects of the embodiments the user can touch any portion of the hem bar surface to cause the roller shade to automatically roll up roll down or stop rolling. According to another aspect the user may substantially simultaneously control a plurality of roller shades within a room by touching one of the hem bars.

Referring to there is shown a roller shade according to one aspect of the embodiments. Particularly illustrates a front perspective view of the roller shade and illustrates an exploded front perspective view of the roller shade . Roller shade generally comprises a roller tube roller shade drive unit shade material and a hem bar assembly . Shade material is connected at its top end to the roller tube and at its bottom end to the hem bar assembly . Shade material wraps around the roller tube and is unraveled from the roller tube to cover a window a door a wall opening or the like. In various embodiments the shade material comprises fabric plastic vinyl or other materials known to those skilled in the art.

Roller tube is generally cylindrical in shape and longitudinally and laterally extends from a first end to a second end . In various embodiments the roller tube comprises aluminum stainless steel plastic fiberglass or other materials known to those skilled in the art. The first end of the roller tube receives the roller shade drive unit . The second end of the roller tube receives an idler assembly not shown . The roller shade is mounted on a window for example using mounting brackets and . The roller shade is rolled down and rolled up via the roller shade drive unit . Particularly the shade material is lowered from an opened or rolled up position when substantially the entire shade material is wrapped about the roller tube to a closed or rolled down position when the shade material is substantially unraveled.

As shown in greater detail in the roller shade drive unit comprises a motor control module a motor a crown adapter and a drive wheel . In various embodiments the various components of the roller shade drive unit comprise aluminum stainless steel plastic fiberglass rubber other materials known to those skilled in the art or any combinations thereof. The crown adapter and drive wheel are generally cylindrical in shape and are inserted into and operably connected to roller tube at its first end . Crown adapter and drive wheel comprise a plurality of channels extending circumferentially about their external surfaces. Channels mate with complementary projections radially extending from an inner surface of roller tube such that crown adapter drive wheel and roller tube rotate together during operation. Crown adapter can further comprise a plurality of teeth extending circumferentially about its external surface to form a friction fit between the crown adapter and the inner surface of the roller tube . Crown adapter can further comprise a flange radially extending therefrom. Flange prevents the crown adapter from sliding entirely into the roller tube . The crown adapter removably and releasably couples the roller shade drive unit to the roller tube .

In operation the motor drives the drive wheel which in turn rotates the roller tube and crown adapter with respect to the motor while the motor and motor control module remain stationary. The roller shade drive unit can comprise similar configuration to the CSM QMTDC 256 2 EX Digital QMT Shade Motor available from Crestron Electronics Inc. of Rockleigh N.J. The Crestron CSM QMTDC 256 2 EX shade motor utilizes the quiet precision controlled Quiet Motor Technology QMT to control the movement of the shade keep track of the shade s position and adjust the shade to the user s desired preset positions.

The motor control module operates to control the motor directing the operation of the motor including its direction speed and position. The motor control module comprises fully integrated electronics including circuit . Power can be supplied to the motor control module through a power cord by a dedicated power supply such as the CSA PWS40 or CSA PWS10S HUB available from Crestron Electronics Inc. of Rockleigh N.J. In another embodiment the motor control module may be battery operated. Motor control module can further comprise a local three button interface that allows users to test the roller shade after installation and also to set the shade limits.

According to the aspects of the present embodiments the roller shade is activated by touching the surface along any portion of the hem bar assembly . The hem bar assembly comprises a weighted bar that runs longitudinally and laterally across the width of the shade. Bar minimizes any movement in the field and properly tensions the shade material to allow for a straight hang of the shade material . The bar is made from an electrically conductive material such as aluminum or other electrically conductive materials known to those skilled in the art. The hem bar assembly further comprises a touch sensing module that detects a user touching the bar . The touch sensing module energizes the entire length of bar allowing it to act as a touch control to actuate the roller shade as will be described in a greater detail below.

According to one aspect of the embodiments as shown in the touch sensing module comprises an outer casing enclosing touch sensing circuitry therein. The outer casing can comprise a shape with a cross section complementary to the shape and cross section of bar . Particularly the bar may be cut short and touch sensing module can be attached to an end of the bar acting as its complementary extension. The bar and touch sensing module can comprise channels and respectively for receiving the shade material therein. Outer casing of the touch sensing module can also comprises an electrically conductive material such that its surface is also energized and can be touched to actuate the roller shade . As such the user can touch any portion of the hem bar assembly to actuate the roller shade . The hem bar assembly can be printed with indicia identifying the raise and lower functions via a single touch and double touch gestures. In addition the touch sensing module can further comprise a light feedback such as an LED indicator to provide visual feedback to the user when the hem bar assembly is touched.

The touch sensing module comprises clips that engage with projections extending from an inner surface of the bar to attach the touch sensing module to bar . Clips preferably comprise electrically conductive material connected to the touch sensing circuit inside the touch sensing module thereby serving as an electrical contact. As the touch sensing module is clipped onto the bar clips connect the electrically conductive material of the bar to the touch sensing circuit inside the touch sensing module . This enables to turn the entire surface of the bar into a capacitive touch sensor.

In one embodiment the touch sensing module comprises an RC oscillator that uses the body of the user touching the electrically conductive material of the hem bar assembly as a capacitor. The conductive material of the hem bar assembly may be covered by shade material or by a plastic layer as the user does not need to actually touch the conductive material but only come within sufficient distance to the conductive material of the hem bar assembly . When a person touches the hem bar assembly the capacitance of the hem bar assembly changes also changing the frequency of the oscillator. When a large enough difference in frequency is detected the touch sensing module registers it as a touch of the hem bar assembly producing a control signal. The control signal is reported wirelessly to the motor control module .

The touch sensing module and the motor control module each comprise a wireless interface such as an antenna. Upon detecting a user touching the hem bar assembly the touch sensing module wirelessly sends the control signal to the motor control module which in response lowers or raises the shade material . In various embodiments touch sensing module communicates with the motor control module via radio frequency RF infrared IR or other communication technologies known to those skilled in the art. In one embodiment the touch sensing module communicates with the motor control module using the infiNET EX protocol from Crestron Electronics Inc. of Rockleigh N.J. infiNET EX is an extremely reliable and affordable protocol that employs steadfast two way RF communications throughout a residential or commercial structure without the need for physical control wiring. infiNET EX utilizes 16 channels on an embedded 2.4 GHz mesh network topology allowing each infiNET EX device to function as an expander passing command signals through to every other infiNET EX device within range approximately 150 feet or 46 meters indoors ensuring that every command reaches its intended destination without disruption. Accordingly in additional embodiments the motor control module can integrate seamlessly with other control system using the wireless interface to be operated from keypads wireless remotes touch screens and wireless communication devices such as smart phones. Additionally the motor control module can be integrated within a large scale building automation system or a small scale home automation system and be controllable by a central control processor such as the PRO3 control processor available from Crestron Electronics Inc. that networks manages and controls a building management system. In another embodiment communication is employed using the ZigBee protocol from ZigBee Alliance.

According to some aspects of the embodiments the touch sensing module can decipher between various gestures. For example the touch sensing module can decipher between a single touch gesture and a double touch gesture. As illustrated in a single touch gesture can be designated to command the motor control module to lower the shade material while a double touch gesture can be designated to command the motor control module to raise the shade material . In another embodiment touching the conductive surface of the hem bar assembly while the roller shade is in motion will cause the motor control module to stop the operation of the roller shade . In yet another embodiment holding the hem bar will cause the motor to slowly lower the shade material until the hem bar is released. Once the hem bar is released the shade material will stop lowering. As such a user can choose how low the shade material should hang. Similarly a tap hold gesture will slowly raise the shade material until the hem bar is released. Once the hem bar is released the shade material will stop rising.

According to one embodiment the touch sensing module is paired with the motor control module of the roller shade and can be chosen to operate at one channel selected from a plurality of channels. For example a room can include three roller shades each operating on a different frequency channel such that touching the hem bar of a first roller shade will only cause operation of that first roller shade. Touching the hem bar of a second roller shade will only cause operation of the second roller shade and so forth. In another embodiment the touch sensing module can comprise a unique identification number UID that transmits along with the control signal. As such a motor control module of a first roller shade can identify and act upon only a control signal transmitted from a touch sensing module belonging to the first roller shade.

In yet another embodiment the motor control module of one roller shade can receive and act upon control signals wirelessly transmitted from touch sensing modules of a plurality of roller shades installed in a room. This enables a user to touch a single hem bar assembly to substantially simultaneously control a plurality of roller shades within a room. For example a touch sensing module of one roller shade can recognize a third gesture such as a triple touch indicating that the user wishes to raise all of the roller shades within a room. The touch sensing module can transmit the third gesture to all of the motor control modules within the room which will act upon this third gesture to raise their respective shade material. Other types of gestures and commands are also contemplated by the present invention.

In another embodiment upon detecting a user touching the hem bar assembly the touch sensing module or motor control module can transmit control signals to other devices including but not limited to heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC lighting shading security appliances door locks and audiovisual AV equipment among others. Control signals can also be transmitted to a central control processor of a building or a home automation system. For example a touch of the hem bar can also control lighting within a room such that touching the hem bar to lower the shade will turn off lights in a room.

The touch sensing module may be incorporated in the hem bar assembly and attached to the bar in various ways. Some additional examples are shown in B. Referring to illustrated is an exploded front perspective view of a touch sensing hem bar assembly according to another embodiment of the invention. Instead of being attached to an end of the bar a touch sensing module can be hidden from view and reside within an opening of the bar . The touch sensing module can comprise a conductive resilient ring contact connected to the touch sensing circuitry within module via wire . The hem bar assembly can be provided with an end cap for closing the side opening of the bar . End cap can comprise clips that connect to projections extending from the inner surface of the bar . During installation module is inserted within opening of the bar and ring contact fits around the clips . Clips connect to projections and bias the ring contact against the inner surface of the bar . Accordingly ring contact electrically connects the touch sensing circuitry within the module with the bar so that it can act as a touch sensor.

It yet another embodiment an open pocket constructed hem bar assembly shown in may include a touch sensing module . A pocketed hem bar construction is preferred by designers due to its clean and unobtrusive design. It does not add an additional architectural element to a partially drawn shade. The hem bar assembly comprises a pocket formed from and integral with the shade material . Pocket is constructed by folding the bottom portion of the shade material and sealing the pocket either by a seam or heat seal. The pocket includes an opening that receives and conceals a weighted bar . Bar runs longitudinally and laterally across the width of the shade to minimize any movement in the field and allow for a straight hang of the shade material . Bar may be secured to the inside surface of the pocket via an adhesive or the like. Bar comprises an electrically conductive material and is cut short to provide space for the touch sensing module within the pocket .

The touch sensing module comprises outer casing enclosing circuitry therein. The outer casing comprises a shape with a cross section complementary to the shape and cross section of bar . Touch sensing module is connected to the bar using a clamp having a plurality of threaded holes extending therethrough. Bar is inserted into a first end of the clamp and touch sensing module is inserted into a second and opposite end of the clamp . Hex drive screws are screwed through threaded holes to retain the bar and touch sensing module . Casing is electrically coupled to the touch sensing circuitry. Casing and clamp also comprise electrically conductive material such that upon connecting the touch sensing module with bar the touch sensing circuitry of the touch sensing module is electrically connected to the electrically conductive material of the bar . An end cap may be supplied to close the pocket and provide a finished appearance to the end of the hem bar assembly . The shade material forming the pocket can be printed with indicia identifying the function of the hem bar assembly . In another embodiment instead of a retaining clamp casing can comprise spring clips that attach the touch sensing module to the bar . As such the touch sensing module can be easily installed and removed in the field.

Controller of the touch sensing module can send wireless signals via wireless interface through a wireless communication link to motor control module in the roller shade drive unit or to motor control modules of other shades using the infiNET EX or ZigBee protocols. In an embodiment of the invention the wireless interface can comprise an RF or an IR transceiver. An RF modulator may be used to modulate the signals to be transmitted from the controller .

The motor control module can comprise a controller a memory an RF demodulator and a wireless interface . An external power supply can provide power to the circuit of the motor control module . Controller can represent one or more microprocessors and the microprocessors can be general purpose microprocessors a combination of general and special purpose microprocessors or ASICs. Controller can provide processing capability to provide processing for one or more of the techniques and functions described herein. Memory can be communicably coupled to controller and can store data and executable code. In another embodiment memory is integrated into the controller . Memory can represent volatile memory such as RAM but can also include nonvolatile memory such as ROM or Flash memory. Controller can receive signals from the touch sensing module or from touch sensing modules of other shades via wireless interface through the wireless communication link using the infiNET EX or ZigBee protocols. The wireless interface can comprise an RF or IR transceiver. An RF demodulator may be used to demodulate the signals received from the touch sensing module .

The touch sensing module detects whether the metal hem bar has been touched by a user and sends a signal of the detected touch to the motor control module . In one embodiment this can be accomplished as follows. The RC oscillator can use an internal capacitor to oscillate at a certain frequency. The conductive material of the metal hem bar is electrically connected to the RC oscillator via a contact as described above. The hem bar by itself has a certain capacitance. Thereby the RC oscillator keeps charging and discharging the conductive material of the metal hem bar . When the user touches the hem bar the user s body acts as an additional capacitor . This property is called body capacitance C . RC oscillator uses the capacitance of the human body as an additional capacitor. Thus the overall capacitance of the RC oscillator is increased causing the frequency of the RC oscillator to change. The increased capacitance lowers the frequency of the RC oscillator. The controller detects this change in frequency. When a large enough difference in frequency is detected i.e. the frequency is decreased below a predetermined threshold value the controller registers this change in frequency as a touch of the hem bar . In another embodiment the touch sensing module does not comprise a controller but comprises a frequency comparator to detect the change in frequency. In yet another embodiment the RC oscillator is integrated into the controller . In a preferred embodiment the controller or a frequency comparator can decipher between a touch and proximity to window shade parts or other objects to prevent false triggers by the touch sensing module .

In one embodiment touch sensing circuit of the touch sensing module is in sleep mode when no touch signal is detected. In the sleep mode the touch sensing circuit retains an ultra low power state. The module changes to a wake up mode when a touch of the hem bar is detected allowing for battery operation. In the wake up mode the touch sensing circuit enters an active power state to perform full operating functions.

The detected touch is sent as a signal to the motor control module via wireless interface through the wireless communication link . This signal can be first modulated via the RF modulator to a format perceivable by the motor control module . In addition memory can store the UID of the touch sensing module which is transmitted to the motor control module to identify the touch sensing module .

The signal is received at the circuit of the motor control module via wireless interface demodulated via RF demodulator and processed via controller . Controller uses the signal to decide how to operate the motor . Memory can store various objects identifying the operating command to be executed by the controller based on the state of the roller shade. An object can comprise a combination of a data structure and a procedure to manipulate the data. The various objects can be represented in a table.

In one embodiment touch sensing module only detects a single touch and transmits a signal with the detected touch to the motor control module . Controller can keep track of the state of the roller shade and operate the motor of the roller shade upon receiving the touch signal based on that state. The states of the roller shade can be temporarily stored in the memory . Alternatively upon receipt of a touch signal the controller can determine the state of the roller shade .

Similarly when the controller receives a touch signal while the roller shade is in a fully raised or opened position the Fully raised object would indicate to the controller to lower or close the shade. The shade lowers until the controller determines that it has reached a fully lowered state at which time the controller stops lowering the shade. However when the controller receives a touch signal while the roller shade is in the process of being lowered a During lower object would indicate to the controller to stop lowering the shade. As such the controller stops lowering the shade either until the shade is fully closed or if it receives a touch signal during the lower operation whichever occurs first. After the shade is stopped being lowered and if it is partially drawn a subsequent touch signal received within a predetermined period of time T would trigger the Partially drawn  T after lower stop object causing the controller to raise the shade. As such the user may slightly adjust the height of the roller shade if it was lowered too far. Finally if the controller receives a touch signal outside of the predetermined period of time T and while the roller shade is in a partially drawn position a Partially drawn  T object would indicate to the controller to raise the shade. The above operating process is merely exemplary and can vary without departing from the scope of the present embodiments.

In another embodiment controller of the touch sensing module can decipher between various gestures and transmit the detected gesture to controller of the motor control module . The properties of each gesture and the respective operating commands can be stored in memory as objects. The controller of the motor control module can keep track of the state of the roller shade and operate the motor of the roller shade based on that state and the detected gesture received from controller . In one embodiment the controller can decipher between a single touch and a double touch. The controller can register a double touch when the controller detects two touches occurring within a predetermined amount of time. Controller of the touch sensing module can transmit a signal to controller of the motor control module indicating the type of detected gesture i.e. whether it is a single touch or a double touch. For example a single touch signal can indicate to lower the roller shade while a double touch signal can indicate to raise the shade.

In yet another embodiment the controller of the touch sensing module can detect a hold and release gesture. The controller can register a hold when the controller detects a decrease in frequency of the RC oscillator below a predetermined threshold value over a predetermined period of time. The controller can register a release when the frequency is subsequently increased above the predetermined threshold value. In addition the controller can detect a tap hold and release gesture. For example a hold of the hem bar gesture can indicate to slowly lower the shade material while the user is holding the hem bar. Once the hem bar is released the shade material will stop lowering. As such a user can choose how low the shade material should hang. Similarly a tap hold gesture will slowly raise the shade material while the user is holding the hem bar. Once the hem bar is released the shade material will stop being raised. In another embodiment controller of the motor control module instead deciphers between the various gestures.

When the controller receives a hold signal when the roller shade is stationary but not fully lowered the Hold and Stationary NOT fully lowered objects would indicate to the controller to slowly lower the shade. In other words the controller lowers the shade at a predetermined speed slower than speed occurring in object such that the user can comfortably maintain a hold of the hem bar. When the user subsequently releases holding the hem bar while the roller shade is moving the controller receives a Release hold signal and the Release hold and Moving objects would indicate to the controller to stop lowering the shade. Regardless of receiving the Release hold signal the controller stops lowering the shade when the controller determines that it has reached a fully lowered state.

When the controller receives a tap hold signal when the roller shade is stationary but not fully raised the Tap hold and Stationary NOT fully raised objects would indicate to the controller to slowly raise the shade. In other words the controller raises the shade at a predetermined speed slower than speed occurring in object such that the user can comfortably maintain a hold of the hem bar. When the user subsequently releases holding the hem bar while the roller shade is moving the controller receives a Release tap hold signal and the Release tap hold and Moving objects would indicate to the controller to stop raising the shade. Again regardless of receiving the Release tap hold signal the controller stops raising the shade when the controller determines that it has reached a fully opened state. When the controller receives either a hold or a tap hold signal while the roller shade is moving objects and would indicate to the controller to stop lowering or raising the shade.

It is contemplated that the touch sensing module can detect other types of gestures enabling custom operations of the roller shade drive unit . In addition as discussed above multiple roller shades can be set up to be controlled by touching any one touch sensing module located within a room. In another embodiment the hem bar may comprise a touch sensing panel with multi touch technology longitudinally superimposed over the outer surface of the hem bar that can recognize various complex gestures and wirelessly transmit same to the motor control module .

In addition or alternatively the touch sensing module of the present embodiments can be used as a safety mechanism. As the roller shade lowers the weighed hem bar may hit a person causing injury. This is especially a concern in large shades with heavy hem bars. Additionally the roller shade may hit an object such as furniture window sill floor or the like causing damage to the object or to the roller shade itself. The controller of the motor control module can detect that the hem bar has hit or about to hit an obstacle when the controller receives a touch signal from the touch sensing module during lowering of the shade material . The controller can register a touch of an obstacle when the conductive surface of the hem bar has been touched or brought close to an obstacle causing the controller to detect a decrease in frequency of the RC oscillator below a predetermined threshold value. Memory of the controller of the motor control module can store one or more objects identifying the operating commands to be executed by the controller upon receiving a touch signal from the touch sensing module while the roller shade is in the process of being lowered. In one embodiment upon receiving a touch signal while the roller shade is in the process of being lowered the controller of the motor control module stops lowering the shade. In another embodiment upon receiving a touch signal while the roller shade is in the process of being lowered the controller of the motor control module stops lowering the shade and then raises the shade by a predetermined amount.

In yet another embodiment upon receiving a hold signal while the roller shade is in the process of being lowered the controller of the motor control module stops lowering the shade and then raises the shade until the touch sensing module no longer detects the obstacle in proximity to the hem bar i.e. when the touch sensing module detects a release of the hold. Upon receiving a release signal from the touch sensing module the controller stops raising the shade. In particular the controller of the touch sensing module detects a hold and sends a hold signal to the controller of the motor control module . Upon receiving the hold signal the controller of the motor control module determines whether the shade is in the process of being lowered. If it is being lowered the controller of the motor control module stops lowering the shade and begins raising the shade. Subsequently the controller of the touch sensing module sends a release signal to the controller of the motor control module when it no longer detects the obstacle in proximity to the hem bar . The controller of the touch sensing module no longer detects the obstacle in proximity to the hem bar when the frequency of the RC oscillator is subsequently increased above the predetermined threshold value. The controller of the motor control module receives the release signal from the touch sensing module and stops raising the shade. Before receiving the release signal the controller raises the shade until it determines that it has reached a fully raised state at which time the controller stops raising the shade. As such the controller stops raising the shade when it reaches a fully raised state or when it receives the release signal whichever occurs first.

To solve the aforementioned problems the aspects of the embodiments are directed towards a touch actuated roller shade. The disclosed embodiments provide a system software and a method for a roller shade that can be actuated by touching the hem bar. It should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the embodiments. On the contrary the embodiments are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which are included in the spirit and scope of the embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Further in the detailed description of the embodiments numerous specific details are set forth to provide a comprehensive understanding of the claimed embodiments. However one skilled in the art would understand that various embodiments may be practiced without such specific details.

Although the features and elements of aspects of the embodiments are described being in particular combinations each feature or element can be used alone without the other features and elements of the embodiments or in various combinations with or without other features and elements disclosed herein.

This written description uses examples of the subject matter disclosed to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the same including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the subject matter is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims.

The above described embodiments are intended to be illustrative in all respects rather than restrictive of the embodiments. Thus the embodiments are capable of many variations in detailed implementation that can be derived from the description contained herein by a person skilled in the art. No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items.

All United States patents and applications foreign patents and publications discussed above are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit or the scope of the different aspects of the embodiments. In various embodiments the motorized shade described herein may be used to cover a window a door a wall opening or the like. In addition the embodiments described herein may be adapted in varies types of window or door coverings such as roller shades inverted rollers Roman shades Austrian shades pleated shades blinds shutters skylight shades garage doors or the like.

