---

title: Method and system utilizing magnetic card key with a QRC
abstract: A method and system for self-service access to a card key locked room of a facility is disclosed herein. A magnetic card key with a QRC is utilized with a mobile application resident on a mobile communication device to activate the card and allow for self-service access to check into a hotel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342939&OS=09342939&RS=09342939
owner: Joingo, LLC
number: 09342939
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150320
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 787 777 filed on Mar. 6 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 985 443 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 625 684 filed on Apr. 18 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to key card reservation technology. More specifically the present invention relates to a magnetic card key with a QRC utilized for self service checking in to a hotel using a mobile communication device.

Checking in to a hotel can be time consuming if done at busy times. Waiting for a clerk to confirm a reservation and provide a room key can add unwanted waiting time to a business trip. Some hotels have self check in check out kiosks that provide a guest with a self check in option. However these kiosks can also be time consuming.

Quick reader codes QRC are two dimensional codes comprising data. The actual code comprises a square with black modules arranged in various patterns. Hara et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 726 435 for an Optically Readable Two Dimensional Code And Method And Apparatus Using The Same has been credited with being one of the first if not the first patent for QRC. Hara et al. discloses the basic mechanism for retrieving data from the QRC.

Yach U.S. Patent Publication Number 2011 0101086 for a Device And Method For Contact Information Exchange discloses using a QRC on a business card to transfer information to a mobile telephone.

Application Programming Interface API is a collection of computer software code usually a set of class definitions that can perform a set of related complex tasks but has a limited set of controls that may be manipulated by other software code entities. The set of controls is deliberately limited for the sake of clarity and ease of use so that programmers do not have to work with the detail contained within the given API itself.

BLUETOOTH technology is a standard short range radio link that operates in the unlicensed 2.4 gigaHertz band.

Code Division Multiple Access CDMA is a spread spectrum communication system used in second generation and third generation cellular networks and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307.

CRM Customer Relationship Management is a widely implemented strategy for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. CRM involves using technology to organize automate and synchronize business processes and the like principally sales activities but also business processes and the like for marketing customer service and technical support.

Direct Inward Dialing DID involves a carrier providing one or more trunk lines to a customer for connection to the customer s private branch exchange PBX and a range of telephone lines are allocated to this line.

FTP or File Transfer Protocol is a protocol for moving files over the Internet from one computer to another.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a set of conventions for controlling the transfer of information via the Internet from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server and Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS is a communications protocol for secure communication via a network from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server by at a minimum verifying the authenticity of a web site.

Internet is the worldwide decentralized totality of server computers and data transmission paths which can supply information to a connected and browser equipped client computer and can receive and forward information entered from the client computer.

Interactive voice response IVR is a telephone technology in which a user uses a phone to interact with a database to acquire information.

Multimedia messaging service MMS communication is a communication transmitted to and from a mobile phone that includes a multimedia content such as a digital photograph JPEG videos and the like.

Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN is a telecommunication system in which networks are inter connected to allow telephones to communicate with each other throughout the world.

Short Message Service SMS is text messaging communication using a mobile phone or other device to send messages up to 160 characters in length.

Short message peer to peer SMPP is a telecommunications protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities.

A SMS aggregator is an entity that provides connectivity with a mobile phone carrier by offering a SMS gateway to send and receive messages and other digital content.

A SMS Gateway is used to send text messages with or without a mobile phone and is used by aggregators to forward text messages to mobile phones.

Telephone Consumer Protection Act TCPA of 1991 restricts the use of SMS text messages received by mobile phones and SMS messages sent without a consumer s consent can violate the TCPA.

Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP relates to communications transmitted over the Internet such as SKYPE.

User Interface or UI is the junction between a user and a computer program. An interface is a set of commands or menus through which a user communicates with a program. A command driven interface is one in which the user enter commands. A menu driven interface is one in which the user selects command choices from various menus displayed on the screen.

Web Browser is a complex software program resident in a client computer that is capable of loading and displaying text and images and exhibiting behaviors as encoded in HTML HyperText Markup Language from the Internet and also from the client computer s memory. Major browsers include MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE APPLE SAFARI MOZILLA FIREFOX and OPERA.

Web Server is a computer able to simultaneously manage many Internet information exchange processes at the same time. Normally server computers are more powerful than client computers and are administratively and or geographically centralized. An interactive form information collection process generally is controlled from a server computer to which the sponsor of the process has access.

Wireless Application Protocol WAP is an open global specification that empowers users with mobile wireless communication devices such as mobile phones to easily access data and to interact with Websites over the Internet through such mobile wireless communication device. WAP works with most wireless communication networks such as CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX reflex iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex and GRPS. WAP can be built on most operating systems including PalmOS WINDOWS CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS and others.

WAP Push is defined as an encoded WAP content message delivered pushed to a mobile communication device which includes a link to a WAP address.

The prior art fails to provide a solution to the current problems of self service access to a room of a facility.

The present invention is a key card with a QRC that works in conjunction with a mobile application on an end user s mobile communication device to associate an identifier for the key card with an identifier for the end user to allow access to a room of a facility reserved by the end user.

One aspect of the present is a method for self service access to a card key locked room of a facility. The method includes retrieving a magnetic card key. The magnetic card key has a unique card identifier on a magnetic strip and a QRC printed on a surface of the magnetic card key. The method also includes activating a mobile application resident on a mobile communication device of a guest. The mobile application is authenticated to the guest to produce a unique guest identity for the guest. The method also includes scanning the QRC with mobile communication device using the mobile application to decode and produce the unique card identifier for the magnetic card. The method also includes transmitting the guest identity and the unique card identifier over a network to an interaction server. The interaction server is in communication with a card key management system. The method also includes receiving the guest identity and the unique card identifier at the server interfacing with the card key management system and registering the card identifier with a room selected for the guest associated with the guest identity. The method also includes accessing the room using the magnetic card.

Another aspect of the present invention is a system for self service access to a card key locked room of a facility. The system includes a facility having a plurality of rooms magnetic card keys mobile communication devices an interaction server and a card key management server. The magnetic card keys are located at the facility. Each of the magnetic card keys has a unique card identifier on a magnetic strip and a QRC printed on a surface of the magnetic card key. Each of the mobile communication devices has a mobile application resident on the mobile communication device. Each of the mobile applications is authenticated to a particular guest to produce a unique guest identity for each guest. Each of the mobile applications is configured to scan the QRC of a magnetic card key with the mobile communication device to decode and produce the unique card identifier for the magnetic card key and transmit the guest identity and the unique card identifier over a network. The interaction server is in communication with each of the mobile communication devices over the network. The interaction sever is configured to receive the guest identity and the unique card identifier. The card key management server is configured to communicate with the interaction server to receive the guest identity and the unique card identifier to register a room of the facility with a unique guest.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a method for self service access to a card key locked room of a facility. The method includes retrieving a card key for a room. The card key has a unique card identifier and a graphical identifier printed on a surface of the card key. The method also includes activating a mobile application resident on a mobile communication device of a guest. The mobile application is authenticated to the guest to produce a unique guest identity for the guest. The method also includes scanning the graphical identifier with mobile communication device using the mobile application to decode and produce the unique card identifier for the card key. The method also includes transmitting the guest identity and the unique card identifier over a network to a remote server. The server is in communication with a card key management system. The method also includes receiving the guest identity and the unique card identifier at the server interfacing with the card key management system and registering the card identifier with a room selected for the guest associated with the guest identity. The method also includes accessing the room using the card key.

The graphical identifier is preferably a QRC. Alternatively the graphical identifier is a barcode. The card key is preferably a magnetic card key. Alternatively the card key is a proximity card key. A proximity card key typically uses passive RFID.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a system for self service access to a card key locked room of a facility. The system includes a facility having a plurality of rooms a plurality of card keys a plurality of mobile communication devices an interaction server and a card key management server. The card keys are located at the facility. Each of the plurality of card keys has a unique card identifier and a graphical identifier printed on a surface of each of the plurality of card keys. Each of the plurality of mobile communication devices has a mobile application resident on the mobile communication device. Each of the mobile applications is authenticated to a particular guest to produce a unique guest identity for each guest. Each of the mobile applications is configured to scan the graphical identifier of a card key with the mobile communication device to decode and produce the unique card identifier for the card key and transmit the guest identity and the unique card identifier over a network. The interaction server is in communication with each of the mobile communication devices over the network. The interaction server is configured to receive the guest identity and the unique card identifier. The card key management server is configured to communicate with the interaction server to receive the guest identity and the unique card identifier to register a room of the facility with a unique guest.

Having briefly described the present invention the above and further objects features and advantages thereof will be recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

As shown in image of a card key is used to access a room of a facility by a guest . The guest has used a mobile application on his mobile communication device to activate the card key for use in accessing the room through a card reader . The guest is able to activate the card key without the assistance of personnel of the facility. The card key is preferably a magnetic card key. Alternatively the card key is a proximity card key. A proximity card key typically uses passive RFID.

As shown in the card key preferably has a magnetic strip which has a unique card identifier and the card key preferably has a graphical identifier printed on a surface of the card key that is used to communicate with the mobile application resident on the end user s mobile communication device . Preferably the graphical identifier is a QRC. Alternatively the graphical identifier is a barcode. The QRC is scanned with mobile communication device preferably using the mobile application to decode and produce the unique card identifier for the card key . The end user identity and the unique card identifier are transmitted over a network to an interaction server. The interaction server is in communication with a card key management system which receives the end user identity and the unique card identifier and registers the card identifier with a room selected for the end user associated with the end user identity.

The end user identity is produced through one of loyalty program information a reservation code or other account information. The network is preferably a cellular network or a WiFi network. The facility is preferably a hotel and the room is a hotel room. Alternatively the facility is a club and the room is a recreational room of the club.

The mobile communication devices utilized with the present invention preferably include mobile phones smartphones tablet computers PDAs and the like. Examples of smartphones include the IPHONE smartphone from Apple Inc. BLACKBERRY smartphones from Research In Motion the DROID smartphone from Motorola Mobility Inc. and many more. Examples of tablet computing devices include the IPAD tablet from Apple Inc. and the XOOM tablet from Motorola Mobility Inc.

Each of the interface descriptions preferably discloses use of at least one communication protocol to establish handshaking or bi directional communications. These protocols preferably include but are not limited to XML HTTP TCP IP Serial UDP FTP Web Services WAP SMTP SMPP DTS Stored Procedures Import Export Global Positioning Triangulation IM SMS MMS GPRS and Flash. The databases used with the system preferably include but are not limited to MSSQL Access MySQL Progress Oracle DB2 Open Source DBs and others. Operating system used with the system preferably include Microsoft 2010 XP Vista 200o Server 2003 Server 2008 Server Windows Mobile Linux Android Unix I series AS 400 and Apple OS.

The underlying protocol at a server is preferably Internet Protocol Suite Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and the transmission protocol to receive a file is preferably a file transfer protocol FTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS or other similar protocols. The transmission protocol ranges from SIP to MGCP to FTP and beyond. The protocol at the server is preferably HTTPS.

A mobile communication service provider aka phone carrier of the customer such as VERIZON AT T SPRINT T MOBILE and the like mobile communication service providers provide the communication network for communication to the data capable communication device of the customer.

A flow chart for a method for self service access to a card key locked room of a facility is shown in . At block a user retrieves a card key which has a QRC image on the front side and a magnetic strip on the back side containing a unique card identifier. The user s mobile communication device has a mobile application that is then activated at block so that the application authenticates the user to produce a guest identifier ID for the user. At block the QRC is scanned using the mobile communication device to decode and generate a unique card identifier for the magnetic card key. Then the guest ID and the card key ID is transmitted at block over a network to a remote server that is in communication with a card key management system. The server interfacing with the card key management system receives both guest ID and card key ID and registers the card key ID with a guest room selected for the user s guest ID at block . The user can then access the room using the card key at block .

As shown in illustration of the card keys are provided by the facility as a stack of card keys on a front desk. A guest retrieves a card key and scans the graphical identifier with a camera of a mobile communication device having a mobile application with a guest identity. The guest identity and the unique card identifier for the magnetic card key are transmitted over a network to an interaction server resulting in the activation of the magnetic card key for access to a room reserved by the guest.

Alternatively as shown in a valet gives a guest a card key with a graphical identifier as the valet takes the guest s luggage. The guest scans the graphical identifier with a camera of a mobile communication device having a mobile application with a guest identity. The guest identity and the unique card identifier for the card key are transmitted over a network to an interaction server resulting in the activation of the card key for access to a room reserved by the guest . In this manner the guest does not need to wait in line to check in to the facility.

A sequence diagram for utilizing a card key with a graphical identifier for self service access to card key locked room of a facility is shown in . A guest retrieves a card key which has a graphical identifier on a front side and preferably a magnetic strip on a back side containing a unique card identifier. The guest s mobile communication device has a mobile application that is then activated so that the application authenticates the user to produce a guest identifier user ID for the guest. The graphical identifier is scanned using the mobile communication device to decode and generate a unique card identifier for the card key . Then the user ID and the card key ID are transmitted over a network to a remote server that is in communication with a card key management system . The remote server interfacing with the card key management system receives both the user ID and card key ID and at a keycard assignment stage registers the card key ID with a guest room selected for the guest s user ID. The guest can then access the room using the card key .

From the foregoing it is believed that those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize the meritorious advancement of this invention and will readily understand that while the present invention has been described in association with a preferred embodiment thereof and other embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings numerous changes modification and substitutions of equivalents may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is intended to be unlimited by the foregoing except as may appear in the following appended claim. Therefore the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined in the following appended claims.

