---

title: System, method, and computer-readable medium for schedule-based telecommunication policies
abstract: A system, method and computer-readable medium for enforcing user telecommunication privileges on a per-schedule basis are provided. Enterprise members may have a schedule associated therewith that defines scheduled locations of the users. Telecommunication service privileges may be coordinated with the users' schedules such that communication services are disabled at particular times based on the users' schedules. In other implementations, particular users may have telecommunication services disabled by an administrator in the event of a catastrophe or emergency. By this mechanism, users that are not proximate to a particular catastrophe or emergency area according to the users' schedule may have services disabled while other users that are located more proximate to the emergency may have their telecommunication services enabled. In this manner, the demand on a cellular network may be alleviated thereby increasing the likelihood that users directly impacted by the emergency may receive and place calls or access data services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413884&OS=09413884&RS=09413884
owner: Tango Networks, Inc.
number: 09413884
owner_city: Richardson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151215
---
This application claims priority of and is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 14 659 226 entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER READABLE MEDIUM FOR SCHEDULE BASED TELECOMMUNICATION POLICIES filed Mar. 16 2015 issued U.S. Pat. No. 9 215 728 issued Dec. 15 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 11 942 568 entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER READABLE MEDIUM FOR SCHEDULE BASED TELECOMMUNICATION POLICIES filed Nov. 19 2007 issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 983 506 issued Mar. 17 2015 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates to telecommunications and more particularly to enforcing user privileges in a telecommunications system according to a schedule based policy.

Cellular service has conventionally been controlled by wireless carrier networks and managed independently of and with no connectivity to enterprise voice and data networks. Enterprises today control their enterprise fixed voice and data networks by deployment of private branch exchanges PBXs . The enterprise may own and manage PBXs within each branch and between branch offices. The enterprise may also manage their own data networks and corporate local area network LAN wide area network WAN . Bulk voice minutes and data capacity may be purchased from land line carriers or from other providers that have purchased bulk minutes and data capacity from carriers. The purchased capacity may then be used to connect branch offices using public IP Network providers e.g. MCI Sprint L3 etc. for Data and Voice over IP VoIP .

A premise with numerous members or users may have various facilities. The use of cellular communication devices on such premises is often prohibited or discouraged. For example some schools have banned cellular telephone usage due to class interruptions and or students cheating during exams by accessing the Internet on their mobile phones text messaging other students for exam answers or by other mechanisms. However there are many cases when it may be desirable for students or faculty to be equipped with cellular telephone service e.g. in the case of a natural disaster a campus emergency or other distress. For example numerous school shootings have been well documented in the United States. In such situations law enforcement may be greatly aided by receiving reports from students or faculty regarding an assailant or other information regarding an in progress crime. Because such cases are high profile and quickly reported by various media cellular systems often become overwhelmed due to students and family members placing calls to other students or family members. The high number of calls placed during such an event can quickly consume the cellular system capacity to the point where calls are unable to be placed to or from a cellular customer in a service area corresponding to the emergency.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide mechanisms for enforcing user telecommunication privileges on a schedule basis. Using mechanisms described herein users of an enterprise or other campus or entity may have a schedule associated therewith that defines scheduled locations of the users. Telecommunication service privileges may be coordinated with the users schedules such that certain services are disabled at particular times based on the users schedules. In other implementations particular users may have telecommunication services disabled by an administrator e.g. in the event of a catastrophe or emergency. By this mechanism users that are not proximate to a particular catastrophe or emergency area according to the users schedules may have services disabled while other users that are located more proximate to the emergency may have their telecommunication services enabled. In this manner the demand on a cellular network may be alleviated thereby increasing the likelihood that users directly impacted by the emergency may receive and place calls or access data services.

It is to be understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of various embodiments. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

With the ubiquity of cellular communication devices it is desirable to seamlessly integrate public wireless voice and data networks with enterprise networks. More particularly it is desirable to provide enterprise cellular solutions that may operate in conjunction with public network infrastructure. As referred to herein an enterprise may comprise a corporation an education facility or any other entity that may have infrastructure to which a plurality of cellular telecommunication users may have access. As referred to herein a member refers to a user of the enterprise infrastructure. For example in the event that the enterprise is implemented as a corporation a member may refer to an employee of the enterprise. Similarly in the event that the enterprise is implemented as an education facility such as a university a member may refer to a student or faculty of the university.

In accordance with the present disclosure the enterprise may maintain a schedule that defines times and locations e.g. a particular building and office or room of the building where members are scheduled to be located. A gateway server inter connects a carrier network s Mobile Switching Center MSC that manages cellular voice traffic as well as the carrier s Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN that manages cellular data traffic with the enterprise s voice and data network. In accordance with a particular embodiment a carrier gateway server GS C deployed in a cellular network is interconnected with an enterprise gateway server GS E . Within the enterprise network a member schedule is maintained and may be interfaced with the GS E. Service Policies may be enforced by the GS E according to the schedule. Further a system administrator may disable e.g. in the case of an emergency certain telecommunication services for particular members according to members scheduled locations while other members telecommunication services are enabled based on those members locations.

Each of SS and BSS contain a number of functional units well understood by those skilled in the art and a detailed explanation of the various components is unnecessary. Nevertheless a cursory review of various components is provided. SS contains a Mobile services Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR and a Visitor Location Register VLR . MSCs carry out switching functions and manage the communications between mobile phones and the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . HLR comprises the central database that contains details of each mobile phone subscriber that is authorized to use the cellular core network. VLR comprises a database which stores information about all the mobiles terminals that are currently serviced by the associated MSC MSC in the present example . VLR stores various information regarding the mobile terminals such as the current location area identity that specifies a particular base station controller BSC that the mobile station is currently serviced by.

Various other sub systems or functional modules may and typically are included in SS such as an Authentication Center an Equipment Identity Register or various other functions. A serving general packet radio service GPRS support node SGSN may be included in cellular network system to facilitate provisioning of packet services to and from mobile terminals in network system . GPRS provides mobility management session management and transport for Internet Protocol packet services in GSM cellular packet networks.

As is understood various GPRS infrastructure may be included in network system to provide packet services to mobile terminals and only SGSN of the GPRS core network is depicted to simplify the discussion of embodiments disclosed herein. In general a gateway GPRS support node may interface the GPRS backbone with an external packet network such as the Internet.

SGSN may interface with various subsystems of network system . For example SGSN may have a Gs interface with MSC and VLR that facilitates paging and station availability notification when performing data transfers. SGSN may additionally have a Gr interface with HLR through which messaging may be performed for example over the Mobile Application Part protocol. SGSN may additionally have a Gb interface with packet control unit PCU not shown of BSS that facilitates connection of BSS with SGSN .

Network system may also include a signaling system such as a SS7 network . SS7 network provides a set of telephony signaling protocols which are used to set up the vast majority of the world s PSTN telephone calls. SS7 network is also used in cellular networks such as GSM and UMTS for circuit switched voice and packet switched data applications. As is understood SS7 network includes various signaling nodes such as any number of service control points SCPs signal transfer points STPs and service switching points SSPs .

BSS contains a Base Station Controller BSC that may be in communication with and in control of a plurality of Base Transceiver Stations BTSs . Each individual BTS under the control of a given BSC may define a radio cell operating on a set of radio channels thereby providing service to a Mobile Terminal.

Network system may also include a Mobile Location Center MLC that may communicate with a plurality of Mobile Switching Centers MSCs and Base Station Controllers BSCs for the purpose of obtaining highly granular location information of a mobile telephone such as MT .

Network system may also include a short message service center SMSC adapted to deliver short message service SMS messages to mobile terminals. When an SMS message is sent to a user the SMS message is stored in SMSC which delivers it to the destination mobile terminal when the destination mobile terminal is available. As is known the SMS message may be delivered via a control channel e.g. a cell broadcast control channel or bearer channel.

Network may include an enterprise network such as a switched Ethernet that interconnects various network nodes via various network infrastructure such as hubs and switches. Enterprise network may include various client nodes such as desktop clients land line Internet Protocol IP telephones and an IP private branch exchange PBX which carries calls over IP e.g. via voice over IP VoIP . Enterprise network may interface with the PSTN via a router disposed at the enterprise.

Likewise enterprise network may interface with cellular network system via routers and . It is understood that enterprise network may and typically does include hundreds or thousands of client devices and networking nodes and the architecture depicted in is greatly simplified to facilitate a discussion of embodiments disclosed herein.

In accordance with an embodiment an enterprise gateway server GS E may be deployed in enterprise network that is adapted to inter connect the mobile network s MSC that manages cellular voice traffic as well as the SGSN that manages cellular data traffic. To this end GS E may interface with a carrier gateway server GS C . The network may also include a softswitch media gateway . From an IT organization perspective GS C appears as an extension to PBX . To cellular network system GS C appears as a standard in network endpoint for delivering calls. To PBX GS C appears as a set of standard PBX endpoints e.g. deskphones or IP clients . GS C mediates between the two disparate sets of network protocols and state machines.

GS C may include the network functions for both voice gateway MSC and data gateway GPRS Support Node or Home Agent VoIP capability for interconnecting mobile network with enterprise network thereby eliminating PSTN interconnect charges a billing gateway and a next generation Network Services gateway that enables third party value added services for the enterprise such as mobile phone activation de activation corporate directory integration based on IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem or other services. Gateway server may also include the element management subsystem EMS and a service management subsystem for the operational support system OSS .

The connection between GS E and GS C may be made over SIP or other protocols. This configuration may enable cellular network system to have a central point of control for interacting with multiple enterprises and may not require the use of SS7 messaging to the enterprise. Rather it is possible to have a secure IP connection supporting SIP. This is also useful for offering a Centrex solution for interconnecting with a carrier hosted PBX or for interconnecting a carrier hosted gateway server with enterprise hosted PBX systems. GS C may support an SS7 point code multiplexer in which only one or two point codes are needed to address all enterprises since GS C can identify for which enterprise the message is intended. In the illustrative example GS C has a point code Point Code and softswitch media gateway has a point code Point Code . Originating and terminating triggers used in cellular network system for routing calls to GS C can add identifying information of the specific enterprise in the triggering messages. Alternatively GS C may identify the enterprise based on the calling party information.

In the illustrative examples provided herein three mobile terminal MT users illustratively designated John Doe  John Doe  are members of enterprise network and are assigned respective mobile terminals . MT is assigned a MSISDN of 1 214 555 1212 MT is assigned an MSISDN of 1 214 555 1213 and MT is assigned an MSISDN of 1 214 555 1214.

GS E may include or interface with an Enterprise member database that stores records or profiles that define services for members of enterprise network . Enterprise member database may include a record allocated for enterprise members that have mobile telecommunication services managed by GS E . In the present example records respectively associate a subscriber or member name with an MSISDN of the member s mobile terminal.

The enterprise may maintain a member schedule database that maintains schedules of enterprise members. The schedules may include daily weekly or other scheduling blocks that specify where a particular member is scheduled to be located. For example if the enterprise comprises an education facility such as a college the enterprise members in this instance may comprise students and faculty. Accordingly member schedule database may maintain schedules of students and faculty that specify times at which members are scheduled to be at a particular location e.g. in a particular class held in a specific building and room.

In an embodiment GS E may interface with schedule database e.g. via an application programming interface API for issuing queries to determine members scheduled locations. Queries of schedule database may for example be issued from an administrator client system . Commands for disabling particular telecommunication services of members may also be issued from administrator client system e.g. in the event of an emergency as described more fully hereinbelow.

The gateway server enables the enterprise to manage and control its cellular service in addition to providing a significant overall cost reduction for telecommunications. Moreover the gateway server includes an overall platform and architecture for improved and integrated wireless enterprise solutions and facilitates convergence between the enterprise s cellular and Voice over IP Internet Protocol infrastructure.

The gateway server leverages the benefits of Voice over IP with cellular to extend the cellular network into the enterprise. The gateway server addresses both cellular voice and data and is a networking solution that works together with the enterprise s existing PBX performing mobile session control functions routing and services for voice and data.

Additionally the gateway server bridges the enterprise PBX and public cellular environments to enable telecom applications for the cellular user such as short code dialing e.g. 4 and 5 digit dialing one number service one phone number for the land line and cellular phone and single voice mail box that services both a user s land line and cellular telephone. The gateway server enables the enterprise to leverage existing telecom assets for cellular use e.g. least cost routing over a corporation s VoIP or leased lines network for discounted long distance use of existing PBX voicemail system etc. .

The gateway server is an application platform for deploying mobile IT applications. Either the enterprise IT department or a Systems Integrator may develop and integrate specific applications to interface with the corporation s cellular devices. For example the enterprise can choose to replace the desk phone of an enterprise member with an inexpensive mobile phone. For this member when they badge out of the building at the end of the day the enterprise security system can be used to inform the gateway server to de activate the mobile phone until the member returns and badges in the next morning. Alternatively the gateway server can track and record calls made outside the office hours and enable the enterprise to charge them to the business to the employee or record them as an enterprise benefit.

The gateway server may be a software only solution that can execute on standard inexpensive Linux platforms. The gateway server may comprise a mobile core network for call handling and routing and services network voice and data services such as PBX based short code dialing voicemail conference calling VPN etc. components. It may be appropriately scaled down to the smaller subscriber base of a decentralized large enterprise in the order of hundreds to several thousand subscribers compared with carrier systems that manage many millions of centralized subscribers. The gateway server is designed to be managed and maintained by the same IT group that currently manages the enterprise s PBX system.

In the illustrative example assume enterprise facility is located in a geographic area of a cell site provisioned by a BTS of cellular network system depicted in . Further assume enterprise network depicted and described in is deployed in facility and is interconnected with cellular network system . In an embodiment schedule based communication service policies are enforced on enterprise member mobile terminals as described more fully hereinbelow.

Fields have a respective label or identifier that facilitates insertion deletion querying or other data operations or manipulations of database . In the illustrative example fields have respective labels of Member Schedule  Location  Schedule  Location  Exception  Exception  and Suspend .

The Member field includes data elements that specify an enterprise member e.g. a first and last name. Field specifies a schedule time during which a member of a corresponding record is scheduled to be in a location specified by corresponding Location field . Thus for example the member John Doe  is scheduled to be located in building Building  in a room designated Room  from 8 00 8 50. In a similar manner schedule field specifies a scheduled time during which a member is scheduled to be located in a location specified by corresponding location field

In accordance with an embodiment GS E may be configured to prohibit communication services to mobile terminals of members according to the members schedules. For instance in an embodiment voice and data services may be prohibited from originating from or terminating to a mobile device of a member when the member is scheduled to be in a particular enterprise location. Thus for example GS E may prohibit voice and data sessions from or to mobile terminal assigned to John Doe  from 8 00 8 50 and 9 00 9 50. Assume for example that an attempt to place a call from mobile terminal is made at 8 10. The call request is first routed to GS C which is configured to recognize mobile terminal as assigned to a member of enterprise network . Accordingly the call request is routed to GS E from GS C for call processing. When the call attempt is received by GS E GS E may identify John Doe  as the member assigned to mobile terminal e.g. via interrogation of member database . GS E may then interrogate schedule database to identify the schedule of the member associated with mobile terminal . In this instance record or a portion thereof may be returned to GS E . A comparison of the current time as maintained by GS E with the schedule results in a determination that the member currently has a scheduled location. Accordingly GS E may then transmit a failure notification to GS C which in turn may notify MT and the call attempt is then terminated or other suitable treatment such as playing a recording indicating that this call cannot proceed at this time. In a similar manner an incoming call placed to MT when the member assigned to MT is scheduled to be in an enterprise location results in routing of the call from GS C to GS E for call processing instructions. On receipt of the inbound call setup request GS E determines the called member is scheduled to be in an enterprise location and may then provide a call rejection notification to the GS C . GS C may in turn notify the calling party that the call has been rejected. Alternatively GS C may terminate the call with a voice mail system.

In accordance with another embodiment exceptions to the schedule based policy enforcement may be allowed by specifying numbers to which calls may be originated or from which calls may be received. For example if GS E is deployed in a high school students may be prohibited from receiving calls or placing calls during scheduled class periods but may have exemptions to allow placement and reception of calls from particular individuals such as the students parents school principal or other person or entity designated as an exception. To this end schedule database may specify exceptions that define phone numbers that students may receive calls from and or place calls to. In the illustrative example fields specify exceptions comprising phone numbers that are to be allowed to be terminated with a member s mobile terminal regardless of whether the member is scheduled to be in an enterprise location when the call is placed or received.

The policy enforcement routine is invoked step for example on receipt of an outbound or inbound call request step i.e. a call placed by an enterprise member or a call directed to an enterprise member. The telephone number of the call request may then be used to interrogate member database to determine the member s name step . Schedule database may then be queried with the member s name step . GS E may then evaluate whether a schedule was received from member database step . In the event that a schedule is not returned responsive to the schedule database query GS E may then complete the call setup step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end step .

Returning again to step in the event that a schedule is returned GS E may then evaluate the schedule to determine if the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location step . For example GS E may compare a clock maintained thereby or interfaced therewith with schedule fields of the returned schedule. If the member is not scheduled to be in an enterprise location GS E may complete the call setup according to step . If the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location GS E may proceed to perform a location check to evaluate if the member is currently located at the scheduled location step . The location check may be implemented as a subroutine for evaluating a member s current location as described more fully hereinbelow with reference to . If it is determined that the member is located at the scheduled location the GS E may then reject the call step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end according to step . If it is determined that the member is not currently located at the scheduled location GS E may complete the call setup according to step .

In an alternative embodiment a call may be allowed within a predefined time period e.g. 3 minutes when a member is scheduled to be at an enterprise location. For example assume GS E is configured to allow a call to or from a member MT if the call is placed within a member scheduled time period for up to 3 minutes. In this instance a call placed by MT at 8 00 may be allowed but a call placed any time between 8 03 and 8 47 would be rejected.

In accordance with another embodiment a schedule based communications policy enforcement routine may restrict communication capabilities based on both a member schedule and location. For example particular enterprise locations may have a communication restriction policy assigned thereto while other enterprise locations do not have such a restriction policy.

The policy enforcement routine is invoked step for example on receipt of an outbound or inbound call request step i.e. a call placed by an enterprise member or a call directed to an enterprise member. The telephone number of the call request may then be used to interrogate member database to determine the member s name step . Schedule database may then be queried with the member s name step . GS E may then evaluate whether a schedule was received from member database step . In the event that a schedule is not returned responsive to the schedule database query GS E may then complete the call setup step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end step .

Returning again to step in the event that a schedule is returned GS E may then evaluate the schedule to determine if the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location step . For example GS E may compare a clock maintained thereby or interfaced therewith with schedule fields of the returned schedule. If the member is not scheduled to be in an enterprise location GS E may complete the call setup according to step . If the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location GS E may then evaluate the enterprise location at which the member is scheduled to be located to determine if the location is prohibited from communication services step . In the event that the enterprise location at which the member is scheduled to be located is not designated as prohibited for communication services setup of the call may then be completed according to step . If the location at which the member is scheduled to be located is designated as prohibited from communication services GS E may proceed to perform a location check to evaluate if the member is currently located at the scheduled location step . The location check may be implemented as a subroutine for evaluating a member s current location as described more fully hereinbelow with reference to . If it is determined that the member is not currently located at the scheduled location GS E may then complete the call setup according to step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end according to step . If it is determined that the member is located at the scheduled location the GS E may then reject the call step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end according to step .

In accordance with another embodiment exceptions or exemptions to the schedule based policy enforcement may be allowed by specifying numbers to which calls may be originated or from which calls may be received. In this manner members may be prohibited from receiving calls or placing calls during scheduled class periods but may have exemptions to allow placement and reception of calls from particular individuals regardless of whether the member is scheduled to be in an enterprise location when the call is placed or received.

The policy enforcement routine is invoked step for example on receipt of an outbound or inbound call request step i.e. a call placed by an enterprise member or a call directed to an enterprise member. The telephone number of the call request may then be used to interrogate member database to determine the member s name step . GS E may then evaluate the destination or called number in the event the call is originated from an enterprise member or alternatively evaluate the origination number in the event the call was placed to an enterprise member to determine if the called or calling party is designated as an exemption for the member step . If the phone number is identified as an exemption GS E may then proceed to complete the call setup step . If the phone number is not evaluated as an exemption GS E may then query schedule database with the member s name step . GS E may then evaluate whether a schedule was received from member database step . In the event that a schedule is not returned responsive to the schedule database query GS E may then complete the call setup according to step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end step .

Returning again to step in the event that a schedule is returned GS E may then evaluate the schedule to determine if the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location step . For example GS E may compare a clock maintained thereby or interfaced therewith with schedule fields of the returned schedule. If the member is not scheduled to be in an enterprise location GS E may complete the call setup according to step . If the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location the GS E may then proceed to perform a location check to evaluate if the member is currently located at the scheduled location step . The location check may be implemented as a subroutine for evaluating a member s current location as described more fully hereinbelow with reference to . If it is determined that the member is not currently located at the scheduled location GS E may then complete the call setup according to step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end according to step . If it is determined that the member is located at the scheduled location the GS E may then reject the call step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end according to step .

In accordance with another embodiment an enterprise administrator may be authorized to suspend the scheduled based service prohibition of members based on the members locations. For example an administrator at system may perform a query for all members scheduled to be located at a particular enterprise location or alternatively all members scheduled to be located at any enterprise location excluding a particular location. Any members having a scheduled location that matches the enterprise administrators query may then have their communication services restriction suspended thereby allowing the enterprise member to utilize their telecommunication services. Such an enterprise system feature may be advantageous in an emergency scenario. For example in the event that an emergency such as a shooting or other disaster occurs that effects one of numerous enterprise facilities such as a particular building it may be desirable for communication services to be disabled for members that are not scheduled to be located at the building experiencing the emergency. In this manner overloading of the communication system capacity may be avoided by prohibiting enterprise members that are not directly impacted by the emergency from placing or receiving calls while allowing members that may be directly impacted to place and receive calls. Notably such a mechanism may prove particularly advantageous from an emergency response team perspective e.g. a police or fire department by allowing the emergency response team to place or receive calls to enterprise members effected by the emergency and that have firsthand knowledge of the emergency. To this end schedule database may include Suspend field that contains a value such as a Boolean True T or False F that indicates whether schedule based communications service restrictions for the particular user are currently suspended. The Suspend field value may be set by an authorized enterprise administrator based on members scheduled locations in accordance with an embodiment.

During such an event the administrator can instruct the GS E to selectively send a SMS message to those members who have had their services disabled indicating their services have been temporarily disabled along with instructions to evacuate the campus. The GS E would ensure the SMS messages will bypass the service restrictions in order to be delivered.

The policy enforcement routine is invoked step for example on receipt of an outbound or inbound call request step i.e. a call placed by an enterprise member or a call directed to an enterprise member. The telephone number of the call request may then be used to interrogate member database to determine the member s name step . GS E may evaluate the member s scheduled location to determine if the service restriction has been suspended step e.g. for emergency purposes. In this instance GS E may read the Suspend field value to determine if the service restriction has been suspended. If the service restriction has been suspended GS E may then allow the call setup to be completed step . If the service restriction has not been suspended GS E may then query schedule database with the member s name step . GS E may then evaluate whether a schedule was received from member database step . In the event that a scheduled is not returned responsive to the schedule database query GS E may then complete the call setup step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end step .

Returning again to step in the event that a schedule is returned GS E may then evaluate the schedule to determine if the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location step . For example GS E may compare a clock maintained thereby or interfaced therewith with schedule fields of the returned schedule. If the member is not scheduled to be in an enterprise location GS E may complete the call setup according to step . If the member is currently scheduled to be in an enterprise location GS E may then proceed to perform a location check to evaluate if the member is currently located at the scheduled location step . The location check may be implemented as a subroutine for evaluating a member s current location as described more fully hereinbelow with reference to . If it is determined that the member is not located at the scheduled location the GS E may then complete the call according to step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end according to step . If it is determined that the member is currently located at the scheduled location GS E may then reject the call step and the policy enforcement routine cycle may then end according to step .

As an example consider the members assigned to MTs depicted in . Assume the members are located on enterprise facility at the time 8 30. In this instance both members assigned to MTs and are scheduled to be in respective building Building and building Building according to records and of schedule database . Accordingly under normal non emergency or other communication service scheduled based restrictions neither MT would be allowed to place or receive a call from anyone other than a designated exemption. Assume that an emergency has occurred in building Building and that an enterprise administrator has supplied a service restriction suspension for any members located in building as designed by the restriction suspension value T in record . Now assume a call is originated from MT . Accordingly in this instance although the member assigned to MT is currently scheduled to be located in an enterprise location the call will be allowed according to the service restriction suspension evaluation at step .

Suspension of schedule based service restrictions may be provided on any physical resolution allocated in schedule database . For example if an emergency is determined to be isolated to a particular room service restriction may be suspended only for members scheduled to be in a particular room while other members scheduled to be in the same building where the emergency has occurred may still have their service restriction active. The geographic resolution of the service restriction may be determined and set in schedule database according to the enterprise administrator s judgment.

In various instances an enterprise member may be scheduled to be at a particular location but for any number of reasons e.g. they are home sick traveling to another location etc. may not actually be located at the scheduled location. In these instances it is desirable to not enforce policy restrictions based on the member s scheduled location.

The location evaluation subroutine is invoked step and GS E may issue a request for MSC and or BSC location area information and receive the location information step . The location request may for example be issued to GS C that may interrogate one or more mobile network entities. MSC level location information provides very general information such as a general location within a metropolitan area while BSC level location provides more detailed information such as specifying a location within 1 mile of a particular geographic location such as a highway intersection. GS E may then evaluate the location information to determine if the MSC location information corresponds to the scheduled location step . If the MSC location information does not correspond to the scheduled location an indication that the member is not at the scheduled location may be provided by the location evaluation subroutine step thereby allowing the call setup to complete and the location evaluation subroutine cycle may then end step .

Returning again to step if the MSC location area information is determined to correspond to the scheduled information an evaluation may then be made to determine if the BSC location area information corresponds to the scheduled location step . If the BSC location information does not correspond to the scheduled location an indication that the member is not at the scheduled location may be provided by the location evaluation subroutine according to step . If the BSC location information is determined to correspond to the scheduled location GS E may optionally issue a request to GS C for MLC location area information and receive MLC information therefrom step . MLC location area information may specify global positioning system GPS information such as a current latitude and longitude. The location evaluation subroutine may then perform an evaluation to determine if the MLC location information differs from the scheduled location by a predefined distance step . If the MLC location differs from the scheduled location by the predefined distance the location evaluation subroutine may provide an indication that the member is not at the scheduled location according to step . If the MLC location does not differ from the scheduled location by at least the predefined distance the location evaluation subroutine may then provide an indication that the member is at the scheduled location step thereby allowing the service policy restrictions to be enforced and the location evaluation subroutine cycle may then end according to step .

As described embodiments disclosed herein provide mechanisms for enforcing user telecommunication privileges on a per schedule basis. Enterprise members may have a schedule associated therewith that defines scheduled locations of the users. Telecommunication service privileges may be coordinated with the users schedules such that communication services are disabled at particular times based on the users schedules. In other implementations particular users may have telecommunication services disabled by an administrator in the event of a catastrophe or emergency. By this mechanism users that are not proximate to a particular catastrophe or emergency area according to the users schedule may have services disabled while other users that are located more proximate to the emergency may have their telecommunication services enabled. In this manner the demand on a cellular network may be alleviated thereby increasing the likelihood that users directly impacted by the emergency may receive and place calls or access data services.

While the disclosed embodiments have been described with reference to prohibiting mobile calls according to enterprise member schedules it should be apparent that enforcing data services such as mobile Internet access short message service SMS or other data services may similarly be implemented in accordance with the described embodiments. The descriptions provided herein related to schedule based restrictions of voice calls is exemplary only and are provided only to facilitate an understanding of the disclosed embodiments.

Although the specific network architecture and nomenclature are depicted and described according to the GSM it is understood that this is done so for illustrative purposes only and that the network architecture on which embodiments disclosed herein may be applied is not limited to any particular standard but rather may be equivalently implemented on any other communications system supporting any variety of cellular communication systems e.g. D AMPS GSM CDMA IS 41 ANSI 41 UMTS WiFi WiMAX LTE etc.

The flowcharts of depict process serialization to facilitate an understanding of disclosed embodiments and are not necessarily indicative of the serialization of the operations being performed. In various embodiments the processing steps described in may be performed in varying order and one or more depicted steps may be performed in parallel with other steps. Additionally execution of some processing steps of may be excluded without departing from embodiments disclosed herein.

The illustrative block diagrams and flowcharts depict process steps or blocks that may represent modules segments or portions of code that include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Although the particular examples illustrate specific process steps or procedures many alternative implementations are possible and may be made by simple design choice. Some process steps may be executed in different order from the specific description herein based on for example considerations of function purpose conformance to standard legacy structure user interface design and the like.

Aspects of the present invention may be implemented in software hardware firmware or a combination thereof. The various elements of the system either individually or in combination may be implemented as a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a processing unit. Various steps of embodiments of the invention may be performed by a computer processor executing a program tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium to perform functions by operating on input and generating output. The computer readable medium may be for example a memory a transportable medium such as a compact disk a floppy disk or a diskette such that a computer program embodying the aspects of the present invention can be loaded onto a computer. The computer program is not limited to any particular embodiment and may for example be implemented in an operating system application program foreground or background process driver network stack or any combination thereof executing on a single computer processor or multiple computer processors. Additionally various steps of embodiments of the invention may provide one or more data structures generated produced received or otherwise implemented on a computer readable medium such as a memory.

Although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described in detail those skilled in the art should understand that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

