---

title: Systems and methods that effectuate transmission of workflow between computing platforms
abstract: A first command may be received from a client computing platform. The first command may include a proxy image. The proxy image may represent an image stored on the client computing platform. An identifier may be associated with the proxy image. The identifier may be transmitted to the client computing platform. The identifier may be associated with the image stored on the client computing platform. Edits to the image based upon the proxy image may be determined at a remote computing platform. Instructions may be transmitted from the remote computing platform to the client computing platform. The instructions may include the identifier. The instructions may be configured to cause the client computing platform to process the edits on the image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639560&OS=09639560&RS=09639560
owner: GoPro, Inc.
number: 09639560
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151022
---
The disclosure relates to systems and methods that effectuate transmission of workflow between computing platforms.

Users often take multiple images with a smart device. The images may not have been captured in the most ideal way. For example the device may have been tilted while capturing an image and or insufficient lighting may have been available at the time of capturing the image. Users may want to edit and or enhance the images.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system that effectuates transmission of workflow between computing platforms. The system may receive from a client computing platform a first command. The first command may include a proxy image. The proxy image may represent an image stored on the client computing platform. The proxy image may be associated with an identifier which may be transmitted from an application programming interface API to the client computing platform. A task may be associated with the proxy image. The task may be transmitted from the API to a remote computing platform for processing based upon the proxy image. Processing may include determining edits to the image based upon the proxy image including an angle to rotate the image and or determining an area to crop the image. Instructions including the edits may be transmitted from the remote computing platform to client computing platform via the API such that the instructions may be applied to the image at the client computing platform.

In some implementations the system may include one or more servers. The server s may be configured to communicate with one or more client computing platforms according to a client server architecture. The users of the system may access the system via the client computing platform. The server s may be configured to execute computer readable instructions. Computer readable instructions may include one or more of a first command component an identifier component an edits component an instructions component and or other components.

The first command component may be configured to receive a first command from a client computing platform. The first command may be received from the client computing platform. The first command may include a proxy image. The proxy image may represent an image stored on the client computing platform. The proxy image may be stored by the server s the client computing platform and or other storage locations. The proxy image may be a downsample of the image stored on the client computing platform such that the proxy image may be a lower resolution image than the image stored on the client computing platform may include some but not all of the content in the proxy visual content and or be a proxy for the visual content stored on the client computing platform in other ways. The proxy image may be generated in such a way to maintain an aspect ratio in relation to the image stored on the client computing platform. The first command may include an upload of the proxy image via an application programming interface.

The identifier component may be configured to associate an identifier with the proxy image. The identifier may be associated with the proxy image via the API. The identifier may include any identifier that may be associated with the proxy image and the image stored on the client computing platform such that the image and or proxy image may not be confused for another image and or proxy image stored by the server s and or the client computing platform. The identifier component may be configured to effectuate transmission of the identifier to the client computing platform. The system may transmit the identifier to the client computing platform via the API and or via other mechanisms. The identifier may be associated with the image stored on the client computing platform.

The system may associate a task with the proxy image via the API. The task may include a request to determine and or recommend edits to be made to the image stored on the client computing platform and or other operations or processing. The task may include the identifier associated with the proxy image. The system may effectuate transmission of the task from the API to a queue. The queue may manage one or more tasks to be processed by the remote computing platform. The system may queue the task at the queue until a remote computing platform is available to receive the task. The system may effectuate transmission of the task to the remote computing platform when the remote computing platform is available to receive the task.

The edits component may be configured to determine edits at the remote computing platform to the image based upon the proxy image. Upon receiving the task the remote computing platform may determine edits to the image based upon the proxy image including one or more of an angle to rotate the image and an area to crop the image. For example a device which captured the image may have been tilted at the time of capturing the image. As such content and or objects captured in the image may appear to be tilted. The remote computing platform may determine an angle to rotate the image based upon the proxy image such that the content and or objects captured in the image appear level. The remote computing platform may determine an area to crop the image. Image cropping may refer to removing outer parts of an image to improve framing accentuate content captured in the image and or change an aspect ratio associated with the image. While rotating and or cropping have been discussed as edits that may be determined by the remote computing platform to apply to the image based upon the proxy image the edits component may be configured to determine other edits based upon image manipulation processes to the image based upon the proxy image including one or more of enhancing colors lighting and or brightness applying filters and or other edits based upon image manipulation processes. The edits component may be configured to determine classifications to associate with the image based upon object recognition within the proxy image. Individual classifications may be associated with a confidence score. The confidence score may quantify a likelihood of success for the object recognition.

The instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of instructions from the remote computing platform to the client computing platform. The instructions may include the identifier. The instructions may include the classifications to associate with the image and or the confidence score associated with the individual classifications . The instructions may be configured to cause client computing platform to process the edits on the image. The instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of instructions from the remote computing platform to the queue. The instructions component may effectuate transmission of the instructions from the queue to the API. Alternatively the instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of the instructions directly from the remote computing platform to the API. In some embodiments the instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of the instructions via a JavaScript Object Notation JSON data format. JSON representation of the instructions may include the identifier associated with the proxy image the edits to be processed on the image and or the classifications to associate with the image. While a JSON data format may be used for transmission of the instructions this is for exemplary purposes only. Any other data format and or data interchange format may be used.

These and other objects features and characteristics of the system and or method disclosed herein as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

In some implementations system may include one or more servers . Server s may be configured to communicate with one or more client computing platforms e.g. client computing platform according to a client server architecture. The users of system may access system via client computing platform . Server s may be configured to execute computer readable instructions . Computer readable instructions may include one or more of first command component identifier component edits component instructions component and or other components.

Referring to first command component may be configured to receive a first command from a client computing platform. The first command may be received from client computing platform . The first command may include a proxy image. The proxy image may represent an image stored on client computing platform . Client computing platform may include one or more of a cellular telephone a smartphone a digital camera a laptop a tablet computer a desktop computer a television set top box a smart TV a gaming console and or other client computing platforms. The proxy image may be stored by server s client computing platform and or other storage locations. The proxy image may be a downsample of the image stored on client computing platform such that the proxy image may be a lower resolution image than the image stored on client computing platform may include some but not all of the content in the proxy visual content and or be a proxy for the visual content stored on client computing platform in other ways. The proxy image may be generated in such a way to maintain an aspect ratio in relation to the image stored on client computing platform .

The first command may include an upload of the proxy image via an application programming interface. Referring to application programming interface e.g. API queue and remote computing platform may refer to functionalities of server s . API may include functionalities similar to those of identifier component . API may include a set of programming instructions and or standards for accessing a web based software application and or a web tool. API may allow client computing platform to interact with system in a limited way based upon the programming instructions and or standards of API . As shown in API may receive the first command including an upload of the proxy image from client computing platform . The proxy image may be stored by server s and or other storage locations.

Identifier component may be configured to associate an identifier with the proxy image. The identifier may be associated with the proxy image via API . The identifier may include any identifier that may be associated with the proxy image and the image stored on client computing platform such that the image and or proxy image may not be confused for another image and or proxy image stored by server s and or client computing platform .

Identifier component may be configured to effectuate transmission of the identifier to the client computing platform. System may transmit the identifier to client computing platform via API and or via other mechanisms. The identifier may be associated with the image stored on client computing platform .

System may associate a task with the proxy image via API . The task may include a request to determine and or recommend edits to be made to the image stored on client computing platform and or other operations or processing. The task may include the identifier associated with the proxy image. System may effectuate transmission of the task from API to a queue e.g. queue . Queue may manage one or more tasks to be processed by remote computing platform .

System may include one or more remote computing platforms e.g. remote computing platform . System may queue the task at queue until a remote computing platform is available to receive the task. Remote computing platform may be busy processing other tasks and or jobs. Remote computing platform may include functionalities similar to those of edits component and or instructions component .

System may effectuate transmission of the task to remote computing platform when remote computing platform is available to receive the task. System may receive a notification from remote computing platform that it is available to receive and or process the task. The task received by remote computing platform may include the proxy image and or the identifier associated with the proxy image.

Edits component may be configured to determine edits at remote computing platform to the image based upon the proxy image. Upon receiving the task remote computing platform may determine edits to the image based upon the proxy image including one or more of an angle to rotate the image and an area to crop the image. For example a device which captured the image may have been tilted at the time of capturing the image. As such content and or objects captured in the image may appear to be tilted. Referring to remote computing platform may determine an angle to rotate the image based upon the proxy image such that the content and or objects captured in the image appear level. The angle to rotate the image may be represented by a number of degrees to rotate the image clockwise or counterclockwise. Referring to remote computing platform may determine an area to crop the image. Image cropping may refer to removing outer parts of an image to improve framing accentuate content captured in the image and or change an aspect ratio associated with the image. If it is determined and or recommended that the image be rotated by an angle and or a number of degrees in a particular direction it may be determined and or recommended that the image be cropped in one or more areas such that the image may fit within particular dimensions. While rotating and or cropping have been discussed as edits that may be determined by remote computing platform to apply to the image based upon the proxy image edits component may be configured to determine other edits based upon image manipulation processes to the image based upon the proxy image including one or more of enhancing colors lighting and or brightness applying filters and or other edits based upon image manipulation processes.

Edits component may be configured to determine classifications to associate with the image based upon object recognition within the proxy image. Many images may be stored on client computing platform . Various content and or objects may be captured and or depicted in various images. It may be beneficial to identify content and or objects that have been captured and or depicted within individual images. The identification of content and or objects may be associated with classifications which may include tags and or labels associated with the individual images. Edits component may be configured to determine such classifications based upon object recognition algorithms. For example if the proxy image depicts a beach with sand water a bird the sun a volleyball net and a volleyball edits component may be configured to determine classifications associated with the image based upon the proxy image including beach ocean sun birds volleyball fun and or other classifications. Classifications associated with other images may be used to identify and or determine classifications to be associated with the image. The classifications associated with the image may be used to search group organize sort and or filter images.

Individual classifications may be associated with a confidence score. The confidence score may quantify a likelihood of success for the object recognition. A confidence score may be associated with individual classifications associated with the image. Continuing with the above example if classifications associated with the image included pool and ocean a confidence score may be associated with pool and ocean based upon analysis of context of the image e.g. based upon other objects depicted in the image and or analysis of the image in comparison to other images including similar content and or objects. The classification of pool may be associated with a lower confidence score e.g. . than the classification of ocean e.g. . based upon beach having a confidence score of 0.99 and or based upon previous classifications of other images including both beach and ocean rather than a combination of beach and pool .

Instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of instructions from remote computing platform to client computing platform . The instructions may include the identifier. The instructions may include the classifications to associate with the image and or the confidence score associated with the individual classifications . The instructions may be configured to cause client computing platform to process the edits on the image. Instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of instructions from remote computing platform to queue . Instructions component may effectuate transmission of the instructions from queue to API . Alternatively instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of the instructions directly from remote computing platform to API . In some embodiments instructions component may be configured to effectuate transmission of the instructions via a JavaScript Object Notation JSON data format. JSON representation of the instructions may include the identifier associated with the proxy image the edits to be processed on the image and or the classifications to associate with the image. While a JSON data format may be used for transmission of the instructions this is for exemplary purposes only. Any other data format and or data interchange format may be used.

System may receive a second command at API . The second command may include the identifier associated with the image and or proxy image. The second command may include a request for a status update regarding the task associated with the identifier. The status update may include one or more of whether the task associated with the identifier is still in queue waiting for remote computing platform to become available to process the task an estimated wait time until remote computing platform may be available to receive and or process the task whether the task associated with the identifier is currently being processed an estimated time remaining to complete the task at remote computing platform whether API is waiting to receive the instructions from remote computing platform and or queue an estimated wait time until the instructions may be received at API and or other status updates associated with the task and or identifier. API may store the instructions received from queue and or remote computing platform until the second command is received at API . System may effectuate transmission of the instructions to client computing platform via API in response to the second command. Alternatively system may automatically effectuate transmission of the instructions to client computing platform via API upon API receiving the instructions from queue and or remote computing platform .

Upon receiving the instructions via API client computing platform may process the edits on the image associated with the identifier included within the instructions. Client computing platform may receive the instructions including the edits to be made to the image e.g. one or more of an angle to rotate the image an area to crop the image and or other edits to the image and the classifications to be associated with the image. Based upon the received instructions client computing platform may process the edits and or classifications on the image. For example client computing platform may rotate the image store on client computing device associated with the identifier by the angle specified in the instructions. Client computing platform may crop the image in the area specified in the instructions. Client computing platform may associate some or all of the classifications e.g. via tags and or labels with the image. Users of client computing platform may search for other images with similar classifications associated with the image organize images based upon one or more classifications associated with the image filter images based upon one or more classifications associated with the image sort images by classifications associated with the image and or group images together based upon the classifications associated with the image.

Referring again to in some implementations server s client computing platform and or external resources may be operatively linked via one or more electronic communication links. For example such electronic communication links may be established at least in part via a network such as the Internet and or other networks. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting and that the scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which server s client computing platform and or external resources may be operatively linked via some other communication media.

A given client computing platform may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program components. The computer program components may be configured to enable a producer and or user associated with the given client computing platform to interface with system and or external resources and or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platform . By way of non limiting example the given client computing platform may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a NetBook a Smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms.

External resources may include sources of information hosts and or providers of virtual environments outside of system external entities participating with system and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system .

Server s may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. Server s may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of server s in is not intended to be limiting. Servers s may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to server s . For example server s may be implemented by a cloud of computing platforms operating together as server s .

Electronic storage may include electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with server s and or removable storage that is removably connectable to server s via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor s information received from server s information received from client computing platform s and or other information that enables server s to function as described herein.

Processor s may be configured to provide information processing capabilities in server s . As such processor s may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor s is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor s may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor s may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor s may be configured to execute computer readable instruction components and or other components. The processor s may be configured to execute components and or other components by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor s .

It should be appreciated that although components and are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor s includes multiple processing units one or more of components and or may be located remotely from the other components. The description of the functionality provided by the different components and or described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of components and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of components and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of components and or . As another example processor s may be configured to execute one or more additional components that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed herein to one of components and or .

In some implementations method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation a first command may be received from a client computing platform. The first command may include a proxy image. The proxy image may represent an image stored on the client computing platform. Operation may be performed by a first command component that is the same as or similar to first command component in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation an identifier may be associated with the proxy image. At an operation the identifier may be transmitted to the client computing platform. The identifier may be associated with the image stored on the client computing platform. Operations and may be performed by an identifier component that is the same as or similar to identifier component in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation edits to the image may be determined based upon the proxy image. The edits may be determined at a remote computing platform. Operation may be performed by an edits component that is the same as or similar to edits component in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation instructions may be transmitted from the remote computing platform to the client computing platform. The instructions may include the identifier and may be configured to cause the client computing platform to process the edits on the image. Operation may be performed by an instructions component that is the same as or similar to instructions component in accordance with one or more implementations.

Although the system s and or method s of this disclosure have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

