---

title: System, method, and computer-readable medium
abstract: A system includes: processing circuitry and a database which stores target data to be accessed by a plurality of information processing apparatus each of which executes a software program that issues a request to access the target data, the request including version information regarding the software program which issued the request and is being updated from a first version to a second version. The processing circuitry is configured to: update the database by transferring data from a first database relating to the first version to a second database relating to the second version; receive the request from one of the plurality of information processing apparatuses during the updating of the database; and determine a transmission destination of the received request based on the version information included in the received request and a condition of whether or not the target data is transferred from the first database to the second database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600271&OS=09600271&RS=09600271
owner: FUJITSU LIMITED
number: 09600271
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20151116
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority of the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 234493 filed on Nov. 19 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In relation to a cloud service there is a case in which a plurality of environments are prepared for executing the same application program when a service is provided to a user by the application program hereinafter also referred to as software . A processing load is reduced by distributing the processing in accordance with a plurality of application programs.

In a case of applying a patch correction program to the plurality of application programs a method such as rolling update is used. By using the rolling update method it is possible to apply the patch without suspending the applications.

In addition each application program stores data to be used in a database DB . There is a case in which a data configuration in the DB changes. As related art in relation to changes in data configurations Japanese Patent No. 2503297 Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 2005 266973 and International Publication Pamphlet No. WO2005 086003 for example are known.

According to an aspect of the application a system includes processing circuitry and a database which stores target data to be accessed by a plurality of information processing apparatus each of which executes a software program that issues a request to access the target data the request including version information regarding the software program which issued the request and is being updated from a first version to a second version. The processing circuitry may be configured to update the database by transferring data from a first database relating to the first version to a second database relating to the second version receive the request from one of the plurality of information processing apparatuses during the updating of the database and determine a transmission destination of the received request based on the version information included in the received request and a condition of whether or not the target data is transferred from the first database to the second database.

The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

There is a case in which a data configuration in a DB that an application program accesses changes due to a patch applied to the application program. In such a case a plurality of application programs are suspended and data configurations of data in the DB are changed in order to avoid inconsistencies in the DB.

However in order to suspend services by the application programs it is preferable to provide a prior announcement about the service suspension to customers who use the services and to obtain an agreement by the customers. For this reason it takes significant time and effort to suspend the services by the application programs. Therefore it is desirable to apply a patch which accompanies changes in configurations in the database to the application programs without suspending the services provided by the application programs.

According to an aspect an object of the embodiment is to update software which accompanies changes in configurations in a database without suspending services provided by the software.

The service providing system in includes a plurality of client devices to a WEB server a server load balancing SLB server a plurality of application servers and and a database DB server . The respective servers illustrated in are physical servers including a CPU and a memory for example. The client devices to are a personal computer a mobile terminal and the like. Hereinafter the application servers and will be referred to as AP servers and also referred to as AP servers .

Each of the client devices to is coupled to the WEB server via a network such as the Internet. Although an example in which the WEB server is coupled to the three client devices to is illustrated in the embodiment is not limited to the example.

In addition the WEB server is coupled to the plurality of AP servers and via the SLB server . Each of the plurality of AP servers and is coupled to the DB server . The DB server accesses a storage device hereinafter referred to as a DB that stores a database DB .

The plurality of AP servers and execute the same application programs software not illustrated . The SLB server selects the AP server or to which a request from the WEB server is to be allocated in accordance with loaded states of the AP servers and . A large scaled service providing system that provides a service to many users is provided with the plurality of AP servers and as illustrated in in order to distribute the load.

In the example illustrated in the SLB server is a management server for example. The management server is coupled to a client device not illustrated of an operator who manages the service providing system for example. The operator controls and manages the respective servers by the client device via a management server.

A service that the service providing system in provides is an infrastructure as a service IaaS for example. The IaaS is a service in which a service provider leases physical servers not illustrated that are installed in a data center to users hereinafter referred to as tenants . The tenants construct desired systems in the leased physical servers as desired and provide predetermined services to users of the tenants.

In the embodiment the application program is a program for providing the IaaS from a service operator to tenants. The application program provides a function of constructing a physical server a function of monitoring the physical server and the like in response to operations performed on a portal site by the tenants for example. Therefore according to the embodiment the database includes a table of data related to setting information of physical servers to be leased to the tenants and a table of data related to setting information for monitoring.

Specifically the client devices to in the service providing system illustrated in transmit a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request message for requesting a service to the WEB server in response to an operation input. The WEB server generates a request to the AP servers and and transmits the request to the SLB server in response to the request message from the client devices to

The SLB server transmits the request to the AP server or that is selected based on load information of the plurality of AP servers and . If the AP server or receives the request the application program that operates in the AP server or performs processing in accordance with the request. For example the application program outputs an access request for instructing access to the database to the DB server . The DB server performs writing in or reading from the database in response to the access request and outputs an access result to the AP server or

The AP server or transmits a response to the WEB server or performs other processing based on the result of access to the DB server . The WEB server transmits the response that is received from the AP server or via the SLB server to the client devices to as transmission sources of the request. The client devices to receive the response and then display information in accordance with the content of the response.

In the service providing system illustrated in there is a case in which functions are expanded in order to maintain competitive strength against other companies or meet demands from customers for example. In addition there is a case in which the program is corrected due to detection of a security hole or the like. In a case of performing function expansion or correction of the application program that operates in the AP servers and illustrated in the operator applies a patch to the application program updates the software .

The patch is data for correcting errors or changing functions by updating a part of the program. In the embodiment the patch of the application program means addition or change of a part of the program in relation to function expansion or function correction of the IaaS for example. The patch of the application program is applied to the application program in a suspended state. The operator suspends the application program and applies the patch to the suspended application program by executing a command or a program.

If the application program is suspended the functions of the IaaS is temporarily not available for the tenants. That is the processing of monitoring the physical server and the like are temporarily not available for the tenants. This may cause a trouble in the service that the tenants provide to the users of the tenants.

In a case of temporarily suspending the service the operator obtains agreement about a schedule of the service suspension in advance from the tenants. However in a case of providing the service providing systems illustrated in to a plurality of tenants it is not easy to adjust the schedule of the service suspension that all the tenants can agree with. Moreover it is inconvenient for the tenants not to receive the service temporarily even if the tenants receive the prior announcement about the temporarily suspension of the application program.

If functions of the provided service are limited during the suspension of the application program and the patch of the application program is applied the tenants are subject to the temporal restriction of the functions. Therefore sufficient convenience is not provided.

Therefore there is a demand for applying the patch to the application program without suspending the service. As a method of applying the patch to the application program without suspending the service a rolling update method is exemplified. According to the rolling update an application program of at least one of the plurality of AP servers and is maintained in an executed state and the patch is sequentially applied to an application program in a suspended state. According to the rolling update the application program is maintained in the executed state on at least one of the plurality of AP servers and . Therefore it is possible to apply the patch without suspending the service.

However there is also a case in which the rolling update method is not applicable depending on the content of the patch. In a case of a patch that accompanies a change in a data configuration in the database service function expansion and the like it is difficult to apply the rolling update method. The data configuration includes data definitions such as the number the sizes and value types of items in tables provided in the database .

In the example illustrated in the service function expansion is expansion of the IaaS functions to be provided to the tenants. The expansion of the IaaS functions includes for example expansion of a function of enabling designation about whether to install a graphics processing unit GPU in setting of the physical server to be leased. As described above the database includes the table of setting information related to the physical server to be leased. Therefore the table in the database newly includes an item for designating whether to install the GPU in addition to existing items by the application of the patch.

In addition the rolling update method can be applied to a patch that does not accompany a change in the data configuration in the database a patch for a security hole or a patch for correcting a function for example .

The table in the database before the function expansion includes for example an item identification ID an item number of central processing unit CPU cores and an item memory size . In addition the table further includes for example an item Internet protocol IP address and an item operation system OS .

The item ID is information for identifying a physical server. The item number of CPU cores represents the number of CPU cores to be installed on the physical server and the item memory size represents the size of a memory to be installed on the physical server. In addition the item IP address represents an IP address to be set for the physical server and the item OS represents a type of an OS to be operated on the physical server.

According to the example of the table in the database before the function expansion illustrated in a physical server with ID M10 is set such that the number of CPU cores is four the memory size is 4 gigabytes GB the IP address is xxx.xxx.x.x and the OS is OS1 . Other physical servers also have information of the respective items in the same manner.

In contrast in the example of the table in the database after the function expansion an item presence of GPU is included in addition to the respective items in the table in the database before the function expansion. As described above the table and the table have different data configurations. According to the example of the table in the database after the function expansion illustrated in the item presence of GPU in the physical server with the ID M10 is set such that no GPU is to be provided .

The application program accesses data in the database in accordance with the data definitions in the respective tables and . That is an application program to which the patch has not yet been applied accesses the data in accordance with the data configuration in the table and an application program to which the patch has been applied accesses the data in accordance with the data configuration in the table . Therefore the data is not appropriately updated when the application program to which the patch has not yet been applied and the application program to which the patch has been applied updates common data. That is data inconsistency occurs.

As described above with reference to the patch is sequentially applied to a plurality of application programs according to the rolling update. Therefore access from the application program to which the patch has not yet been applied and access from the application program to which the patch has been applied to the common database occur together until the processing of applying the patch is completed. Therefore inconsistency occurs in the database . When the inconsistency occurs in the database the application programs do not perform processing appropriately.

It is considered that services are temporarily suspended and transition processing of converting the data in the table included in the database to have the data configuration in the table is performed when the patch is applied to a plurality of application programs. However the database includes a large amount of data in accordance with a scale of the system. Therefore the transition processing of the database includes a large number of processes in accordance with the amount of the data. Since the transition processing of the database includes a large number of processes the service is suspended for a long period of time during the transition processing.

Therefore in the case in which the patch accompanies a change in the data configuration in the database it is not easy to apply the patch to the application programs without suspending the services provided by the application programs.

Next descriptions will be given of a hardware configuration of the AP servers and according to the embodiment and a software block diagram.

The AP server illustrated in includes a central processing unit CPU a memory including a random access memory RAM a non volatile memory and the like and a communication interface unit . The respective components are coupled to each other via a bus .

The CPU is coupled to the memory and the like via the bus and controls the entire AP server . The communication interface unit controls data exchange with communication devices such as the SLB server and the DB server illustrated in via the intranet. The RAM in the memory stores data and the like on which the CPU performs processing.

The non volatile memory in the memory includes a region not illustrated in which a program of an OS to be executed by the CPU is stored and a storage region in which application programs that operates on the OS are stored. In addition the non volatile memory includes a storage region in which a DB access program is stored and a storage region in which a DB background updating program is stored. The non volatile memory is configured of a hard disc drive HDD a non volatile semiconductor memory or the like.

An application program hereinafter referred to as an application program in the application program storage region is executed by the CPU and realizes processing of providing the IaaS illustrated in . The application program is a program as a target of a patch application in this embodiment. In addition the DB background updating program hereinafter referred to as a DB background updating program in the DB background updating program storage region is executed by the CPU and realizes the transition processing of the database in a background. Details of the DB background updating program will be described later with reference to .

In addition a DB access processing program hereinafter referred to as a DB access program in the DB access program storage region is executed by the CPU and realizes processing of controlling a request for access to the database by the application program . The processing of controlling the access is processing of controlling access to the DB server in accordance with content of an access request that is issued by the application program . The access request includes for example processing of newly adding data to the database and processing of updating searching and deleting data stored in the database .

The DB access program calls an application programming interface API of DB software not illustrated that operates on the DB server based on an access request. The DB access program outputs a result of execution of the API as a result of the access request to the application program .

The DB access program is a program corresponding to a DB access module extracted from the application program . That is the DB access module is a module that calls the API of the DB software not illustrated that operates on the DB server and outputs the result of the execution of the API based on the access request.

The DB access program performs processing of controlling the access request in accordance with a patch application state of the application program . Details of the DB access program will be described later with reference to .

The application program illustrated in is either the application program before an application of the patch not applied or the application program after the application of the patch applied . In this embodiment the application program to which the patch has not yet been applied is referred to as an application program of an old version. In addition the application program after the application of the patch will be referred to as an application program of a new version.

In addition the AP server includes a part or the entirety of the DB access program for processing during the transition the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition and the DB background updating program in accordance with an application state of the patch to the application program . The operator stores the DB access program for processing during the transition the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition and the DB background updating program in the non volatile memory in accordance with the patch application state of the application program for example.

In addition the DB server illustrated in includes the DB software for managing access to the database and the database . The DB software is software that performs processing of accessing the database in accordance with the API.

In the embodiment the database includes an old database and a new database in accordance with the patch application state of the application program . The old database is a database corresponding to the application program to which the patch has not yet been applied. In addition the new database is a database corresponding to the application program after the application of the patch. That is the old database includes the table described above with reference to and the new database includes the table for example.

The DB access program for processing during the transition is a program for performing the processing of controlling the access until the transition processing from the old database to the new database is completed. Until the transition processing is completed both access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present and data as targets of access are present in the old database and new database . The DB access program for processing during the transition determines selects one of the databases and to which an access request is to be transmitted in response to the access request and calls the API of the DB software that is intended for the determined database or . Details of the processing performed by the DB access program for processing during the transition will be described later with reference to .

The DB access program for processing after completion of the transition is a program for performing the processing of controlling access after the transition processing from the old database to the new database is completed. After completion of the transition only an access request by the application program of the new version occurs. That is the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition performs an access request to the new database in response to an access request by the application program of the new version.

The DB background updating program is a program performing the transition processing of the respective data items from the old database to the new database hereinafter referred to as transition processing in the background. The DB background updating program converts data that is included in the old database and is not included in the new database based on a data configuration in the new database and sequentially adds the data to the new database . Details of the processing performed by the DB background updating program will be described later with reference to .

Next a description will be given of a flow of processing of applying the patch to two application programs according to the embodiment with reference to .

In the processing of applying the patch according to the embodiment the patch is sequentially applied to the two application programs illustrated in in the same manner as the rolling update illustrated in . That is the operator operates one AP server and suspends the other AP server in the process of the processing of applying the patch. Then the operator applies the patch to the application program on the AP server on the suspended side.

Therefore the one AP server is an AP server on the operating side and the other AP server is an AP server on the suspended side as illustrated in in the process of the processing of applying the patch. In such a case the SLB server transmits a request to the AP server on the operating side the arrow of the solid line in . That is the SLB server does not transmit a request to the AP server on the suspended side the arrow of the dotted line in . As described above with reference to the respective AP servers and includes the DB access program for processing during the transition the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition and the DB background updating program .

In addition the application program illustrated in is either the application program to which the patch has not yet been applied or the application program to which the patch has been applied illustrated as a patch in in accordance with the patch application state. Therefore both an access request by the application program of the old version and an access request by the application program of the new version occur in the processing of applying the patch.

Although not illustrated in the DB background updating program sequentially performs the transition processing in the background in the processing of applying the patch according to the embodiment. Therefore data items as targets of the access requests are present in the old and new databases and in the processing of applying the patch.

Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition illustrated in is operated in the AP server or during the transition processing in the processing of applying the patch according to the embodiment. The DB access program for processing during the transition determines one of databases and to which an access request is to be transmitted based on information related to a version of the application program included in the access request and information related to a data transition state. Then the DB access program for processing during the transition calls the API of the DB software that is intended for the determined database or .

The information related to a version of the application program is information indicating whether or not the application program has been updated that is information indicating whether or not the patch has been applied. In addition the information related to the data transition state is information indicating the transition state from the old database to the new database and indicating whether or not target data has been added to the new database .

In doing so the DB access program for processing during the transition can transmit the access request to an appropriate database or . That is the DB access program for processing during the transition realizes compatibility of the access request in a case in which access requests by the application programs of a plurality of versions are present together and the data items as targets of the access requests are present in the plurality of databases and .

In doing so it is possible to execute the access request while maintaining consistency of the data items in the databases and even in the course of the processing of applying the patch. Therefore it is possible to provide the service by the application program even in the course of the processing of applying the patch. According to the embodiment it is possible to perform the transition processing of the database in the course of the processing of applying the patch to the application program by the DB background updating program performing the transition processing in the background.

S It is assumed that only the AP server with the configuration A is operating in an initial state in the embodiment. On the AP server with the configuration A the application program of the old version operates. The operator generates a new empty database based on a data definition data configuration in the application program after the application of the patch. The empty database is a database which does not store data to which only the data definition is applied. In addition the operator may prepare a program for transition and may generate the new empty database based on the program for transition for example.

S Next the operator switches the AP server on the operating side from the AP server with the configuration A to the AP server with the configuration B. During the switching both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are temporarily in an executed state. After completion of the switching the application program of the old version and the DB access program for processing during the transition operate on the AP server with the configuration B.

In addition the operator applies the patch to the application program of the old version on the AP server with the configuration A that is being suspended. In doing so the application program on the AP server with the configuration A is updated to the new version. In addition the operator introduces the DB access program for the processing during the transition and the DB background updating program to the AP server with the configuration A.

S Next the operator switches the AP server on the operating side from the AP server with the configuration B to the AP server with the configuration A. During the switching both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are temporarily in the executed state. After completion of the switching the application program of the new version the DB access program for processing during the transition and the DB background updating program operate on the AP server with the configuration A.

In addition the operator applies the patch to the application program on the AP server with the configuration B that is being suspended. In doing so the application program on the AP server with the configuration is updated to the new version. In addition the operator updates the DB access program for processing during the transition on the AP server with the configuration B to the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition.

S If the data transition processing by the DB background updating program is completed the operator switches the AP server on the operating side from the AP server with the configuration A to the AP server with the configuration B. During the switching both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are temporarily in the executed state. After completion of the switching the application program of the new version and the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition operate on the AP server with the configuration B. In addition the operator updates the DB access program for processing during the transition on the AP server with the configuration A which is being suspended to the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition.

In doing so the updating of the application programs on the AP servers and with the configurations A and B to the new version is completed and the data transition processing is completed. In addition the DB access program for processing during the transition on the AP servers and with the configurations A and B is updated to the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition.

Next a more specific description will be given of the processing which was described above with reference to the flowchart in with reference to .

S As illustrated in the AP server with the configuration A is operating operating in this will be omitted in the following description and the AP server with the configuration B is being suspended suspended in this will be omitted in the following description in the initial state of the processing of applying the patch according to the embodiment. In addition the application program on the AP servers and with the configurations A and B is the application program OLD in of the old version. In Step S the DB access program for processing during the transition is introduced to the AP server with the configuration B PATCH in and generates the new empty database in accordance with management information. The management information will be described later with reference to .

S In Step S the AP server with the configuration B is activated and both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are brought into the operating state A B in . That is the AP servers and with the configurations A and B shift to a switching state switching in this will be omitted in the following description . As described above with reference to the DB access program for processing during the transition TRANSITION in operates in addition to the application program of the old version on the AP server with the configuration B at this time.

In Step S the operator suspends the AP server with the configuration A after the switching state. Then the operator applies a patch to the application program on the AP server with the configuration A in accordance with the management information A patch in . In addition the operator introduces the DB access program for processing during the transition and the DB background updating program to the AP server with the configuration A.

In Step S the application program OLD in of the old version operates on both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B. However the DB access program transmits an access request to the new database in response to the access request by the application program of the old version in some cases. The cases include a case of receiving an access request indicating new data addition for example. In doing so new data is added to the new database . Therefore the new database is brought into a coexisting state COEXISTING in . Details of the DB access program in the case of receiving the access request indicating new data addition will be described later with reference to .

S In Step S the AP server with the configuration A is activated and both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are brought into the operating state B A in . That is the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are brought into the switching state.

During the switching state the DB access program for processing during the transition TRANSITION in and the DB background updating program TRANSITION in operate in addition to the application program NEW in of the new version on the AP server with the configuration A. In addition the application program of the old version and the DB access program for processing during the transition operate on the AP server with the configuration B in the same manner as in Step S.

In Step S the operator suspends the AP server with the configuration B after the switching state. Then the operator applies a patch to the application program on the AP server with the configuration B in accordance with the management information B PATCH in . In addition the operator updates the DB access program for the processing during the transition with the configuration B to the DB access program for the processing after completion of the transition. Moreover the DB background updating program sequentially adds data that is present in the old database to the new database in the background DB TRANSITION in . In doing so the old database is brought into the coexisting state COEXISTING in .

The process in Step S is continued until the transition processing by the DB background updating program is completed. The state where the transition processing has been completed means a state in which the number of data items that is not present in the new database while being present in the old database becomes zero. The operator determines a progress of the transition processing in accordance with a progress management table of the management information which will be described later with reference to for example. In a case of a large scaled service providing system it takes a period in units of months for the process in Step S in some cases. Details of the processing by the DB background updating program will be described later with reference to .

There is a case in which the DB access program makes transition of data as a target of access to the new database depending on an access request. For example the DB access program makes transition of data as a target of update in the old database to the new database in response to an access request indicating data update by the application program of the new version. Details of the DB access program in the case of receiving the access request indicating data update will be described later with reference to .

In contrast transition of data that is not a target of update to the new database is not made. Therefore it is possible to make transition of all data items included in the old database to the new database in parallel with the processing of applying the patch by the DB background updating program performing the transition processing.

On the AP server with the configuration A the application program of the old version operates in Steps S and S while the application program updated to the new version operates in Step S. During the switching state in Step S the application program of the new version operates on the AP server with the configuration A and the application program of the old version operates on the AP server with the configuration B.

That is access requests by the application programs of the plurality of versions are present together in a period during which the processing in Steps S to S is performed as described above with reference to . During the same period data items for which the access requests are transmitted are present in both the old database and the new database .

Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition is made to operate on the AP servers and as described above with reference to in the embodiment. Then the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the database to which an access request is to be transmitted based on the patch application state of the application program included in the access request and the target data transition state. That is the DB access program for processing during the transition appropriately determines the database to which the access request is to be transmitted.

In doing so it is possible to access the database or by the application program on each AP servers or without causing inconsistency of data. That is it is possible to appropriately execute access requests to the DB server even in a case in which data as a target of access is present in both the databases and with different data configurations and the access requests are issued by the application programs of the plurality of versions.

In addition the operator introduces the DB access program for processing during the transition to the AP servers and in advance in Steps S and S. In doing so it is possible to perform processing of controlling an access request by the DB access program for processing during the transition in Step S.

S In Step S the AP server with the configuration B is activated and both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are brought into the operating state A B in . That is the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are brought into the switching state. At this time the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition operates in addition to the application program of the new version on the AP server with the configuration B.

During the switching state in Step S the application program of the new version operates on both the AP servers and with the configurations A and B. That is only the application program of the new version operates. In addition the DB transition processing by the DB background updating program is completed in Step S. Therefore the old database and the DB background updating program are brought into a deletion waiting state DELETION WAITING in during the switching state in Step S.

In Step the operator suspends the AP server with the configuration A after the switching state. Then the operator updates the DB access program for processing during the transition on the AP server with the configuration A to the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition in accordance with the management information A PATCH in . In addition the operator deletes the DB background updating program on the AP server with the configuration A DELETED in and deletes the old database NONE in .

In doing so the applications of the patch to the application programs on the AP servers and with the configurations A and B are completed and the transition processing from the old database to the new database is completed after Step S.

According to the embodiment it is possible to execute appropriate access requests to the DB server even in the case in which access target data items are present in both the database and and the access requests are issued by the application programs of the plurality of versions as described above. Therefore it is possible to execute at least one application program even in the case in which the patch that accompanies a change in data configurations in the database is sequentially applied to the plurality of application programs . Accordingly it is possible to apply the patch that accompanies a change in data configurations in the database to the application programs without suspending services provided by the application programs .

According to the embodiment the program of the DB software that operates on the DB server is not changed in the processing of applying the patch to the application programs . In the embodiment only the programs that operate on the AP servers and are updated. Therefore since the processing is not performed on the other servers the DB server for example in updating the application programs it is possible to suppress a range of influence due to the update of the application programs .

According to the embodiment the DB background updating program is made to operate in addition to the DB access program for processing during the transition on the AP servers and on which the application programs of the plurality of versions operate. The DB background updating program performs the transition processing of changing the respective data in the old database to have the data configuration in the new database and adding the respective data to the new database in the background. Therefore according to the embodiment it is possible to apply the patch to the application programs and to perform the transition processing of the database without suspending the services provided by the application programs . Accordingly it is possible to avoid permanent conversion processing based on a difference in the data configurations between the plurality of versions and to thereby suppress a processing load.

Next a description will be given of the management information that is used in the processing of applying the patch as illustrated in with reference to . The operator stores a file that is used in the processing of applying the patch in the non volatile memories for example in the AP servers and via the management server described above with reference to through the intranet. The operator stores the management information illustrated in along with the patch of the application program the DB access program and the DB background updating program illustrated in . The operator performs the processing of applying the patch as illustrated in based on the management information.

The list of the correction files of the application programs include names of files before the update and names of files after the update. The names of files before the update are names of files of the application programs before the application of the patch. In addition the names of files after the update are names of files of the application programs after the application of the patch.

In addition the list of files of the DB access program for processing during the transition includes names of files before the update and names of files after the update. The names of files before the update are names of files of the DB access module described above with reference to for example. In addition the names of files after the update are names of files of the DB access program for processing during the transition illustrated in . Details of the DB access program for processing during the transition will be described later with reference to .

In addition the list of files of the DB program for processing after completion of the transition includes names of files before the update and names of files after the update. The names of files before the update are names of files of the DB access program for processing during the transition. That is the names of files before the update are the same as those after the update in the list of the files of the DB access program for processing during the transition. The names of files after the update are names of files of the DB access program for processing after completion of the transition.

Furthermore the list of files of the DB background updating program includes names of files of the DB background updating program illustrated in . Details of the DB background updating program will be described later with reference to .

The management information illustrated in includes names of tables before the update and after the update as targets of changes in the data configurations due to applications of the patch to the application programs . According to the embodiment the names of tables as the targets of changes in the data configurations due to the applications of the patch are the names of tables illustrated as examples in . The operator generates the new empty database based on the names of tables after the update as the targets of changes in the data configurations in the management information for example Step S in .

In addition the management information illustrated in includes names of the DB background updating program and a new DB back updating progress management table. The names of the DB background updating programs are the same information as the list of files of the DB background updating program of the management information illustrated in . The new DB back updating progress management table is a management table indicating a progress of the transition processing of the DB background updating program . The operator determines whether or not the transition processing has been completed with reference to the DB back updating processing progress management table.

Next details of the DB access program for processing during the transition described above with reference to will be described with reference to . In addition details of the DB background updating program described above with reference to will be described with reference to .

Referring to the details of the DB access program for processing during the transition depending on types of access requests will be described. As described above access requests include for example addition of new data to the database and update search and deletion of data stored in the database .

Parameters of the function update are a value table a value version a value data and a value id . The value table indicates identification information of a table as a target of update. The value version indicates a version patch unapplied or patch applied of the application program that issues the access request. The value data indicates data as a target of update and the value id indicates an identification number of the data as the target of update.

The DB access program illustrated in determines the database to which the access request is to be transmitted based on a version of the application program indicated by the value version and a transition state of the value data data as a target of update .

That is the DB access program selects the new database and updates the data regardless of the version of the application program if the transition of the data as the target of update has already been made. In a case in which the transition of the data as the target of update has not yet been made the DB access program selects the new database and updates the data if the version of the application program is the new version. The DB access program selects the old database and updates the data if the version of the application program is the old version.

In doing so it is possible to appropriately perform the processing of updating the data even in the case in which the data as the target of update is present in both the old database and the new database and access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present together.

If the version of the application program that is indicated by the value version is different from the version of the application program corresponding to the database to which the access request is to be transmitted the DB access program converts the value data . Hereinafter the version of the application program corresponding to the database will be referred to as a version of the database .

That is the DB access program converts the data as the target of the update to have the data configuration of the new database in a case of updating the data in the new database in response to the access request from the application program of the old version. In doing so it is possible to appropriately perform the processing of updating the data even in a case in which the data that is included in the access request has a different data configuration from that in the database to which the access request is transmitted.

A code cd in the DB access program illustrated in is a description in a case in which transition of the data as the target of the update to the new database has already been made. The code cd is a description of processing in a case in which the transition of the data as the target of the update to the new database has not yet been made. In addition codes cd and cd are descriptions of processing of determining a version of the application program .

Next a description will be given of processing performed by the DB access program illustrated in with reference to the flowchart in .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive control of a table as a target of update in the new database . In doing so accesses to the table in the database by the other programs are not available. According to the embodiment exclusive management of the old database is performed together by performing exclusive management of only the new database as will be described later with reference to .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition searches for the target table in the new database based on the value id as a parameter.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the data corresponding to the value id is present in the target table in the new database .

S If the data corresponding to the value id is present in the target table in the new database YES in S this means that the transition of the data as the target of the update has already been made. The DB access program for processing during the transition further determines whether or not the value version as a parameter indicates the new version cd in . That is the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the version of the application program that has issued the access request.

S If the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the application program of the old version has issued the access request. That is Step S is for the case in which the version of the application program that has issued the access request and the transition of the data as the target of the update has already been made. In such a case the DB access program for processing during the transition updates the data as the target of the update in the new database .

For this reason the version of the application program that has issued the access request is different from the version of the database to which the access request has been transmitted. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the value data as a target of writing the data as the target of the update to have the data configuration in the new database . In doing so it is possible to appropriately perform the processing of updating the data even in the case in which the access to the new database is made in response to the access request by the application program of the old version.

In a case in which the version of the application program that has issued the access request is the new version YES in S and the transition of the data as the target of the update has already been made YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition does not convert the value data .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition updates the target table in the new database in accordance with the data as the target of the update that is indicated by the value data . Steps S to S cd in correspond to processing in the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the update has already been made YES in S . In the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the update has already been made the DB access program for processing during the transition selects the new database regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. Then the DB access program for processing during the transition updates the data as the target of the update in the new database .

S In a case in which the data with the value id is not present in the target table in the new database NO in S the DB access program for processing during the transition searches for the target table in the old database based on the value id .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the data with the value id is present in the target table in the old database .

S If the data with the value id is not present in the target table in the old database NO in S this means that no data is present in both the databases and . Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition sets information which indicates that the data as the target of the update is not present as a result of the update.

S In a case in which the data with the value id is present in the target table in the old database YES in S this means that the transition of the data as the target of the update has not yet been made. That is this means a case in which the data with the value id is not present in the new database while being present in the old database . The DB access program for processing during the transition further determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version cd in .

S In the case in which the value version indicates the new version YES in S this means that the application program of the new version has issued the access request. That is Step S is for the case in which the version of the application program that has issued the access request is the new version and the transition of the data as the target of the update has not yet been made. The DB access program for processing during the transition converts search result data in the old database to have the data configuration in the new database .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition adds the data after the conversion in Step S to the table in the new database . That is the DB access program for processing during the transition makes transition of the search result data to the new database .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition updates the target table in the new database in accordance with the data as the target of the update that is indicated by the value data . In doing so the DB access program for processing during the transition makes the transition of the data as the target of the update included in the old database to the new database and updates the data as the target of the update.

S In a case in which the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the application program of the old version has issued the access request. The DB access program for processing during the transition updates the target table in the old database in accordance with the data as the target of the update that is indicated by the value data .

In the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the update has not yet been made YES in S as illustrated in Steps S to S cd in the DB access program for processing during the transition refers to the version of the application program that has issued the access request. Then the DB access program for processing during the transition selects the old database or the new database in accordance with the version of the application program that has issued the access request and updates the data as the target of the update.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive release of the target table in the new database . In doing so the other programs can access the table in the new database .

As illustrated in the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the database or as the target of the update based on the version of the application program that has issued the access request and the transition state of the data as the target of the update. In doing so the DB access program for processing during the transition can appropriately determine the database or to which the access request is to be transmitted. Therefore it is possible to appropriately perform the update processing even in the case in which the data as the target of the update is present in both the old database and the new database and access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present together.

Parameters of the function create are a value table a value version and a value data . The value table indicates identification information of a table as a target of new addition. The value version indicates a version patch unapplied or patch applied of the application program that has issued the access request. The value data indicates data as a target of new addition.

The DB access program illustrated in selects the new database and adds data thereto regardless of the version of the application program that is indicated by the value version . Therefore it is possible to suppress the amount of data as a target of the transition processing by the DB background updating program .

In addition the DB access program converts the value data data as the target of new addition in a case in which the version of the application program that is indicated by the value version is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. That is the DB access program converts the data as the target of new addition to have the data configuration in the new database in the case of adding the data to the new database in response to a request for new addition from the application program of the old version.

A code cd in the DB access program indicates a description of the processing of determining the version of the application program . Next a description will be given of processing by the DB access program illustrated in with reference to the flowchart illustrated in .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version cd in . That is the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the version of the application program that has issued the access request.

S In a case in which the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the application program of the old version has issued the access request. The DB access program for processing during the transition adds the data to be newly added to the target table in the new database regardless of the version of the application program . For this reason the version of the application program that has issued the access request is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. That is the data included in the access request has a different data configuration from that in the database to which the access request is transmitted.

Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the value data as a target of writing data as the target of the new addition to have the data configuration in the new database in Step S. In doing so it is possible to appropriately perform the processing of newly adding the data even in the case in which access to the new database is made in response to the access request by the application program of the old version.

In the case in which the version of the application program that has issued the access request is the new version YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition does not convert the value data .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive control of the table as the target to which the data is newly added in the new database . In doing so accesses to the table in the new database by the other programs are not available.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition adds the data as the target of new addition that is indicated by the value data to the target table in the new database .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive release of the target table in the new database . In doing so the other programs can access the table in the new database .

As illustrated in the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the new database as the database as the target of addition regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. In doing so the DB access program for processing during the transition can appropriately determine the database or to which the access request is to be transmitted. Therefore it is possible to appropriately perform the addition processing even in the case in which the data as the target of addition is present in both the old database and the new database and access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present together.

Parameters of the function find is a value table a value version and a value id . The value table indicates identification information of a table as a target of search. The value version indicates a version patch unapplied or patch applied of the application program that has issued the access request. The value id indicates an identification number of data as a target of the search.

The DB access program illustrated in determines the database or to which the access request is to be transmitted based on the transition state of the data as the target of the search regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. That is the DB access program selects the new database if the transition of the data as the target of the search to the new database has already been made or selects the old database if the transition to the new database has not yet been made and performs the search processing.

In addition the DB access program converts the read search data in a case in which the version of the application program that is indicated by the value version is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. In doing so it is possible to appropriately perform the processing of searching for the data even in the case in which the read data has a different data configuration from that in the database to which the access request is transmitted.

That is the DB access program converts the read data to have the data configuration in the new database in the case in which the old database is searched in response to the access request from the application program of the new version. In addition the DB access program converts the read data to have the data configuration in the old database in the case in which the new database is searched for in response to the access request from the application program of the old version.

A code cd in the DB access program illustrated in is a description of processing in the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the search to the new database has already been made. A code cd is a description of processing in the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the search to the new database has not yet been made. In addition codes cd and cd indicate descriptions of processing of determining a version of the application program .

Next a description will be given of processing performed by the DB access program illustrated in with reference to the flowchart illustrated in .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive control of the table as the target of the search in the new database . In doing so accesses to the table in the new database by the other programs are not available.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition searches the target table in the new database based on the value id as a parameter.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the data with the value id is present in the target table in the new database .

S If the data with the value id is present in the target table in the new database YES in S this means that the transition of the data as the target of the search has already been made. The DB access program searches for the data as the target of the search in the new database in the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the search to the new database has already been made. The DB access program for processing during the transition further determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version cd in .

S In a case in which the value version indicates the new version YES in S this means that the application program of the new version has issued the access request. In Step S the version of the application program that has issued the access request is the same as the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition sets the data of the result of the search in the new database as a result of the search without converting the data.

S In contrast if the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the application program of the old version has issued the access request. In Step S the version of the application program that has issued the access request is different from the version of the database as the target of the search. That is the data included in the access request has a different data configuration as that in the database to which the access request is transmitted.

Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the read data as the result of the search from the new database to have the data configuration in the old database . In doing so it is possible to appropriately perform the processing of searching data even in the case in which access to the new database is made in response to the access request by the application program of the old version.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition sets the data converted in Step S as a result of the search. In the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the search to the new database has already been made as illustrated in Steps S to S cd in the DB access program searches for the data as the target of the search in the new database .

S In contrast if the data with the value id is not present in the target table in the new database NO in S the DB access program for processing during the transition searches the target table in the old database based on the value id .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the data with the value id is present in the target table in the old database .

S In a case in which the data with the value id is not present in the target table in the old database NO in S this means that the data is not present in both the databases and . Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition sets information which indicates that the data as the target of the search is not present as a result of the update.

S In a case in which the data with the value id is present in the target table in the old database YES in S this means that the transition of the data as the target of the search has not yet been made. The DB access program searches for the data as the target of the search in the old database in the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the search to the new database has not yet been made. The DB access program for processing during the transition further determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version cd in .

S In the case in which the value version indicates the new version YES in S this means that the application program of the new version has issued the access request. In Step S the version of the application program that has issued the access request is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. That is the data that is included in the access request has a different data configuration from that in the database to which the access request is transmitted.

Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the data read in the old database as a result of the search to have the data configuration in the new database . In doing so it is possible to appropriately perform the processing of searching for the data even in the case in which the access to the old database is made in response to the access request by the application program of the new version.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition sets the data converted in Step S as a result of the search.

S In a case in which the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the application program of the old version has issued the access request. In Step S the version of the application program that has issued the access request is the same as the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition sets the data of the result of the search in the old database as a result of the search without converting the data.

In the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the search to the new database has not yet been made as illustrated in Steps S to S cd in the DB access program searches for the data as the target of the search in the old database .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive release of the target table in the new database . In doing so the other programs can access the table in the new database .

As illustrated in the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the database or as the target of the search based on the transition state of the data as the target of the search regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. In doing so the DB access program for processing during the transition can appropriately determine the database or to which the access request is to be transmitted. Therefore it is possible to appropriately perform the search processing even in the case in which the data as the target of the search is present in both the old database and the new database and access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present together.

Parameters of the function where are a value table a value version and a value condition . The value table indicates identification information of a table as a target of the condition search. The value version indicates a version patch unapplied or patch applied of the application program that has issued the access request. The value condition indicates a search condition.

The DB access program illustrated in determines the database to which the access request is to be transmitted based on the transition state of the data as the target of the search regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. Specifically the DB access program searches for data that meets a search condition in the old database and the new database and selects a result of the search of one of the databases and in accordance with the transition state of the data as the target of the search.

In the same manner as in the DB access program converts the read data as the result of the search in the case in which the version of the application program that is indicated by the value version is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. Codes cd and cd in the DB access program in indicate descriptions of the processing of determining the version of the application program . In addition a code cd indicates a description of the processing of determining a result of the search in the old database and the new database .

Next a description will be given of processing performed by the DB access program illustrated in with reference to the flowchart illustrated in and .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive control of a table as a target of the condition search in the new database . In doing so accesses to the table in the new database by the other programs are not available.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version.

S In a case in which the value version indicates the new version YES in S this means that the application program of the new version has issued the access request. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the value condition in accordance with a specification of the old version.

S In contrast if the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the application program of the old version has issued the access request. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the value condition in accordance with a specification of the new version.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition searches for the target table in the old database and the new database in accordance with the value condition 

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not there is data that meets the value condition in both the old database and the new database .

S In a case in which there is data that meets the value condition in both the databases YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition determines a result of the search cd in . Specifically the DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the value id as a result of the search in the new database is a value that is equal to or less than the value id as the result of the search in the old database .

In the example illustrated in values id that meet the search condition are searched in an ascending order of the values id . According to the embodiment the DB background updating program sequentially performs data transition processing. Therefore ratios of data items that are stored in the respective databases and are different depending on a progress of the data transition processing. That is in a case in which the transition processing slightly proceeds this means that a major part of data is stored in the old database . In the case of searching the search condition in the ascending order of the values id there is a high possibility that a value id as the result of the search in one of the databases and which stores more data is smaller. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition compares the values id as the results of the search and employs the search result of the smaller value id .

S In a case in which the value id as the result of the search in the new database is a value that is equal to or less than the value id as the result of the search in the old database YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition employs the result of the search in the new database . The DB access program for processing during the transition invalidates the result of the search in the old database . That is the DB access program for processing during the transition changes the result of the search to indicate that the data that meets the value condition is present only in the new database .

S In contrast if the value id as the result of the search in the new database is greater than the value id as the result of the search in the old database NO in S the DB access program for processing during the transition employs the result of the search in the old database . The DB access program for processing during the transition invalidates the result of the search in the new database . That is the DB access program for processing during the transition changes the result of the search to indicate that the data that meets the value condition is present only in the old database .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether no data meets the value condition in both the old database and the new database .

S In the case in which no data meets the value condition in both the databases and YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition sets an indication that there is no data that meets the value condition in the result of the search.

S In a case in which the data that meets the value condition is present in any of the databases and NO in S the DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the data that meets the value condition is present only in the new database .

S In a case in which the data that meets the value condition is present only in the new database YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition further determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version cd in . In a case of corresponding Step S the processing proceeds to Step S.

S In a case in which the value version indicates the new version YES in S this means that the application program of the new version has issued the access request. In Step S the version of the application program that has issued the access request is the same as the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition sets the data corresponding to the value id as the result of the search in the new database as the result of the search without converting the data.

S In contrast if the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the version of the application program that has issued the access request is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the data corresponding to the value id as the result of the search in the new database to have the data configuration in the old database and sets the data as the result of the search in the same manner as in .

S In contrast if the data that meets the value condition is present only in the old database NO in S the DB access program for processing during the transition further determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version cd in . In a case of corresponding Step S the processing proceeds to Step S.

S In a case in which the value version indicates the new version YES in S this means that the application program of the new version has issued the access request. In Step S the version of the application program that has issued the access request is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition converts the data corresponding to the value id as the result of the search in the old database to have the data configuration in the new database and sets the data as the result of the search in the same manner as in .

S In a case in which the value version indicates the old version NO in S the version of the application program that has issued the access request is the same as the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. Therefore the DB access program for processing during the transition sets the data corresponding to the value id as the result of the search in the old database as the result of the search without converting the data.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive release of the target table in the new database . In doing so the other programs can access the table in the new database .

As illustrated in the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the database or to which the access request is to be transmitted based on the transition state of the data regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. Therefore it is possible to appropriately perform the condition search processing even in the case in which the data as the target of the search is present in both the old database and the new database and access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present together.

Parameters of the function all is a value table a value version and a value condition . The respective values are the same as those in . The DB access program illustrated in determines a database to which the access request is to be transmitted based on the transition state of the data as the target of the search regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. Specifically the DB access program searches for data that meets the search condition in the old database and the new database in accordance with the transition state of the data and sums up the results of the search in both the databases so as not cause overlapping.

In addition the DB access program illustrated in converts the read data of the result of the search in a case in which the version of the application program that is indicated by the value version is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. This is the same as the conversion processing for the condition search one case illustrated in . A code cd in the DB access program in indicates a description of processing of determining the version of the application program .

Next a description will be given of processing performed by the DB access program illustrated in with reference to the flowchart in .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition further determines whether or not the value version indicates the new version cd in .

S In a case in which the value version indicates the new version YES in S this means that the application program of the new version has issued the access request. The DB access program for processing during the transition sets all the data items that meet the value condition in the new database as results of the search.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition converts data that is not present in the new database from among the data items that meet the value condition in the old database to have the data configuration in the new database and adds the data to the results of the search. In doing so the DB access program for processing during the transition sums up the results of the search in the old database and the new database .

S In a case in which the value version indicates the old version NO in S this means that the application program of the old version has issued the access request. The DB access program for processing during the transition converts all the data items that meet the value condition in the new database to have the data configuration in the old database and sets the data as results of the search.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition adds data that is not present in the new database from among the data items that meet the value condition in the old database to the results of the search. In doing so the DB access program for processing during the transition sums up the results of the search in the old database and the new database .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive release of the target table in the new database . In doing so the other programs can access the table in the new database .

As illustrated in the DB access program for processing during the transition selects the database or as the target of the search of a plurality of data items regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request. Therefore it is possible to appropriately perform the condition search processing even in the case in which the data as the target of the search is present in both the old database and the new database and access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present together.

Parameters of the function destroy is a value table a value version and a value id . The value table indicates identification information of a table as a target of deletion. The value version indicates a version patch unapplied or patch applied of the application program that has issued the access request. The value id indicates identification information of data as a target of the deletion.

The DB access program illustrated in determines the database to which the access request is to be transmitted based on a transition state of a DB of the value data data as the target of the deletion regardless of the version of the application program that is indicated by the value version . That is the DB access program deletes the target data from both the databases and in a case in which the target data is present in the new database as well as the old database .

As described above the DB access program for processing during the transition may select the plurality of databases and . A code cd in the DB access program is a description of processing in a case in which transition of the data as the target of the deletion to the new database has already been made.

Next a description will be given of processing performed by the DB access program illustrated in with reference to the flowchart illustrated in .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive control of a table as a target of deletion in the new database . In doing so the accesses to the table in the new database by the other programs are not available.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition searches for the target table in the old database based on the value id as a parameter.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not data with the value id is present in the target table in the old database .

S In a case in which the data corresponding to the value id is present in the target table in the old database YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition deletes the data corresponding to the value id from the old database .

S The DB access program for processing during the transition searches for the target table in the new database based on the value id as a parameter.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition determines whether or not the data with the value id is present in the target table in the new database .

S In a case in which the data corresponding to the value id is present in the target table in the new database YES in S the DB access program for processing during the transition deletes the data corresponding to the value id from the new database . In the case in which the transition of the data as the target of the deletion has already been made YES in S as illustrated in Steps S and S cd in the DB access program for processing during the transition further determines the new database as the database as the target of the deletion.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition sets a return value. The DB access program for processing during the transition sets a value SUCCESS that indicates success as the return value in a case in which the data corresponding to the value id is present in any of the old database and the new database YES in S or YES in S . In contrast if the value corresponding to the value id is not present in any of the old database and the new database NO in S and NO in S the DB access program for processing during the transition sets a value ERROR that indicates an error as the return value.

S The DB access program for processing during the transition performs exclusive release of the target table in the new database . In doing so the other programs can access the table in the new database .

As illustrated in the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the database or as the target of the deletion in accordance with the transition state of the data as the target of the deletion regardless of the version of the application program . Therefore it is possible to appropriately perform the deletion processing even in the case in which the data as the target of the deletion is present in both the old database and the new database and access requests by the application programs of the old and new versions are present together.

The DB access program illustrated in includes a function lock for performing exclusive control of entire tables. In addition the DB access program includes a function unlock for performing exclusive release of the entire tables. The function lock and the function unlock are for performing the exclusive control and the exclusive release of tables only in the new database .

According to the embodiment the DB access program to for processing during the transition performs processing of accessing the new database and processing of accessing the old database as a set. Therefore exclusive management of both the databases and is realized by performing exclusive management of only the new database from among the old database and the new database . In doing so it is possible to reduce the processing amount in the exclusive control and to suppress a load on the programs.

In addition the DB access program illustrated in includes a function lock for performing exclusive control of one data item. In addition the DB access program includes a function unlock for performing exclusive release of one data item. The DB access programs and also realize exclusive management of both the databases and by performing the exclusive control or the exclusive release of the table only in the new database in the same manner. In doing so it is possible to reduce the processing amount in the exclusive control and to suppress a load on the programs.

According to the embodiment the processing of converting data as a target of access does not occur after completion of the data transition processing performed by the DB background updating program . The conversion processing is processing of converting data illustrated in in a case in which the version of the application program that has issued the access request is different from the version of the database to which the access request is transmitted. That is the conversion processing corresponds to Step S in Step S in or Steps S and S in for example. Therefore according to the embodiment it is possible to avoid permanent occurrence of the processing of converting the data and to thereby suppress a load caused by the processing of converting the data.

A code cd in the DB background updating program illustrated in indicates a description of processing of converting the data in the old database to have the data configuration in the new database and adding the data to the new database .

S The DB background updating program determines whether or not transition processing of all the tables from the old database to the new database has been completed.

S In a case in which the transition processing of all the tables has been completed YES in S the DB background updating program provides information CLEAN indicating that the transition processing has been completed and completes the processing.

S In contrast if the transition has not been completed NO in S the DB background updating program performs exclusive control of the target table in the new database . In doing so accesses to the table in the new database by the other programs are not available.

S The DB background updating program determines whether or not the exclusive control of the target table in the new database has already been made.

S In a case in which the exclusive control of the target table in the new database has already been made YES in S this means that another program is using the target table. Therefore the DB background updating program provides information indicating that the database is being used BUSY and completes the processing. In the case in which the database is being used the DB background updating program performs the transition processing at another timing.

S In contrast if the exclusive control of the target table in the new database has not been made NO in S the DB background updating program searches for data in the target table in the old database .

S The DB background updating program determines whether or not the target table in the old database is empty. If there is no data in the target table in the old database YES in S the DB background updating program moves on to the aforementioned Step S.

S In a case in which there is data in the target table in the old database NO in S the DB background updating program further searches for the data which has been searched in the old database in the new database .

S The DB background updating program determines whether or not the data that has been searched in the old database is present in the new database . That is the DB background updating program searches for data that is present in the old database while being not present in the new database .

S In a case in which the data that has been searched in the old database is not present in the new database NO in S this means that the searched data is present only in the old database . Therefore the DB background updating program converts the data that has been searched in the old database to have the data configuration in the new database and adds the data to the new database . In a case in which the data that has been searched in the old database is also present in the new database YES in S the DB background updating program does not perform the processing in Step S.

S The DB background updating program deletes the data that has been searched in the old database in Step S from the old database . Therefore the number of data items included in the old database becomes zero when transition of all the data items has been completed for example.

S The DB background updating program performs exclusive release of the target table in the new database .

As described above with reference to the DB background updating program completes the transition processing of all the data items by repeating the processing described above with reference to . If the transition processing is completed the old database becomes empty.

The embodiment was described as the example in which the AP servers and were physical servers. However the embodiment is not limited to the example. The AP servers and may be virtual servers. In addition the embodiment was described as the example in which the patch was sequentially applied to the application program that operates on the two AP servers an . However the embodiment is not limited to the example. The DB access program for processing during the transition according to the embodiment is also effective for a case in which the patch is sequentially applied to the application program that operates on three or more AP servers and

As illustrated in the DB background updating program is introduced only to the AP server with the configuration A in this embodiment. However the embodiment is not limited to the example. The operator may introduce the DB background updating program to the AP server with the configuration B as well as the AP server with the configuration A. In addition the processing of sequentially applying the patch to the application program on the AP server with the configuration A and the AP server with the configuration B is also not limited to the example illustrated in . Any configuration is also applicable as long as the DB access program for processing during the transition operates while the patch is sequentially applied to the application program that operates on the plurality of AP servers and

In addition the examples of the DB access program for processing during the transition in accordance with the types of the access request were described with reference to . However the processing performed by the DB access program for processing during the transition illustrated in is an example.

For example a case of receiving an access request for update processing will be exemplified. In the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the database or in accordance with the version of the application program that has issued the access request if the transition of the target data has not yet been made. In addition the DB access program for processing during the transition determines the new database as the database to which the access request is to be transmitted regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request if the transition of the target data has already been made.

However the DB access program for processing during the transition may determine the new database as the database to which the access request is to be transmitted regardless of the version of the application program that has issued the access request if the transition of the target data has not yet been made.

Similarly the cases of receiving other types of access request are not limited to the examples of the processing performed by the DB access program for processing during the transition as illustrated in . The DB access program for processing during the transition according to the embodiment determines the target database or based on the information related to the version of the application program that is included in the access request and the information related to the transition of the target data. In addition the DB access program for processing during the transition according to the embodiment may determine both the databases and .

All examples and conditional language provided herein are intended for the pedagogical purposes of aiding the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to further the art and are not to be construed as limitations to such specifically recited examples and conditions nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority and inferiority of the invention. Although one or more embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it should be understood that the various changes substitutions and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

