---

title: Lost and found system for personal items
abstract: A system for facilitating the recovery of a user's lost item is provided that makes use of tags the user applies to the item and an interactive voice response (IVR) system. When a finder of the item calls a phone number displayed on the tag, the finder is directed to the IVR system. The finder is prompted to identify the item by providing a unique code displayed on the tag. Once the finder provides the unique code, a server in the system receives the phone number and unique code from the IVR system and verifies if there is a user associated with the tag. If so, the server sends a response back to the IVR system to obtain the finder's message indicating the location of the item. After the finder leaves a message, the message is transmitted automatically to the user in real time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569950&OS=09569950&RS=09569950
owner: EIDTAG, LLC
number: 09569950
owner_city: Redondo Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151229
---
The present invention generally relates to a lost and found system for personal items and more particularly relates to a system for facilitating the recovery of a lost item of a user using interactive voice response technology.

The problem of locating lost items has troubled people for years. The typical situation arises when people misplace their car key house key cell phone wallet or purse. After coming to terms with the momentary shock that such a loss may evoke people generally find themselves checking every possible location where the lost item could be or calling or visiting a myriad of places where they recently went many times to no avail. The sheer number of portable objects that exist in the world today ranging from jewelry and electronic devices to vehicles and luggage has made this problem all the more widespread. Consequently a need has arisen for an improved system that assists people in recovering their missing items.

Some people have attempted to prevent permanent loss of their items by affixing their contact information to their items for finders to call. The idea behind the approach is that if an owner of an item accidentally misplaces their item in a public place a finder or passerby who happens to come across the item can notify the owner of the missing item. However this approach is unfavorable to owners or finders who desire to maintain their privacy. For example owners may not want to leave their phone number or address in public view for other people to see and finders who call owners to report missing items may not want their phone number to appear on the owners caller ID.

Alternatively many people have attempted to use tracking devices and mobile applications that use cellular global position satellite GPS or Bluetooth technology to assist them in locating their lost items. Typical examples of tracking devices include tags having wireless chips that when affixed to lost objects communicate their location to a software application on a mobile device. However the use of tracking devices and mobile applications are not always dependable. For instance tracking devices that use Bluetooth technology typically only work if the owner is in close proximity to the lost item. If the owner lost the item in a location not proximal to the owner such as on a moving bus or at a far away destination then the tracking device will not operate.

Furthermore the location of the missing object itself may interfere with the tracking device or software application. For example if the tracking device uses GPS technology and the lost item is located in an area with questionable satellite reception such as an underground subway then the owner may be unable to find the lost item because the GPS location of the object will be difficult to pinpoint. Moreover if the lost object is the tracking device or carrier of the software application itself such as a smartphone or tablet then the technology is evidently useless for finding the lost item. Additionally low battery power and sporadic wireless connection failures may also render the tracking device ineffectual.

Hence there is a need for a system that facilitates the recovery of an owner s lost item while protecting the privacy of owners and finders. There is a further need for a system that facilitates the recovery of a lost item without depending on wireless tracking devices or software applications that use GPS or Bluetooth technology. The present invention meets this and other needs.

The present invention provides for a lost and found system for personal items or more particularly a system for facilitating the recovery of a lost item. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention one or more tags are provided to a subscriber of the lost and found system such as a user that are configured to be attached or adhered to any portable item of the subscriber. Each tag includes a phone number and a unique code for identifying the tag. If the user were to lose a tagged item and a finder happens to locate the tagged item the system allows for the finder to easily report the location of the lost item and allows for the user to easily recover the lost item from the finder s message.

Specifically the lost and found system of the present invention facilitates the recovery of lost items by making use of a web application that interacts with a separately provided interactive voice response IVR system. As used herein an IVR system is an automated attendant telephone system or other communication system that interactively responds to a finder using data extracted from one or more databases in communication with a web server running the web application. The IVR system receives this data through an IVR application programming interface API which serves as the communications interface through which the IVR system communicates with the web server and the one or more databases. In the lost and found system the IVR system transmits information received from a finder of a user s lost item to the one or more databases through the IVR API Likewise the IVR system receives data accessed from the one or more databases through the IVR API to interactively respond to the finder.

The IVR system is configurably associated with one or more telephone numbers that a finder can call to access the IVR system. The IVR system is configurable to prompt the finder with one or more questions to receive answers to the one or more questions from the finder and to interactively respond to the finder after communicating with one or more databases using the IVR API. In the lost and found system the IVR system is configurable to ask a finder who calls the IVR system to provide the unique code of the tag affixed to the user s lost item to receive the unique code from the finder to transmit the unique code to the web server through the IVR API to be processed and compared against the one or more databases to receive a response processed from the comparison with the one or more databases through the IVR API and to prompt the finder to leave a voice message reporting the location of the lost item or to re enter the correct unique code depending on the response received. The IVR system is further configurable to transmit the finder s recorded voice message to the web server using the IVR API to be stored in a file system for the web application where a reference to its file location is stored in the one or more databases.

The IVR system is also configurable to make calls to users and to interactively communicate with users based on data obtained from the one or more databases. In the lost and found system the IVR system is configurable to receive a phone number of a user from the one or more databases through the IVR API to automatically call the phone number of the user and to play the finder s recorded voice message in the form of an audio file for the user thereby reporting the finder s information to the user regarding the location of the user s missing item. Moreover the lost and found system transmits a written message to the user informing the user that the missing item has been located and including the audio file of the finder s recorded voice message. For example the lost and found system may send the user an e mail or text including the audio file as a hyperlink or attachment which when activated by the user plays the finder s recorded voice message in WAV format. Alternatively the IVR system in the lost and found system may be configurable to receive a transcribed version of the audio file from the database using the IVR API and to send the transcribed version of the audio file in the form of a written message to the user. In some cases the IVR system may itself be configurable to transcribe an audio file to be sent to the user as a written message.

According to the preferred embodiment of the present invention a finder of a user s lost item calls the phone number displayed on the tag affixed to the item. When the finder calls the phone number the finder is directed to the IVR system. The finder is then prompted by the IVR system to identify the lost tagged item by providing the unique code displayed on the tag for example through telephone keypad input. Once the finder provides the unique code of the tag to the IVR system a server in the lost and found system receives the phone number and unique code from the IVR system through the IVR API. The phone number and unique code are combined to form the unique identifier of the tag which is compared against a database containing unique identifiers to determine if there is an active matching tag. If the unique identifier of the tag is found in the database the server sends a response back to the IVR system using the IVR API to obtain and record the finder s message indicating the location of the found item.

Once the finder leaves a message with the IVR system indicating the location of the item the server receives the finder s message in the form of an audio file through the IVR API stores it in its memory and stores a path to its file location in the database. Immediately afterwards the server accesses the phone number associated with the active tag for the found item and transmits it to the IVR system through the IVR API. Where the phone number associated with the active tag is that of the user itself the IVR system receives the user s phone number calls the user and automatically plays the recorded finder s message to the user reporting the location of the missing item. Alternatively where the phone number associated with the active tag is that of a notification recipient that the user designated as the person to receive the recorded finder s message on the user s behalf the server accesses the phone number of the notification recipient and the IVR system calls and plays the recorded finder s message to the notification recipient. Additionally the server sends to the user or user s notification recipient a written message such as an e mail or text that includes the audio file of the finder s message by means of a hyperlink attachment or using transcription.

The lost and found system also allows a finder to submit the phone number and unique code displayed on the tag and report the missing item without having to call the IVR system. In particular the lost and found system includes a website on which the finder may electronically submit the phone number and unique code of the tag to the web server. The phone number and unique code are combined to form the unique identifier of the tag which is compared against the database to determine if there is an active matching tag. If the unique identifier of the tag is found in the database the lost and found system requests the finder to electronically submit the finder s written message indicating the location of the item to the server. Additionally the lost and found system requests the finder to electronically submit information related to the location of the missing item to the server including for example the name of the location where the missing item can be found its address city and state and pickup instructions to the user to obtain the lost item. The finder s written message is then transmitted from the server directly to the user or the notification recipient by e mail text or other conventional means of written communication.

Preferably a user obtains tags to affix to the user s portable items by subscribing directly to the lost and found system. Alternatively the user indirectly obtains tags from the lost and found system by receiving tags from other subscribing entities including resellers and fundraisers. In particular users obtain tags from resellers by purchasing portable items of the resellers having tags already attached and users obtain tags from fundraisers by participating in fundraising efforts and receiving the tags directly from fundraisers. In one embodiment of the present invention the one or more telephone numbers printed on the tags and associated with the IVR system differ depending on whether the user obtained the tags directly from the lost and found system or indirectly from fundraisers or resellers. In another embodiment the one or more telephone numbers are different for tags applied to the user s pets and the IVR system is configurable in the lost and found system to request special instructions from finders to be recorded pertaining to the recovery of a user s missing pet. Regardless of the source of the tags and the differing phone numbers the lost and found system allows users to locate their missing items by combining a phone number and a unique code into a unique identifier that is stored in the database for identifying the user s particular tag.

In the preferred embodiment of the lost and found system tags associated with subscribers must be activated before finders can report the location of lost and tagged items. In particular when a user obtains a sheet of tags a user is provided a registration code that the user must register with the lost and found system to activate the sheet of tags. Once the user submits the registration code to the lost and found system the registration code is compared against a database containing registration codes that are associated with the tags. If the registration code is found in the database the lost and found system activates the tags associated with the registration code rendering the tags operational. In an alternative embodiment of the lost and found system the tags are pre activated in the database before they are provided to the user and thus the user may use the tags in the lost and found system without having to register the tags.

The lost and found system includes a website on which subscribers such as users fundraisers and resellers may subscribe to the lost and found system and order tags. Subscribers provide subscription data to the lost and found system including their contact information such as names addresses e mail addresses and phone numbers as well as shipping and billing information preferably by form submission through the website. After the subscription data is provided the subscription data is stored in the database. Subscribers may thereafter purchase tags and view and manage their account on the website including their subscription data pending and cancelled tag orders and associated unique identifiers phone numbers and e mail addresses for purchased and registered tags. Generally the phone numbers and e mail addresses included in the stored subscription data are automatically linked to and displayed on the website with the subscribers purchased and registered tags although subscribers may individually modify the phone numbers and e mail addresses through the website to include the information of other desired notification recipients. Additionally subscribers may deactivate or remove their association with purchased and registered tags to render them inoperative in the lost and found system. For example in problems where the unique identifier of a tag has been compromised by hackers thereby resulting in an influx of spam notification e mails or telephone calls by false finders the user may deactivate the tag to cease the spam. Additionally a tag may be deactivated in situations where the subscriber fails to maintain their subscription to the lost and found system for example by making late subscription payments.

Moreover subscribers may view a history of previously recorded finders messages associated with the subscribers tags including audio files and written messages and selectively listen to or view the messages on the website. Subscribers may choose to view these finder message histories in attempt to recover their lost items in situations where for example the subscribers misplaced their phone or accidentally lost or destroyed their copy of the finder s message. These finder message histories are stored in the database until they are removed or deleted after a predetermined period of time or alternatively in response to the user informing the lost and found system that the lost item has been recovered.

As a result the present invention allows for a user or owner to recover his or her missing item without having to resort to manually checking every possible location where the item could have been lost or misplaced. Furthermore the user or owner does not have to physically retrace his or her footsteps by calling or visiting potential locations where the item could be found and simply has to wait for a finder to locate the item and notify the user or the user s notification recipient of the location of the missing item. Moreover the lost and found system does not require the user or owner to affix personal information such as the user s name and phone number to the item for general members of the public to view thus safeguarding the user s privacy. In addition the lost and found system allows the finder to leave a message for the owner using the IVR system without having to physically call the owner thus safeguarding the finder s privacy from caller ID. Furthermore the user does not have to encounter low battery alerts wireless connectivity problems and misreported item locations that potentially may arise from the use of wireless tracking devices or mobile applications.

Accordingly a system is provided for facilitating the recovery of a lost item. The system includes one or more tags that each include a unique identifier for identifying an item of a user a web server including a processor and a memory that is connected to a network and a database connected to the server storing data including the unique identifier of each tag. Each tag has a label which displays a phone number and a unique code that together comprise the tag s unique identifier. The server is in communication with an IVR system through an IVR API over the network.

The system further includes computer readable instructions stored in the memory that when executed on the processor cause the processor to facilitate the recovery of a lost item by performing one or more steps. Specifically the steps executed on the processor include receiving the phone number and unique code of the one or more tags from a finder of the item in communication with the IVR system through the IVR API storing the phone number and unique code as a combined unique identifier in the memory of the server comparing the unique identifier with the data stored in the database to verify if a matching unique identifier exists and generating a response including a phone number associated with the matching unique identifier and transmitting the response to the IVR system through the IVR API to obtain an audio message from the finder indicating the location of the item to call the phone number associated with the matching unique identifier and to play the audio message. The phone number associated with the matching unique identifier may be the phone number associated with the user or the user s notification recipient.

Alternatively the processor receives the phone number and unique code of the one or more tags from the finder of the item into memory through a website on the server compares the unique identifier including the phone number and unique code with the data stored in the database to verify if a matching unique identifier exists receives a written message from the finder including information indicating the location of the item on the website and transmits the written message to the user or user s notification recipient associated with the matching unique identifier. Such information included in the written message may include the name and address of the location as well as pickup instructions for the found item. Additionally the website may display a history of previously recorded audio messages and written messages from finders associated with the one or more tags for the user to hear and view respectively. These audio messages and written messages may be removed after a predetermined period of time.

Furthermore the processor additionally receives the audio message indicating the location of the item from the IVR system through the IVR API stores the audio message from the finder into the memory of the server and a file location path to the stored audio message in the database creates a written message that includes a hyperlink to the file location path of the audio message an attachment to the written message that includes the stored audio message or optionally a transcription of the audio message and sends the written message with the included audio message indicating the location of the item to the user. Where a hyperlink is used the processor sends the written message with the hyperlink to the user and the audio message is played on the website when the user activates the hyperlink.

In one embodiment the server in the lost and found system is hosted in a virtual private cloud. The virtual private cloud includes one or more virtual servers a public network and a private network. The public network is in communication with an Internet network and the one or more virtual servers and the private network is in communication with the public network. One or more network interfaces control network traffic to and from the one or more virtual servers within the public network and the private network. Preferably the one or more virtual servers include the web server and database used for the web application.

A method is also provided for facilitating the recovery of a lost item. The method includes providing one or more tags to a user each having a label which displays a phone number and a unique code that together comprise the tag s unique identifier for the user to apply to an item receiving the phone number and unique code of the one or more tags from a finder of the item in communication with the IVR system through the IVR API storing the phone number and unique code as a combined unique identifier in the memory of the server comparing the unique identifier with the data stored in the database to verify if a matching unique identifier exists and generating a response including a phone number associated with the matching unique identifier and transmitting the response to the IVR system through the IVR API to obtain an audio message from the finder indicating the location of the item to call the phone number associated with the matching unique identifier and to play the audio message. The phone number associated with the matching unique identifier may be the phone number associated with the user or the user s notification recipient.

Alternatively the method may include receiving the phone number and unique code of the one or more tags from the finder of the item into memory through a website on the server comparing the unique identifier including the phone number and unique code with the data stored in the database to verify if a matching unique identifier exists receiving a written message from the finder including information indicating the location of the item on the website and transmitting the written message to the user or user s notification recipient associated with the matching unique identifier. Furthermore the method may include additionally receiving the audio message indicating the location of the item from the IVR system through the IVR API storing the audio message from the finder into the memory of the server and a file location path to the stored audio message in the database creating a written message that includes a hyperlink to the file location path of the audio message an attachment to the written message that includes the stored audio message or optionally a transcription of the audio message and sending the written message with the included audio message indicating the location of the item to the user. Where a hyperlink is used the written message is sent with the hyperlink to the user and the audio message is played on the website when the user activates the hyperlink.

The method further includes obtaining subscription data from an entity storing the subscription data in the database and associating the tag in the database with the subscription data. The entity from which subscription data is obtained may include a user a fundraiser with whom the user is participating and a reseller of the item to be obtained by the user. Moreover the method further includes receiving the phone number for each tag from a provider of the interactive voice response system and generating the unique code for each tag at the server. Additionally the method includes generating a registration code for activating the one or more tags providing the registration code to the user and activating the one or more tags in response to receiving the registration code from the user.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments which taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

Referring to a system for facilitating the recovery of lost items is provided that includes one or more servers in communication with one or more clients over a network . Servers are connected to one or more databases . Clients include any device connected to the network including but not limited to desktop computers and mobile devices such as laptops tablets and smartphones and are operated by subscribers and finders. Network may be a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN or an interconnection of multiple computer networks e.g. the Internet . Clients may be directly or indirectly connected to network by Wi Fi by a physical tangible link by telephony using VoIP or by other conventional means of communication. For example illustrates one client top such as a laptop smartphone or tablet connected using Wi Fi to network and another client bottom such as a tablet smartphone or other cellphone connected by telephone to an IVR system discussed below which in turn communicates data through IVR API over network .

The servers each include a processor and a memory . Processor includes hardware for executing computer executable instructions such as those produced by software programs. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications byte code one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. Memory may be random access memory RAM including static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM read only memory ROM or a persistent store such as a mass storage device hard drives CD ROM DVD ROM tape erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory or any magnetic electromagnetic infrared optical or electrical system apparatus or device for storing information. A software module including computer readable instructions for execution by processor may reside in memory . In an exemplary embodiment processor performs computer executable instructions that read and process data used to facilitate the recovery of lost items and memory stores the data read and processed.

The server is in communication with an interactive voice response IVR system over the network . The IVR system is preferably managed by a third party for example DialogTech . Alternatively the IVR system may be managed within system . The server communicates with the IVR system through an IVR application programming interface API . The IVR system is configured to receive and respond to calls from a finder regarding the location of a user s lost item and to report the finder s message indicating the location of the lost item to the user. More specifically the IVR system is configured to receive a call from a finder to transmit data from the finder to the system through the IVR API to respond to the finder using data transmitted from databases of the system through the IVR API to receive a message from the finder regarding the location of the user s lost item and to call the user and report the finder s message all in real time. The server also reports the finder s message indicating the location of the lost item to the user in written form.

The server is in communication with an interactive voice response IVR system over the network through an IVR application programming interface API as discussed above. Additionally the server is in communication with a payment gateway API over the network . Payment gateway API is configured to authorize payment transactions and capture payment funds for example using a payment gateway service provider such as Authorize.Net . For example payment gateway API is used to process payment transactions when a client subscribes to system .

In the embodiment depicted in the system includes a virtual private cloud in which the server and the one or more databases are located. The virtual private cloud is preferably hosted by a PCI DSS compliant cloud hosting provider. Conventional cloud providers may include for example Amazon Web Services AWS .

The virtual private cloud preferably includes a public network and a private network although only public network may exist in some embodiments. Public network is in communication with network through an Internet gateway and is configured to receive unsecured and secured hypertext transfer protocol HTTP HTTPS web requests and secure shell SSH communications from the network . Private network is in communication with the public network and is configured to receive only SSH communications from the public network .

Public network includes one or more network interfaces for example AWS Elastic Network Interfaces that control network traffic throughout the virtual private cloud . For example public network may include a public web network interface a public proxy network interface and a public bastion network interface . These network interfaces control traffic to or from one or more virtual servers. For example public web network interface interfaces with virtual web server public proxy network interface interfaces with virtual proxy server and public bastion network interface interfaces with virtual bastion server .

In one example the virtual servers in communication with public network are separate Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud Amazon EC2 instances that use a Linux operating system and the network interfaces are attached to the instances as network interface cards. Virtual web server is configured to run the web application for system and serves HTTP HTTPS web requests for clients . Virtual proxy server is configured to control outbound web traffic from public web server that is not in response to a client s request and to allow HTTP HTTPS access to only specific domains. For instance virtual proxy server may communicate with payment gateway API during the processing of credit card transactions for client subscription processes. Virtual bastion server is configured to provide a point of entry into private network and to run an SSH daemon that allows only SSH communications to enter the private network . All servers have stateful firewalls in place.

Similarly private network includes one or more network interfaces. For instance private network may include a private web network interface a private proxy network interface and a private bastion network interface that operate in similar fashion to their respective public counterparts i.e. network interfaces and . Additionally private network may include a virtual logging server to which the network interfaces direct daemon and operating system logs. Moreover private web network interface controls traffic to a dedicated virtual database server that is preferably managed by a relational database management system such as MySQL.

Although depicts server and database outside the virtual private cloud the server and the one or more databases may be located anywhere in the virtual private cloud . For example server may be located in the virtual private cloud as virtual web server or in either network as an additional server. Additionally database may be located in private network on virtual database server or in either network as an additional database.

Referring now to the system includes a sheet that contains a plurality of tags . Tags may be of various shapes and sizes and are configured to be attached or adhered to items of a user. For example tags may be placed on any portable object of a user including but not limited to electronic devices such as laptops tablets mobile phones credit cards USB hard drives and cameras as well as suitcases wallets purses bicycles keys keychains passports drivers licenses luggage sports equipment games backpacks apparel musical instruments and other items.

Each tag has a label that displays a phone number and a unique code identifying the tag. Phone number is associated with the IVR system for finders of lost items having tags to call to report a missing item. For example phone number may be a ten digit phone number with a toll free area code that finders may call to access IVR system . Unique code is a numeric or alphanumeric code that contains a predetermined number of digits or characters for identifying the individual tag . For example unique code may be an arbitrarily or randomly selected arrangement of characters that is electronically generated by processor on the server to uniquely identify tag . Phone number and unique code are combined into a unique identifier for each tag which is stored in database . Thus if unique code contains seven characters as illustrated in unique identifier has a length of seventeen characters.

Although unique code is different for each tag to uniquely identify each tag phone number may be identical or different for each sheet or tag . For example in the preferred embodiment of the present invention the user may acquire sheet or tag from a fundraiser with whom the user is participating such as a school district or a reseller of an item that the user has purchased or obtained. In such cases the phone number may differ for each sheet or tag to enable system to track frequency of calls of different sources for marketing or other purposes.

When a user obtains a sheet of tags the tags are preferably disabled for use unless they are registered with system . Each sheet of tags thus includes a registration code which has been stored in database by processor of server and associated with the unique identifiers of tags . Registration code is an identifier for sheet that the user provides to system to activate tags for use. For example registration code may be an alphanumeric code that is randomly generated by processor on server . The user registers and activates tags on sheet all at once by submitting registration code to server for example through a website for system or by telephone through the IVR system. When processor of server receives registration code either through the website of system or alternatively from IVR system processor verifies registration code against database . If the received registration code matches registration code stored in database then processor updates database to render all tags on sheet active thus enabling the user to use the tags and enabling finders to report lost items. Alternatively the tags are pre activated in the database for use by a user in situations where the user does not have a registration code such as when the user obtains a previously tagged item from a reseller.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention a user subscribes to system and receives a sheet of tags whose unique identifiers have been stored in database by processor in server . The tags may be pre activated for use in database alternatively the user may subsequently register the sheet with system to activate the tags. If the user thereafter loses or misplaces his or her item for example in a public place a finder who discovers a user s lost item having tag calls phone number to report the missing item to the IVR system . When the IVR system prompts the finder to identify the lost item the finder submits unique code displayed on tag to the IVR system which is transferred to the server through IVR API . Processor in server subsequently receives the unique identifier including phone number and unique code from IVR system and verifies the unique identifier received against database .

If the unique identifier received matches the unique identifier stored in database processor generates a response including the user s provided phone number and transmits the response to the IVR system through IVR API . Alternatively if the user has designated another person to be the user s notification recipient to receive messages on behalf of the user the response generated by processor includes the notification recipient s provided phone number in lieu of the user s phone number. After receiving the response the IVR system prompts the finder to leave an audio message indicating the location of the lost item after which the IVR system sends the message indicating the location of the lost item to the user by automatically calling the phone number of the user or the user s notification recipient. In addition processor receives the audio message from the finder through IVR API stores the audio message in memory and its file location path in database and sends a written message to the user or user s notification recipient in real time for example by e mail or text including a hyperlink to or an attachment with the audio message.

Alternatively the lost and found system allows the finder to report the location of the user s missing item without calling IVR system for example in situations where the finder has a computer or tablet. In such a situation a finder who discovers a user s lost item having tag electronically submits the phone number and the unique code to server for example by using a website form. Processor receives the phone number and the unique code combines them into unique identifier and compares the unique identifier against the database . If the unique identifier received matches that stored in database the finder is requested to provide a written message indicating the location of the user s missing item. After the finder electronically submits the written message to server for example using a website form processor receives the written message and sends it in real time to the user or the user s notification recipient.

After the subscription process is complete the user is provided one or more sheets of tags for the user to apply or adhere to an item . Items may include any portable object such as a computer a mobile phone a tablet a credit card a suitcase a wallet a purse a bicycle a USB hard drive a camera keys a passport a driver s license sports equipment luggage a game eyewear a backpack apparel keychains musical instruments or any other item. The user is preferably provided tags directly. Alternatively fundraisers with whom the user is participating or resellers of items that the user has purchased or obtained are provided tags that are in turn given to the user for example as part of a fundraising effort to raise money or after the user has purchased a tagged item.

Each tag includes a unique identifier comprising a phone number for a finder to call and report a missing item and a unique code that is unique for each tag for identifying the item. Phone number may be identical or different for each tag in sheet and unique code is always different for each tag . Before the tags are provided to the user the unique identifier of each tag is stored in database and associated with the user s or other subscriber s data. For example the unique identifier of each tag is linked in database to the user s fundraiser s or reseller s contact information.

In one embodiment after a user subscribes to system and is directly provided tags or alternatively after a user is indirectly provided tags using a fundraiser and then subscribes to system the user may immediately begin applying tags on the user s items for a finder to locate and report steps and onward without the user being required to undertake an activation process for using the tags. However in the preferred embodiment of the present invention the user is provided inoperative tags and is required to activate them before use .

Once the user receives the inoperative tags with registration code the user activates the tags by submitting registration code to system for example using a website submission form. When system receives the user submitted registration code the system verifies the received registration code by comparing it with the associated registration code in database . If the received registration code does not match the associated registration code then the user is informed of an error the tags remain inoperative and the user must re submit the correct registration code to activate the tags . If the received registration code matches associated registration code then the sheet of tags is activated in database . As a result the tags become operative and the user is free to apply the tags to the user s items.

Referring back to after the tags are activated the user applies tag to a portable item. If the user subsequently was to lose or misplace the item for example in a public place and a finder locates the lost tagged item then the finder calls the phone number displayed on tag . In one example phone number is a toll free number generated by the IVR system. After the finder calls the phone number the IVR system prompts the finder to submit the unique code of tag . When the finder submits the unique code the IVR system is configured by processor to read back the submitted unique code to the finder and ask the finder to verify that the unique code is correct . For example the IVR system may prompt the finder to select or say 1 or Yes if the unique code was entered correctly or 2 or No if the unique code was entered incorrectly. If the finder were to respond that the unique code was entered incorrectly then the finder is prompted to re enter the code or alternatively instructed to call the phone number again and repeat the self verification process.

If the finder responds to the IVR system that the unique code was entered correctly then the processor receives the phone number and submitted unique code as a combined unique identifier from IVR system through IVR API . The processor then verifies the received unique identifier by comparing it with the data stored in database . If the received unique identifier does not match any unique identifier stored in the database for an active or operative tag then the processor transmits a negative response back to the IVR system using IVR API that the unique code was not found. As a result the finder is prompted to repeat steps and onward. On the other hand if the received unique identifier matches a unique identifier stored in database for an active or operative tag then the processor generates and transmits a positive response including the user s phone number or alternatively the phone number of the user s notification recipient back to the IVR system through IVR API to prompt the finder to leave an audio message indicating the location of the item and then automatically send the audio message to the user or notification recipient.

After the finder leaves the audio message indicating the location of the item the processor receives the finder s audio message from the IVR system through IVR API in the form of a .WAV file for example and stores the audio message in memory and its file location path in database . Processor subsequently creates a written message indicating the location of the item for example by including a hyperlink to the stored audio message or by attaching the stored audio message to the written message. Alternatively processor may convert the audio message to a written message by transcription at the server or in an embodiment where the IVR system has transcription capabilities processor may receive the written message from the IVR system using IVR API . Once the written message is created processor sends the written message to the user or user s notification recipient preferably at the same time as the audio message indicating the location of the item. In this way system notifies user or the user s notification recipient of the finder s message indicating the location of the item by phone text e mail or any other conventional method of communication in real time.

After system receives the user s subscription data the subscription data is stored in database the user is optionally given an e mail confirmation from system and the subscription process is complete. From here the user may log in to system through the website the user may order or purchase one or more sheets of tags and the user may view and manage the user s account including the user s subscription data pending and cancelled orders of tags and the unique identifiers of tags purchased that are associated with the user s account. If the user selects to purchase one or more sheets of tags the tags are associated with the user s subscription data in database and are shipped or provided to the user . As a result the user may check the system s website to verify the accuracy of unique identifiers for purchased tags and may freely apply tags to any of the user s items.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention entities other than users may subscribe to system including fundraisers and resellers. illustrates an exemplary method of a subscription process for fundraisers. Similarly illustrates an exemplary method of a subscription process for resellers. After the fundraiser or reseller subscribes to system and is consequently provided tags the fundraiser or reseller provides the tags to the user to apply to items as previously described.

Referring to the exemplary method depicted in a fundraiser first subscribes to system by providing subscription data to system . Subscription data may include the fundraiser s contact information such as the fundraiser s name address e mail address phone number the organization for which the fundraiser is raising money the fundraiser s goal amount the number of fundraiser participants the number of sheets or tags requested to be ordered as well as the fundraiser s shipping and billing information. The fundraiser may provide subscription data to system for example through a form submission on a website associated with system .

Alternatively the fundraiser s subscription may be based on an application process. In a preferred embodiment of step the fundraiser first applies for a subscription by providing initial subscription data to system including the fundraiser s name address e mail address phone number the organization for which the fundraiser is raising funds the fundraiser s goal amount and the number of sheets or tags requested to be ordered. After the fundraiser provides the initial subscription data to system for example through a website form submission an administrator of system verifies the fundraiser s initial subscription data by at least determining if the fundraiser is a school district or other fundraising entity and confirming the existence of the organization for which the fundraiser is raising funds. If the administrator approves the fundraiser s application the system directs the fundraiser to a supplemental registration form for example by an e mailed hyperlink to provide supplemental subscription data to system . Supplemental subscription data may include initial subscription data as well as the fundraiser s shipping information and billing information including automated recurring billing ARB data. The initial subscription data and the supplemental subscription data together form the fundraiser s complete subscription data.

After system receives the fundraiser s subscription data the subscription data is stored in database the fundraiser is optionally given an e mail confirmation from system and the subscription process is complete. Additionally the tags the fundraiser ordered are associated with the fundraiser s subscription data in database and shipped or provided to the fundraiser . From here the fundraiser may log in to system through the website and the fundraiser may view and manage the fundraiser s account including the fundraiser s subscription data tag orders and the tag unique identifiers of purchased tags associated with the fundraiser s account. Optionally the fundraiser may order or purchase additional tags with administrator approval.

Preferably the fundraiser may log in to system through the website to track the registration status of tags that the fundraiser has purchased and provided to various users. The registration status of the tags may be displayed as either registered or active or as unregistered or inactive. Preferably at the time when the tags are provided to the fundraiser the registration status of each tag is displayed by default as unregistered until a user has registered or activated a tag with system . Alternatively the tags may be pre associated with the fundraiser in database as registered or active tags without requiring the tags to be separately registered or activated by users.

After the fundraiser receives the one or more sheets of tags the fundraiser provides a sheet of tags to a user who is participating with the fundraiser . For instance the fundraiser may provide the tags to a user physically such as by shipping the sheet to the user. Moreover the system provides a hyperlink for the fundraiser to send to the user which the user may then activate to subscribe to system and order tags associated with the fundraiser. After activating the hyperlink the user subscribes to system using the subscription process referenced with respect to . More specifically the user provides subscription data including the user s name address e mail address phone number and billing information to system for example using a website of system . Moreover the user may also simultaneously register the tags to render them operative . For example the user may submit registration code to system to register the tags with system . In this way the system allows the fundraiser to track the registration status of the user s tags.

After system receives the user s subscription data the user s subscription data is stored in database and user subscription is complete. From here the user may perform the same functions as described above with reference to including logging in to system through the website ordering or purchasing additional sheets of tags and viewing and managing the user s account including the user s subscription data pending and cancelled orders of tags and the unique identifiers of purchased tags associated with the user s account.

In one embodiment the fundraiser may receive a payment in support of the fundraiser s efforts in response to every tag that a user has registered . In an exemplary embodiment the system may award the fundraiser a predetermined monetary amount for every tag that the fundraiser provided to users and that was registered within a fundraiser expiration period beginning from the date the fundraiser completed its subscription process culminating in a prepaid card or check that is made out to the fundraiser when the fundraiser s goal is reached. Moreover if a user were to attempt to order or register tags after the fundraiser expiration period such purchases or registrations would be omitted when calculating the reward to the fundraiser. For example given a fundraiser expiration period of one year if the fundraiser subscribes on January 1 with a fundraising goal of 100 and provides tags to twenty participants and all twenty participants register their tags with system no later than December 31 by activating the fundraiser s hyperlink referenced above then assuming the predetermined monetary amount is five dollars for each tag registered the fundraiser will be rewarded with a prepaid card or check for 100. Any user orders or registrations made after the December 31 fundraiser expiration period would not be rewarded to the fundraiser.

Referring now to the subscription process for a reseller is similar to that of a fundraiser. In exemplary method a reseller first subscribes to system by providing subscription data to system . Subscription data may include the reseller s contact information such as the reseller s name address e mail address phone number the reseller s company the reseller s product to be tagged and the sale price of the product the number of sheets or tags requested to be ordered as well as the reseller s shipping and billing information. The reseller may provide subscription data to system for example through a form submission on a website associated with system .

Alternatively the reseller s subscription may be based on an application process. In a preferred embodiment of step the reseller first applies for a subscription by providing initial subscription data to system including the reseller s name address e mail address phone number the reseller s company and the number of sheets of tags requested to be ordered. After the reseller provides the initial subscription data to system for example through a website form submission an administrator of system verifies the reseller s initial subscription data by at least determining if the reseller is a company that sells portable items that can be tagged. If the administrator approves the reseller s application the system directs the reseller to a supplemental registration form for example by an e mailed hyperlink to provide supplemental subscription data to system . Supplemental subscription data may include initial subscription data as well as the reseller s shipping information and billing information including automated recurring billing ARB data. The initial subscription data and the supplemental subscription data together form the reseller s complete subscription data.

After system receives the reseller s subscription data the subscription data is stored in database the reseller is optionally given an e mail confirmation from system and the subscription process is complete. Additionally the tags that the reseller ordered are associated with the reseller s subscription data in database and shipped or provided to the reseller . From here the reseller may log in to system through the website and the reseller may view and manage the reseller s account including the reseller s subscription data tag orders and the tag unique identifiers of purchased tags associated with the reseller s account. Optionally the reseller may order or purchase additional sheets of tags subject to administrator approval.

Preferably the reseller may log in to system through the website to track the registration status of tags applied to the reseller s products that were purchased by users. The registration status of the tags may be displayed as either registered or active or as unregistered or inactive. Preferably at the time when the tags are provided to the reseller the registration status of each tag is displayed by default as unregistered until a user has registered or activated a tag with system . Alternatively the tags may be pre associated with the reseller in database as registered or active tags without requiring the tags to be separately registered or activated by users.

After the reseller receives the one or more sheets of tags the reseller attaches or adheres the tags to the products that the reseller is selling and the user purchases or obtains one or more of the reseller s tagged products . Moreover the system provides a hyperlink for the reseller to send to the user which the user may then activate to subscribe to system and order tags associated with the reseller. After activating the hyperlink the user then subscribes to system using the subscription process referenced with respect to . More specifically the user provides subscription data including the user s name address e mail address phone number and billing information to system for example using a website of system . Moreover the user may also optionally and simultaneously register the tag . For example the user may submit unique identifier to system to register the tag with system . In this way the system allows the reseller to track the registration status of the tags on the reseller s products.

In one embodiment users and other subscribers including fundraisers and resellers must annually renew their subscription to system in order to continue using the lost and found system. Alternatively the system may require subscribers to renew their subscription bi annually monthly or at any other predetermined time. If a subscriber does not timely renew their subscription to system then the tags provided to the user are deactivated and subsequently rendered inoperative until the subscription is renewed.

Next the administrator selects an option for the system to generate and assign a unique identifier for each tag in each requested sheet for example through a button on a website submission form. Alternatively the system may automatically generate and assign the unique identifiers for each tag in each requested sheet immediately after the administrator completes step . In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the system generates the unique identifiers for each tag by combining a phone number obtained from a provider of the IVR system with a randomly generated unique code for each tag. Once the unique identifiers are successfully generated the system creates a report assigning each unique identifier to a specific tag in each sheet for example in the form of a list or spreadsheet. Additionally in the embodiment where the tags are inoperative until activated by the user or subscriber the system generates a registration code for each sheet and includes the registration codes in the report.

After the unique identifiers are generated and assigned to each tag the administrator sends the report created in step with the requested number of sheets to the manufacturer . Preferably system transmits the report to the manufacturer electronically for example when a button on the website is pressed alternatively the administrator may manually mail the report to the manufacturer. After the manufacturer receives the report the manufacturer prints the labels of the tags based on the report and the registration code for each sheet and ships the sheets of tags back to the administrator of system . Once the administrator receives the sheets of tags from the manufacturer with registration codes and labels displaying the tags assigned phone numbers and unique codes the tags are placed into inventory . Afterwards whenever an entity or subscriber such as a user fundraiser or reseller subscribes to system the administrator takes one or more sheets of tags from inventory and provides the tags to the subscriber to be applied on a user s items .

While certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein those embodiments are not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other embodiments for implementing the method and system of the present subject matter. Other variations and equivalents are possible and should be considered within the scope of the present subject matter.

