---

title: Providing indications of pairing between wireless devices
abstract: The technology described in this document can be embodied in a computer-implemented method that includes transmitting, from a first device over a wireless communication channel established between the first device and a second device, one or more signals. The one or more signals include information about an activation pattern for an output device on the second device. The method also includes transmitting, from the first device, at least one control signal to the second device to activate the output device in accordance with the activation pattern, and generating an output signal indicative of the activation pattern for presentation on the first device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635696&OS=09635696&RS=09635696
owner: Bose Corporation
number: 09635696
owner_city: Framingham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151029
---
This disclosure generally relates to wireless devices connected or paired to one another over short range communication protocols such as Bluetooth .

When a user attempts to wirelessly connect or pair a smartphone to another wireless device e.g. a Bluetooth headset various similar devices may be available in the vicinity. Whether or not the smartphone has paired to the correct device can be determined only after the completion of the pairing process for example by playing a sound from the smartphone and checking if the sound is audible on the device. If the smartphone is not paired to the correct device i.e. the sound is not audible on the device the current pairing can be terminated and the process repeated with another device. This can be continued until the smartphone is paired to the correct device.

In one aspect this document describes a computer implemented method that includes transmitting from a first device over a wireless communication channel established between the first device and a second device one or more signals. The one or more signals include information about an activation pattern for an output device on the second device. The method also includes transmitting from the first device at least one control signal to the second device to activate the output device in accordance with the activation pattern and generating an output signal indicative of the activation pattern for presentation on the first device.

In another aspect this document features a system that includes one or more transmitters associated with a first device and a subroutine execution engine that includes one or more processors and an output device. The one or more transmitters are configured to transmit over a wireless communication channel established between the first device and a second device one or more signals comprising information about an activation pattern for an output device on the second device. The one or more transmitters are also configured to transmit at least one control signal to the second device to activate the output device in accordance with the activation pattern. The subroutine execution engine is configured to generate an output signal indicative of the activation pattern. The output device is configured to present a representation of the activation pattern based on the output signal.

In another aspect this document features one or more machine readable storage devices storing instructions that are executable by one or more processing devices to perform various operations. The operations include transmitting from a first device over a wireless communication channel established between the first device and a second device one or more signals. The one or more signals include information about an activation pattern for an output device on the second device. The operations also include transmitting from the first device at least one control signal to the second device to activate the output device in accordance with the activation pattern and generating an output signal indicative of the activation pattern for presentation on the first device.

The output signal indicative of the activation pattern can be generated prior to finalization of a persistent connection between the first and second devices. The persistent connection can be in accordance with Bluetooth or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE wireless technology standards. The output signal indicative of the activation pattern can be generated responsive to receiving a user input seeking confirmation of a persistent connection between the first and second devices in accordance with Bluetooth or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE wireless technology standards. The output device on the second device can include a light emitting diode LED and the activation pattern can include a predetermined blinking sequence for the LED. The activation pattern can be based on identification information received from the second device. At least one of the control signal and the one or more signals can be generated responsive to receiving a user input seeking a confirmation of existence of the wireless communication channel between the first device and the second device. A Bluetooth transmission engine of the first device can be accessed to establish the wireless communication channel. The transmission engine can be accessed via an application which executes on the first device and accesses an Application Programming Interface API that interfaces between the application and an operating system of the first device. The output signal can cause an illumination source on the first device to be activated in accordance with the activation pattern. The illumination source on the first device can include a light emitting diode LED and the output signal can cause the LED to be activated in a predetermined blinking sequence that is based on the activation pattern. The illumination source on the first device can include a display and the output signal can cause a representation of the activation pattern on the display. The output signal can cause an audible or tactile representation of the activation pattern on the first device. The first device can be a mobile device and the second device can be at least one of an audio device and a device configured to measure one or more health parameters. At least one control signal transmitted to the second device can include timing information such that the at least one control signal activates the output device on the second device in synchrony with the presentation of the output signal on the first device.

In an environment where multiple wireless devices are available to pair with or connect to a given device the technology described in this document allows for locating a correct device prior to finalizing a persistent connection between the devices. This can reduce the occurrences of pairing with an unintended device and disrupting any existing pairing of such a device. The technology described herein also allows for confirming that a pairing continues to exist between two devices. This can be used to ensure that information from one device is not unintentionally transmitted to another device. For example before transmitting information from a wirelessly connected medical device e.g. a heart rate sensor the technology described in this document can be used to confirm that the medical device is connected to or paired with the correct device.

Two or more of the features described in this disclosure including those described in this summary section may be combined to form implementations not specifically described herein.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The development of short range wireless communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth have produced various accessories that can be wirelessly connected to one or more host devices such as a smartphone or tablet computer. Such accessories include for example various types of audio devices such as wireless enabled headsets earphones earbuds hearing aids personal amplifiers portable speakers or other devices for reproducing audio. Such accessories also include various wearable devices such as smart watches fitness trackers or health related sensors e.g. heart rate sensors wireless blood oxygenation sensors ECG sensors or other sensors used in clinical or non clinical settings . Other examples of accessory devices can include gaming controllers that connect to a host gaming console remote controllers vehicle audio systems input out devices such as keyboards mice printers or display devices and storage devices such as external hard drives.

The accessory devices may be interchangeably referred to herein as secondary devices while the host devices e.g. the devices that the accessory devices connect to may be interchangeably referred to as primary devices. Examples of host devices can include mobile devices such as cellular phones smartphones tablet devices or e readers. Examples of host devices can also include gaming consoles media streaming devices audio systems or computing devices such as laptop or desktop computers.

In some implementations the devices provided as examples of secondary devices may also act as a host or primary device. As such whether a particular device is a primary or secondary device can depend on the nature of the wireless connection. One device that acts as the primary device for one connection may act as a secondary device for another connection. For example a smartphone can act as a host device for a connection with a wireless enabled headset but as a secondary device for a connection with a gaming console e.g. for being used as a controller for the gaming console . In some implementations two devices in a wireless connection can be substantially equivalent and can be interchangeably treated as a host device or secondary device. In some implementations a device that is a secondary device for one connection can act as a host device for another connection. For example a wireless enabled headset may act as a host device in connecting with secondary devices such as a wearable smartwatch.

This document describes connections between host devices and secondary devices primarily using examples of Bluetooth connections. However other communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Near Field Communications NFC IEEE 802.1 or other local area network LAN or personal area network PAN protocols are within the scope of the technology described herein. Also setting up a connection between two devices is interchangeably referred to in this document as a pairing. However the technology may be applied to non Bluetooth devices and their connections without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. As such the term pairing as used in this document is intended to include a pairing and connecting process for Bluetooth devices a connecting process for BLE devices and other processes for establishing communication channels between wireless enabled devices in accordance with corresponding wireless standards.

In some situations a wireless environment may include multiple secondary devices that are available for pairing with one or more host devices. An example of such an environment is shown in . The example environment includes multiple host devices in general and multiple accessory or secondary devices. The secondary devices can include for example multiple headsets and in general . Such a situation can occur for example in an office setting where multiple employees may have wireless enabled headsets connectable to respective phones over Bluetooth . In such a situation a person attempting to pair a headset to a phone may be presented with a list of multiple available devices on an interface of the phone. The identification information of the various devices presented on the interface may be insufficient to distinguish between two devices. For example if several headsets of the same make model are available the corresponding description presented on the interface of a host device may be substantially similar or even identical to one another. In such cases deterministically identifying the correct device can be challenging and the only way to verify a correct pairing can be to check if the paired device is functioning for the intended purpose after the pairing process has been completed. For example proper pairing with a particular headset can be verified by playing music on the host device and verifying that the music can be heard on the headset.

In some cases verification of pairing in the above way can be problematic. For example if a user attempts to pair a headset with the smartphone but unintentionally pairs with the headset playing music on the host device will cause an audio output from the unintended headset . This may potentially cause inconvenience to or even annoy the user of the unintended headset . In some cases verifying pairing by checking that the paired device is working for the intended purpose may also be unfeasible. For example if the secondary device is a heart rate sensor or in general checking whether the paired device is working for the intended purpose can be challenging and may involve an unreliable process of performing heart rate enhancing activities and checking whether the measured heart rate actually increases. For some devices such as wirelessly connected blood glucose monitors checking whether a paired device is working for the intended purpose can even be practically impossible. Similarly in clinical settings when the secondary devices include health parameter sensors attached to patients some of who may be sleeping or even unconscious verifying pairing by checking whether the paired devices are working for the intended purpose can be unfeasible or impossible.

By using the technology described in this document an intended secondary device can be quickly identified even before finalization of a persistent connection with the secondary device. In some implementations this may reduce occurrences of unintentional pairings and allow for pairing verification in a relatively non intrusive fashion that does not include checking whether a paired device is working as intended. While the examples above mention headsets and heart rate sensors the technology can be extended for other secondary devices such as smartwatches hearing aids and other secondary devices mentioned above. Further while uses smartphones as examples of the host device other host devices e.g. the various host devices described above are within the scope of the technology described herein. Furthermore some accessories like headphones can also serve as hosts for other secondary devices.

In some implementations the technology described in this document allows for two paired or connected devices to present correlated indicators also referred to as a pairing indicator signal indicative of pairing between the devices. For example if the paired secondary device e.g. a headset and the host device e.g. a smartphone both include a light emitting diode LED the two LEDS can be made to blink in a particular pattern possibly in synchrony to indicate pairing between the two devices. In some implementations the pairing indicator signal can be presented via another output device such as a display speaker or haptic feedback device. The pairing indicator signal can be presented in the two connected devices using same or similar or different output devices. For example the pairing indication signal on a headset can be presented using an LED while the corresponding signal is presented on a host smartphone device via a pattern presented on a touchscreen display a sound sequence played through native speakers of the smartphone or a pattern of haptic feedback provided via a vibrator mechanism of the smartphone. The process of sharing the pairing indicator signals between two devices is described next using examples of Bluetooth devices.

The input device can include for example a touch enabled display configured to present a user interface. For example such a user interface can be configured to present on the host device a list of accessory or secondary devices available for pairing with the host device . User input received via the input device can be forwarded to the wireless protocol engine for carrying out a pairing process. The wireless engine can then work in conjunction with the subroutine execution engine to generate the pairing indication signal which can then be provided to the output device for presentation via the one or more output devices . In some implementations the wireless protocol engine can initiate generating of the pairing indication signal based on for example receiving a control signal from another device. For example the wireless protocol engine of a secondary device may initiate generation of a pairing indication signal based on receiving a control signal from a host device .

In some implementations a pairing indication signal can be generated prior to finalization of a persistent connection between the host device and the secondary device . As used in this document the phrase persistent connection refers to a connection that is used by a device to work for the intended purpose of the device. For example a persistent connection between a smartphone and wireless enabled headset facilitates audio streaming from the smartphone to the headset. In another example a persistent connection between a smartphone and a wireless enabled heartrate sensor facilitates streaming of heartrate data from the heartrate sensor to the smartphone. On the other hand a connection which is non persistent can be used for exchanging preliminary information but is subject to termination upon exchanging the preliminary information. Consider an example where the host device and the secondary device are both Bluetooth devices. In such a case the wireless protocol engines are Bluetooth engines configured to establish a communication channel between the two devices via a pairing and connecting process. For a pair of BLE devices the communication channel is established using a connecting process. In such cases if the Bluetooth or BLE connections are used only for exchanging initial information e.g. identification information and preliminary information e.g. pairing indication signals and terminated thereafter the connections can be referred to as non persistent connections. However if the connections are not terminated subsequent to exchanging the preliminary information such that the connections can be used for the intended purposes of the corresponding devices the connections can be referred to as persistent connections. This action can also be referred to as a finalization of the connection or a finalization of the pairing procedure.

When the devices are switched on each device may establish an initial communication channel with one or more of the other Bluetooth devices in the vicinity. also illustrates a timeline of establishment of various communication channels between two devices. The initial communication channel can be used for example to exchange identification information between the devices. In some implementations the initial communication channel can be a low bandwidth channel that facilitates exchange of identification information but does not support high bit rate data that may be exchanged between the devices upon finalization of a persistent connection. The identification information can include for example a name of the Bluetooth or BLE device. A host device upon receiving such identification information can be configured to present the information on the user interface of the input device . The user interface can be launched for example upon activation of a Bluetooth pairing process on the host device. The Bluetooth pairing and connecting process or another pairing process such as the BLE connecting process may be initiated for example directly via the operating system of the host device or using an application that interfaces with the operating system to initiate the Bluetooth pairing process. In some implementations the initial communication channels with other Bluetooth devices in the vicinity may be established upon initiation of the Bluetooth pairing and connecting process.

The process of establishment of the initial communication channels may be referred to as Bluetooth inquiry scan or page scan. During the establishment of the initial communication channels the wireless protocol engine which for a Bluetooth device may be referred to as a Bluetooth stack of the host device can be in an inquiry mode to detect other Bluetooth devices in the vicinity. The wireless protocol engine of the secondary device can be in an inquiry scan mode to detect inquiries from other devices and respond accordingly. In some implementations one or more of the host device and the secondary device may provide via an output device an indication that such initial communication channels are being established. For example LEDs on one or both of the host device and the secondary device can be configured to blink in a predetermined fashion during establishment of the initial communication channels .

In some implementations the host device can be configured to present via the user interface displayed on the input device a list of devices discovered via the initial communication channels . For example a smartphone display can be configured to present to a user a list of devices available for pairing. In some implementations the host device can be configured to initiate generation of a pairing indication signal upon a partial selection of a particular accessory wherein the partial selection does not finalize a persistent connection between the secondary device and the host device. Rather the partial selection can be such that upon removal of the partial selection any pairing or connection between the host and secondary devices is terminated. An example of such partial selection includes a hovering operation that may be implemented using the input device . In general such a partial selection or hovering includes preliminarily selecting an input without completing an action that indicates completion of the selection. Moving away from the partial selection without completing the selection can be referred to as an unhovering operation.

Such hovering and unhovering operations may be implemented in various ways. For example if the input device is a touchscreen the hovering operation may be implemented for example by pressing or touching and holding but not releasing using a finger or stylus a representation of the secondary device on the user interface presented on the touchscreen. In such cases simply moving the finger or stylus away from the preliminary selection without releasing may constitute the corresponding unhovering operation and releasing can constitute a completion of the selection. When the input device includes a three dimensional 3D sensing surface the hovering operation may be implemented for example by maintaining a threshold distance between a stylus or finger and the representation of the secondary device on the user interface presented on the 3D sensing surface. In such cases moving the finger or stylus away without touching the surface can constitute the corresponding unhovering while touching the surface can constitute completion of the selection. When the input device includes a pressure sensitive screen the hovering operation may be implemented for example by lightly touching but not pressing on the representation of the secondary device on the user interface using a stylus or finger. In such cases moving the finger or stylus away without pressing can constitute unhovering and pressing on the screen can complete the selection. Other modes of input substituting or supplementing the hovering unhovering process described above can also be used. In one example the functionalities of the hover unhover operations can be implemented via appropriate voice inputs. In some implementations motion sensors provided in a device can also be used. For example moving the device in one particular manner can be used to indicate a hover operation and moving it in another manner can be used to indicate an unhover operation. In some implementations partial final selections can also be made using dedicated controls e.g. buttons or switches provided on a device .

In some implementations pairing indication signals can be generated at the host device and a particular secondary device upon a partial selection of the particular secondary device for example via a hovering operation. For example once a user hovers over the representation of the particular secondary device as presented on the user interface of the input device the host device may establish a preliminary communication channel with the corresponding secondary device . In some implementations the preliminary communication channel can be substantially similar to the initial communication channel established for exchanging identification information. For example the preliminary communication channel can be a low bandwidth channel that facilitates exchange of information related to the pairing indication signals but does not support high bit rate data that may be exchanged between the devices upon finalization of a persistent connection.

In some implementations the preliminary communication channel can be established for example using a serial port profile SPP of a Bluetooth stack. Once the preliminary communication channel is established between the host device and the secondary device the host device can be configured to send information representing an activation pattern of an output device. The activation pattern for the output device represents the pairing indication signal for the two devices. For example for cases where the pairing indication signal is output via LEDs on the two devices the activation pattern can represent a blinking pattern or blinking sequence for the LEDs. In some implementations the activation pattern is sent in the form of a subroutine that is executable by the subroutine execution engine to generate the pairing indication signal for presentation on the corresponding output device . In some implementations the subroutine for the host device execution engine is different from the subroutine for the secondary device execution engine . This can happen for example when the output devices presenting the pairing indication signal are different in the host and secondary devices.

In some implementations the host device sends a control signal to the secondary device for example over the preliminary communication channel to use the information representing the activation pattern in generating the pairing indication signal. For example the control signal can cause the subroutine execution engine of the secondary device to use the subroutine representing the activation pattern as received from the host device to cause the corresponding output device e.g. an LED to generate the pairing indication signal. The subroutine execution engine of the host device can also invoke a corresponding subroutine to generate the pairing indication signal at the host device via the corresponding output device . The generation of the same or correlated pairing indication signal on the two devices possibly in synchrony or within a threshold time gap from one another can identify the host device and the secondary device as potential candidates for pairing. The user upon receiving such identification can complete the selection of the secondary device to initiate completion of the pairing between the two devices. The pairing can be completed for example via an establishment of a persistent connection or persistent channel that supports streaming of data for the intended purpose of the pairing. For example for a pairing between a smartphone and a Bluetooth headset the persistent channel can support streaming of audio data from the smartphone to the headset and may also include a return channel for receiving one or more control signals e.g. volume control signals from the headset to the smartphone. In some implementations upon establishment of the persistent channel the host device may transmit a control signal to the secondary device such that the control signal causes the output device of the secondary device to stop presenting the pairing indicator signal. In some implementations the information representing the activation pattern can include information on a predetermined time period for which the pairing indication signal is to be generated. Various other control signals can also be exchanged between the host devices to control the nature of the pairing indication signals. Such control signals can be used for example to change activation patterns insert pauses between two pairing indication signal sequences or specify a predetermined number of times the pairing indication signal is to be generated.

If the user upon receiving identification of the host and secondary devices realizes that the secondary device is not the intended secondary device the user can perform an unhover operation to refrain from completing the selection and establishing the persistent channel between the host device and the unintended secondary device. The unhover operation can cause for example another control signal to be sent from the host device to the secondary device wherein the control signal causes the output device of the secondary device to stop presenting the pairing indicator signal. In some implementations the above techniques provide a deterministic identification of the devices to be paired prior to finalization of a persistent connection which in turn may improve the pairing process by reducing or substantially eliminating the chances of pairing with an unintended device.

The information representing the activation pattern can be provided in various ways. In some implementations the information representing the activation pattern can be provided by the host device based on pre stored data. In some implementations the information representing the activation pattern can be generated by the host device based on identification information received from the accessory or secondary device . For example the identification information can include information on make and or model of the secondary device and the activation pattern can be generated based on such information to provide for example a signature blinking pattern associated with the particular make model. This way pairing indication signals specific to one or more of accessories makes models etc. may be used.

In some implementations a predetermined ruleset can be used to determine whether a host device or a secondary device dictates the activation pattern. For example for a pair of Bluetooth devices one of the host or the accessory device acts as the master device while the other acts as the slave device. In some such implementations the master device can be configured to dictate the activation pattern unless for example the slave device negotiates the right to dictate the activation pattern and the master device accepts. In one example when two host devices are connected to one secondary device the secondary device may act as the master device and dictate the activation pattern. In another example when multiple secondary devices are connected to one host device the host device may act as the master device and dictate the activation pattern. A network of Bluetooth devices connected to one another is referred to as a piconet. In some implementations one device which may be a host device or a secondary device that acts as the master device for a particular piconet may dictate the activation pattern for all the devices on that piconet. In some implementations one device may be connected to multiple piconets. A network of multiple piconets may be referred to as a scatternet. In such cases the activation pattern for one piconet may be used in one or more of the other piconets.

In some implementations the technology described herein may also be used in confirming reconnection of a previously paired but currently disconnected secondary device with a host device. In such cases when a user turns on the secondary device e.g. a headset the secondary device can send a paging signal to a host device. The paging signal can be transmitted for example using a channel substantially similar to the initial communication channel described above. Upon receiving a response from the host device the secondary device can establish another communication channel e.g. one of the channels and described above with the host device. This channel can be established for example using an SPP of a Bluetooth stack. The secondary device can then use one of the established communication channels to send information about an activation pattern to the host device. In some implementations the secondary device can separately send a control signal to the host device for example a communication channel or to instruct the host device to use the information representing the activation pattern in generating a pairing indication signal. For example the control signal can cause the subroutine execution engine of the host device to use the subroutine representing the activation pattern as received from the secondary device to cause the corresponding output device e.g. an LED to generate the pairing indication signal. The subroutine execution engine of the secondary device can also invoke a corresponding subroutine to generate the pairing indication signal at the secondary device via the corresponding output device . The generation of the same or correlated pairing indication signals on the two devices possibly in synchrony or within a threshold time gap from one another can indicate that the secondary device is once again connected with the host device. In some implementations the secondary device may send a separate control signal to the host device instructing the subroutine execution engine of the host device to cease generating the pairing indication signal.

In some implementations the technology described in this document can be used in confirming an existing pairing between two devices. This can be done for example by initiating a confirmation request from a paired device e.g. the host device . The confirmation request can be initiated for example using a control provided for example on a user interface of the host device. In some implementations the confirmation request can be device specific and entail a point to point transmission from one device to another. In some implementations the confirmation request can include transmissions to multiple devices such as a piconet broadcast to all paired and connected devices. In some implementations initiating the confirmation request can cause transmission of information representing an activation pattern to one or more paired devices. In some implementations initiating the confirmation request can also cause transmission of controls signals to the one or more paired devices such that the corresponding subroutine execution engines of the paired devices can use the activation pattern to generate pairing indication signals via the corresponding output devices.

The techniques described above can be implemented using various combination of hardware and software modules. For example generation of the pairing indication signals can be facilitated directly via the operating system of the host device or using an application that interfaces with the operating system to initiate the process. illustrate various examples of such combinations. shows the example of a host Bluetooth device and a Bluetooth secondary device . In this example the Bluetooth engines represent the wireless protocol engines for the devices. In this example the host device includes an input engine and a display engine that interface between the touch enabled display and the Bluetooth engine . The host device may also include a Bluetooth device manager for managing multiple Bluetooth devices associated with the host device . The input engine display engine Bluetooth engine and the Bluetooth device manager are implemented as portions of the operating system of the host device . In the example of the subroutine execution engine referred to as HOST.BLINKER that is configured to cause the LED to present the pairing indication signal is also implemented as a portion of the operating system . On the secondary device side the subroutine execution engine represented as ACC.BLINKER is also implemented as a portion of the operating system . In this particular example the operating system of the secondary device further includes a haptic feedback engine that corresponds with the I O devices to provide haptic outputs which in some cases may be used to present the pairing indication signal .

In some implementations the generation of the pairing indication signals can be facilitated using an application installed on the device. The application can be associated with a particular type of accessory or secondary devices and configured to facilitate generating pairing indication signals when the host device pairs with or attempts to pair with a secondary device of that particular type. For example the application can be provided by a manufacturer of headsets and may be used in generating pairing indication signals during the process of pairing with headsets from the particular manufacturer. The application which may also be referred to as an app may be made available for download on to the host device from a repository e.g. an online retail shop accessible to the host device.

In the example of the HOST.BLINKER subroutine execution engine is implemented as a part of an application . In the example of a device manager is implemented together with the HOST.BLINKER subroutine execution engine as a part of an application . In some implementations the device manager can be configured to implement the functionalities of the Bluetooth device manager . The applications or can be configured to control the LED to present the pairing indication signal. The application or may interface with the Bluetooth engine in some cases through the Bluetooth device manager as illustrated in to facilitate generation of the pairing indication signals. This may be done for example via an application programming interface API that allows the applications to communicate with the Bluetooth engine associated with the operating system .

The operations of the process includes transmitting from a first device one or more signals including information about an activation pattern for an output device on a second device . In some implementations the first device is a host device and the second device is a secondary or accessory device. In some implementations the first device is a master device in a Bluetooth or BLE piconet or scatternet. A host or a secondary device can be configured to act as a master device. In some implementations the information about the activation pattern can include a subroutine executable by an execution module e.g. the execution engine of the second device to activate the illumination source on the second device. For example if the output device on the second device includes a light emitting diode LED and the information about the activation pattern can include a predetermined blinking sequence for the LED. The information about the activation pattern can be generated based on for example pre stored information on the first device or identification information received from the second device.

In some implementations the one or more signals including information about the activation pattern can be transmitted e.g. using a transmitter associated with the first device over a wireless communication channel established between the first device and a second device. The wireless channel can be substantially similar to the wireless channels or described above with reference to . In some implementations a Bluetooth transmission engine of the first device may be accessed to establish the wireless communication channel. The transmission engine can be accessed for example directly via the operating system or via an application which executes on the first device to communicate with the operating system through an Application Programming Interface API .

The operations of the process also includes transmitting from the first device at least one control signal to the second device to activate the output device in accordance with the activation pattern . In some implementations the control signal and or the one or more signals including information about an activation pattern can be generated for example responsive to receiving a user input seeking a confirmation of existence of the wireless communication channel between the first device and the second device. The one control signal can be substantially similar to the control signals sent from the host device to the secondary device as described above with reference to to generate the pairing indication signal at the secondary device. The control signal can be used for for example initiating presentation of the pairing indication signal ceasing a presentation of the pairing indication signal modifying the pairing indication signal or providing one or more parameters e.g. time duration associated with the pairing indication signal.

Operations of the process further includes generating an output signal indicative of the activation pattern for presentation on the first device . In some implementations the output signal can be generated prior to finalization of a persistent connection between the first and second devices. In some implementations the output signal can be generated responsive to receiving a user input seeking confirmation of a pairing between the first and second devices. The pairing and connecting between the first and second devices can be in accordance with Bluetooth or BLE wireless technology standards. In some implementations the output signal causes an output device e.g. an illumination source such as an LED to be activated in accordance with the activation pattern. For example the output signal may cause an LED on the first device to be activated in accordance with a blinking sequence derived from or dictated by the activation pattern. In some implementations the at least one control signal can include timing information such that the output device on the second device is activated in synchrony or in an otherwise predetermined timing relation with the presentation of the output signal on the first device

The functionality described herein or portions thereof and its various modifications hereinafter the functions can be implemented at least in part via a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier such as one or more non transitory machine readable media for execution by or to control the operation of one or more data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer multiple computers and or programmable logic components.

In some implementations an API e.g. a RESTful API with JSON XML output and or an embeddable plug in can be configured to interact with the wireless protocol engine . The API or plug in can be configured to allow third party websites and applications to be powered by the wireless protocol engine .

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a network.

Actions associated with implementing all or part of the functions can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform the functions of the calibration process. All or part of the functions can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA and or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Components of a computer include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data.

Other embodiments not specifically described herein are also within the scope of the following claims. Elements of different implementations described herein may be combined to form other embodiments not specifically set forth above. Elements may be left out of the structures described herein without adversely affecting their operation. Furthermore various separate elements may be combined into one or more individual elements to perform the functions described herein.

