---

title: Performance diagnosis of wireless equipment and a wireless network over out-of-band communication
abstract: Performance issues of wireless equipment (WE) or a wireless network are diagnosed through an alternative communication channel enabled by an alternative wireless network available to the WE. A service platform (SP) probes performance condition of the WE through a mobility control node (MCN) and, in response to a fault condition, collects data related to operation of the WE. Based at least on part of the data, the SP diagnoses the fault condition and related performance issue(s). To probe performance, the SP requests the MCN to collect data related to performance metric(s) of the WE. The alternative communication channel is established, and such data is collected therefrom, in response to low-grade connectivity amongst the MCN and the WE. The SP notifies the WE of at least the fault condition through the MCN or, in case of network fault condition, via the alternative communication channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572049&OS=09572049&RS=09572049
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09572049
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150318
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 264 703 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 014 691 filed Apr. 29 2014 and titled PERFORMANCE DIAGNOSIS OF WIRELESS EQUIPMENT AND A WIRELESS NETWORK OVER OUT OF BAND COMMUNICATION which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 912 412 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 750 862 titled PERFORMANCE DIAGNOSIS OF WIRELESS EQUIPMENT AND A WIRELESS NETWORK OVER OUT OF BAND COMMUNICATION and filed Oct. 26 2010. The entirety of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to diagnosing performance issues of wireless equipment and a wireless network through communication over a channel enabled by a disparate wireless network the channel exploits spectral resources outside the band of spectral resources utilized by the wireless network.

Quality of wireless services provided by a telecommunication carrier and perceived quality of such services as experienced by a subscriber is driven primarily by performance of the wireless network deployed and administered by the telecommunication carrier. A myriad of equipment and related software and firmware applications can affect performance of a wireless network. Accordingly telecommunication carriers typically monitor operation of such equipment and assess performance through multiple key performance indicators KPIs . For user equipment UE performance generally is monitored by collecting data from UE when a connection is established amongst the UE and at least one network component of the wireless network. The data and the at least one network component typically are specific to the radio technology Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE Wi Fi WiMax satellite based telecommunication etc. employed by the wireless network to provide wireless service. In addition the data generally is collected at various operational stages of the UE such as Radio Resource Control RRC connection setup in a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP UMTS network. Accordingly in conventional wireless networks the integrity or accuracy of the data collected to evaluate network performance is dictated by the network performance itself. Moreover in conventional wireless networks the availability of such data generally is hindered in underperforming operating conditions of the wireless equipment or the network components associated with performance assessment. Compromised integrity accuracy and availability of data related to network performance can lead to unsatisfactory network performance unwarranted utilization of network resources to address subscriber concerns with received wireless service and lost opportunities to diagnose and rectify performance issues.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer node interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the computer related entity and the entity related to the operational apparatus can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such computer related entities or entities related to the operational apparatus also are referred to herein as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software application or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform layer node interface and the like.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure are presented in terms of systems or embodiments that may include a number of components modules nodes interfaces platforms or the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems or embodiments may include additional components modules etc. and or may not include all of the components modules nodes interfaces platforms etc. discussed in connection with the annexed drawings. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Further yet the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of devices includes one or more devices a set of recipients includes one or more recipients a set of addresses can include K addresses with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity. In addition as employed herein the term sub set can include the empty set. In the subject disclosure it explicitly noted when a sub set excludes the empty set.

Features or aspects described in the subject disclosure can rely at least in part on delivery or reception of directive s indication s request s or the like and information or payload data e.g. content s associated therewith. Directive s can be embodied in multi bit words e.g. P bit words with P a positive integer and coded to specifically convey a request to a particular functional element e.g. a femtocell AP in order to execute one or more specific operation. Information or payload data within signaling and request s or indication s conveyed therein can be embodied for example in one or more reserved bits in a packet header a light payload e.g. of the order of 1 byte data packet a predetermined multi bit word conveyed in a control channel a lightweight file e.g. a cookie an email communication an instant message or the like. In addition directive s request s indication s or the like as described herein can be delivered in accordance with various communication protocols. As an example the various protocols can include at least one of file transfer protocol FTP secure shell FTP SFTP FTP over secure socket layer FTPS short message service SMS protocol multimedia messaging service MMS protocol unstructured supplementary service data USSD standard simple network management protocol SNMP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP session initiation protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Open Mobile Alliance OMA device management DM protocol Technical Report 069 TR 069 protocol also referred to as Customer Premise Equipment CPE Wide Area Network WAN Management Protocol or CWMP or the like.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s apparatus es and method s and related computer readable media to diagnose performance issues of wireless equipment and a first wireless network through communication over a channel enabled by a second wireless network. With respect to channel s enabled by the first wireless network the channel is an out of band channel in that it exploits resources e.g. electromagnetic EM frequency bands outside the domain of resources e.g. EM frequency bands utilized the channel s afforded by the first wireless network. A service platform SP probes performance condition of the WE through a mobility control node MCN the service platform can be part of a service network external to the first wireless network. In response to a fault condition the SP collects data related to operation condition of the WE. Based on at least a portion of the collected data the SP generates a diagnostic of the fault condition and related performance issue for instance the SP records detection of the fault condition and categorizes the fault condition as a network based fault or a WE base fault. To probe the performance the SP requests the MCN to collect data related to performance metric s of the WE. In response to low grade connectivity amongst the MCN and the WE the channel enabled by the alternative wireless network is established and the data is collected in part through such channel. The SP notifies the WE of at least the fault condition through the MCN or in case of network based fault the channel enabled by the alternative network.

The one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide various advantages over conventional wireless networks. An example advantage is that utilization of an out of band communication channel renders network performance diagnosis resilient or substantially resilient with respect to performance issues. Another example advantage is low complexity In certain embodiments performance condition of wireless equipment can be assessed through collection of CRC error counts which in 3GPP UMTS networks is performed as part of RRC connection setup. Accordingly by leveraging network deployments alternative to 3GPP UMTS networks a network operator can exploit data related to CRC error counts to readily implement network performance diagnosis without extensive modification to network architecture.

In the subject disclosure performance diagnosis of wireless equipment or a wireless network is enabled by a communication channel implemented at least in part through an alternative wireless network. Performance diagnosis comprises detection and identification of performance issues or performance faults related to operation of either the wireless equipment or the wireless network. With respect to channel s afforded by the wireless network the communication channel is an out of band channel since it exploits spectral resources outside the band of spectral resources utilized the channel s afforded by the wireless network. Utilization of the out of band communication channel renders the performance diagnosis resilient or substantially resilient with respect to performance issues.

Referring to the drawings is a block diagram of an example system for wireless communication that enables and exploits performance diagnosis of wireless equipment WE through communication via out of band channel s in accordance with aspects described herein. Performance diagnosis comprises detection of a performance issue and isolation or identification thereof performance issues can be categorized broadly as network based faults and WE based faults. Wireless equipment refers to one or more devices wireless or tethered that include functional element s hardware software firmware etc. for wireless communication and can be configured to communicate wirelessly wireless communication includes utilization of wireless network resources electromagnetic spectrum carriers or bandwidth telecommunication channels etc. to telecommunicate voice or data. Wireless equipment WE can include user equipment UE customer premises equipment CPE or the like. Example system includes at least two networks that provide wireless service and operate in accordance with respective radio technologies e.g. terrestrial radio access deep space radio access . A first network includes network platform I and one or more link s I that functionally couple e.g. communicatively couple network platform I and component s therein to a set of mobility control node s . Link s are logically specific to radio technology of the first network for instance for Long Term Evolution LTE link s include S1 interface S2 interface X2 backhaul link whereas for UMTS link s include Iups interface. It is noted that when referring to an example system apparatus or device in the subject disclosure outlined arrows and associated connecting segments represent link s or interface s that functionally couple components APs servers nodes or the like that in the illustrated example embodiment s generally are not integrated into a single functional element. However in alternative embodiments some of such components servers nodes or the like may be integrated into a single functional element. In contrast solid black arrows and associated connecting segments represent functionally coupled functional elements components servers APs nodes or the like that in the illustrated example embodiments can be integrated at least in part into a single functional element even though such functional elements are represented as separate entities. One or more link s functionally couple at least one mobility control node in the set of mobility control node s to radio access network RAN I via platform I is thus functionally coupled to RAN I . Link s also are logically specific to radio technology of the first network for example for UMTS link s include Iub. The RAN I comprises one or more outdoor based or outdoor base stations associated electronic circuitry and respective deployment site s of the one or more outdoor base stations not shown in . In addition the RAN I includes the air interface which comprises a least one wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s radio technology UTRAN LTE GERAN UMB WiMax etc. . Moreover the RAN I comprises various coverage cells or sectors with one or more base station s serving a single cell. A base station not shown in RAN I provides in part wireless service to UE . Wireless links functionally couple UE to one or more base stations in RAN I . In example system UE embodies wireless equipment. While UE is represented pictorially with a telephone it should be appreciated that UE is not limited to such particular mobile device. UE can be any mobile device e.g. cellphone laptop computer with wireless connectivity card netbook digital video recorder DVR . . . that can communicate wirelessly. In certain embodiments UE can be a wearable device with enabled wireless capability that is attached to a subscriber s garment or gear goggles helmet etc. or is mounted on a subscriber s body part.

Based on deployment architecture one or more base stations not shown in RAN I are functionally coupled to a single mobility control node. For a base station not shown that serves UE a mobility control node MCN in the set of MCN s and one or more additional network components that are part of network platform I enable transmission of data and signaling to UE . Mobility control node s described herein thus can exchange e.g. transmit and receive traffic and control signaling to UE . A mobility control node is logically specific to the radio technology utilized for telecommunication by a network that provides wireless service e.g. a wireless network in certain scenarios the serving node also can be physically specific to such radio technology. In certain embodiments at least one mobility control node can reside with a base station not shown that is part of RAN I . For instance for 3GPP LTE radio technology or a 3GPP LTE network at least one mobility control node in the set of MCN s e.g. each MCN in such set is embodied in a Mobility Management Entity. Alternatively or additionally in embodiments related to 3GPP UMTS radio technology or a 3GPP UMTS network at least one mobility control node in the set of MCN s for example each MCN in such set is embodied in a Mobility Management Entity.

Additionally example system includes a second wireless network which comprises a network platform II functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled to an access network AN via one or more link s II . UE can communicate wirelessly via wireless link s with at least one functional element access point distributed antenna system node server etc. of AN . It should be appreciated that wireless links can be functionally different from wireless links for instance radio technology employed for transport of data and signaling via wireless link can be different from that employed for transport of data and signaling through wireless links . Thus the second wireless network can provide wireless service to UE after the UE has been registered and authorized to access wireless service via the second wireless network. In certain scenarios the second wireless network provides private or semi private wireless coverage. In an aspect the second wireless network and related network platform II link s and AN can offload communication of data and signaling from the first network platform described supra. Offloaded communication of data and signaling is effected through network resources EM frequency carriers or channels EM frequency bandwidth backhaul backbone resources etc. distinct from those utilized by the first wireless network accordingly such communication is referred to as out of band communication whereas communication through network resources of the first wireless network is referred to as in band communication. Access network includes functional elements that are logically and physically specific to the technology employed a the radio interface and at the backhaul backbone network that enable at least in part wireless communication through the second wireless network. For terrestrial radio communication access network includes a RAN comprising a set of access points femtocell APs Wi Fi APs eNode Bs etc. and related areas of coverage. In the alternative for satellite based telecommunication access network includes at least one satellite associated deep space wireless links areas of coverage are dictated by LOS considerations.

While illustrated as separate entities in embodiments in which the first wireless network administered by network platform I and the second wireless network administered by network platform II are for terrestrial telecommunication RAN I and at least a portion of AN can overlap at least partially. In such scenario one or more base stations associated with RAN I being deployed in areas in which access point s femtocell AP s Wi Fi AP s eNode B s etc. associated with AN also are deployed.

Example system also includes a service assurance platform functionally coupled to network platform I through link s and to at least one MCN in the set of mobility control node s via link s and at least one functional element within service assurance SA platform . SA platform also is functionally coupled to network platform II via link s and at least one functional element within SA platform . In an embodiment e.g. example embodiment illustrated in the set of gateway node s embodies functional element s that enables in part functional coupling of SA platform to an MCN and to network platform II . As illustrated SA platform is external to network platform I and network platform II in an aspect SA platform can be part of a service network not shown that is common to the first wireless network and the second wireless network. Such scenario can be realized when a single service provider administers the first and second wireless networks. In alternative embodiments SA assurance platform can be internal to either network platform I or network platform II . SA platform can manage network performance remotely the network performance includes performance of wireless equipment performance of network functional elements or the like. In an aspect management of network performance includes monitoring thereof and diagnosis of performance issues. In another aspect management of network performance includes generation of performance intelligence such as recordation of performance data aggregation of such data recordation of interaction with customers or the like. Additionally or alternatively as part of management of network performance SA platform also can provide customer support. In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment performance diagnosis component enables SA platform to manage network performance remotely and can implement various features thereof as described herein.

To manage network performance remotely SA platform can consume data indicative of performance condition s of UE and can generate a performance diagnosis based on such data. In an aspect SA platform can consume such data actively where SA platform can collect the data indicative of performance condition s of the UE from an MCN in the set of MCNs SA platform can collect such data on demand or dynamically. As part of on demand collection SA platform can deliver a request to collect data related to operation condition s of the UE in response to a request from a network functional element component s network node s server s etc. related to providing wireless service to the UE or to administering e.g. provisioning activating troubleshooting etc. the UE . In the alternative as part of dynamic collection SA platform can deliver a request to collect data related to operation condition s of UE in response to occurrence of a predetermined event. For instance dynamic collection can occur in accordance with a schedule the predetermined event can be expiration of timer s configured to elapse a predetermined time interval within a cycle a day a week a month etc. wherein the schedule dictates the timer s configuration. In an embodiment e.g. example embodiment illustrated in SA platform includes a connectivity component that can generate and deliver a request to collect data indicative of performance condition s of the UE . Connectivity component can request collected of such data from an MCN in the set of MCNs as indicated supra or from a disparate network component enabled to produce such data. In response to the request connectivity component can receive e.g. collect and decode the data indicative of performance condition s of UE . In example embodiment performance diagnosis component can analyze at least a portion of the data indicative of performance condition s of UE that is received at SA platform and generate a performance diagnosis based on results of the analysis.

In certain scenarios data indicative of a performance condition includes error detection statistics e.g. accumulation values such as counts of error events various momenta average standard deviation . . . of distribution of error events or the like . In an aspect error detection can be effected via Cyclic Redundancy Check CRs error counts. Data related to CRC counts for wireless equipment e.g. UE can be generated or supplied by at least one MCN in the set of mobility control node s and SA platform can acquire retrieve receive request etc. such data from the at least one MCN e.g. an RNC in a 3GPP UMTS network . SA platform can analyze the data related to CRC counts for the WE and based on a result of the analysis can detect a performance issue. As part of the analysis SA platform can compare CRC error counts for UE against a predetermined threshold. The predetermined threshold can be part of a set of performance perf. criteria retained within the SA platform the set of performance criteria can include at least one threshold. In example embodiment the set of performance criteria is embodied in memory element perf. criteria within memory . If the comparison indicates that the CRC error counts for UE exceed the predetermined threshold then SA platform can determine presence of or detect a performance fault. In response to detection of the performance fault SA platform can exchange a set of messages with the MCN e.g. an RNC in a 3GPP UMTS network that generated or supplied the data related to CRC error counts. Exchange of the set of messages enables the SA platform to categorize the performance fault as a network based fault or a WE based fault. As an illustration in example embodiment connectivity component can acquire the data related to CRC error counts for UE and performance diagnosis component can analyze such data as indicated supra. In addition in example embodiment connectivity component can exchange the set of messages with the MCN via a gateway node in the set of gateway node s .

SA platform can report performance fault s . To at least that end as illustrated in example embodiment SA platform can include a component such as notification component which can issue a message that conveys the performance fault s e.g. WE based fault or network based fault and can deliver the message. Delivery of the message can be effected via in part a gateway node of the set of gateway node s . For WE based fault SA platform can notify the WE based fault to the UE in certain embodiments the UE can render a received notification. In an aspect SA platform can deliver a message that conveys the WE based fault to the UE . The MCN that supplied the CRC counts can receive the message and relay it to the UE . In the alternative for network based fault SA platform can notify e.g. deliver a message to the network based fault and related data to the UE . To at least such end SA platform can exploit the second wireless network comprising network platform II link s and AN . In an aspect SA platform can query a network repository in the second wireless network for registration state of the UE for instance in certain embodiments the network repository can be Home Location Register HLR Visited Location Register VLR or Home Subscriber Server HSS . In example embodiment notification component can query the network repository represented by a repository comprising a group of registration record s for UE . In a scenario in which outcome of the query indicates UE is registered with the second wireless network SA platform can initiate creation of a packet based tunnel e.g. a virtual private network tunnel such as an IPSec tunnel amongst the UE and the SA platform . As an example in a scenario in which the second wireless network is a 3GPP LTE network or a femtocell network SA platform can deliver a request to create a Packet Data Protocol PDP context amongst the UE and the SA platform . For at least one wireless network in which UE is registered connectivity component in example embodiment can establish a packet based tunnel amongst UE and the SA platform .

As illustrated in example embodiment SA platform includes server s configured to enable or that enable at least in part functionality of substantially any or any component interface node s or other functional element s within the SA platform . To provide at least such functionality server s can include at least one processor not shown that can execute computer executable instructions also referred to as computer executable code instructions retained in at least one memory not shown within the server s or in a memory functionally coupled to server s such as memory . In scenarios in which the computer executable instructions are retained within memory such instructions can be stored for example in application storage not shown within memory . In particular though not exclusively to provide at least a part of the functionality of the various functional elements of SA platform the at least one processor within server s can implement e.g. execute one or more of the example methods described in the subject specification. In alternative embodiments a functional element within SA platform for example performance diagnosis component connectivity component or notification component can include one or more processors configured to enable or that enable functionality of the functional element in response to execution of a set of computer executable instructions. The set of computer executable instructions can be retained in memory or any other memory included in the functional element or functionally coupled thereto.

While not shown in in addition to at least one processor and at least one memory functionally coupled thereto server s can include various functional elements that enable server s to functionally connect to one or more networks wireless or otherwise and functional element s thereof. Such functional elements included within server s comprise input output I O interface s or switches a memory bus an address bus a system bus a power bus etc. various connectors and so forth.

In SA platform functional elements e.g. components interfaces node s can be mutually and functionally connected via bus . Such functional elements are also connected to memory via bus . Server s also can be functionally connected to components interfaces node s or substantially any or any functional elements that are part of SA platform . Bus enables data or information exchange amongst the functional elements that it functionally connects. Such exchange of data or information allows at least in part numerous functional aspects SA platform in accordance with aspects disclosed herein. In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus. Moreover bus can be embodied in reference link s or various interfaces that enable communication within a network platform.

Server s can be functionally connected through bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information such as computer executable instructions data structures etc. necessary to operate or enable functionality of SA platform . In addition to illustrated memory elements memory also can store for example data structures code instructions and program modules or substantially any type of software applications or at least part of firmware application e.g. device logic telecommunication protocol s operating system or device information and so on. Furthermore memory also can retain content s e.g. end user or application data data generated by other devices or the like security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric reference indicators like voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints or the like.

In certain embodiments one or more components of SA platform e.g. connectivity component performance diagnosis component or notification component can be implemented as software application s or firmware application s and can reside within memory or any computer readable storage medium functionally coupled to SA platform as one or more sets of computer executable instructions. In response to execution by at least one processor in server s the one or more sets of computer executable instructions implement the one or more components and related functionality thereof as described herein.

Signaling and related payload data associated with registration in an available network can be conveyed indirectly via a functional element of a RAN or an AN to at least one network component in a network platform included in the available network. UE transmits and receives such signaling and related payload data via radio interface . Traffic directed to and originated in UE can be received and transmitted by radio interface . In the illustrated embodiment in radio interface includes antenna s and communication platform . Antenna s can receive and transmit electromagnetic EM radiation with wavelengths in at least the radiofrequency or microwave portion of the EM spectrum received EM radiation is conveyed to communication platform for processing. Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provides for processing and manipulation of received signal s and signal s to be transmitted wherein such signal s are received or transmitted in suitable portions of the EM spectrum. The electronic components and circuitry can include a set of one or more chipsets that enable digital to analog analog to digital conversion multiplexing demultiplexing signal s coding decoding signal s and the like in accordance with a radio telecommunication protocol associated with a radio technology 3GPP LTE 3GPP UMTS LTE A Wi Fi satellite based telecommunication etc. . In one or more embodiments communication platform can include circuitry e.g. one or more chipsets not shown and a processor a processor that is part of processor s to switch radio technology based at least on radio technology exploited by an intended recipient of a communication of a source of a communication. In an aspect the communication platform can switch radio technology within a configurable and upgradable set of technologies in order to effect radio telecommunication. The set of radio technologies is associated in a one to one relationship or a one to many relationship with the set of wireless networks available for telecommunication.

As described supra an MCN can receive a request to collect data indicative of performance condition of wireless equipment wherein the performance condition can be represented by a value of a performance metric. The request can be delivered by a service platform e.g. SA platform . In example system mobility control node can receive signaling and related payload data that conveys a request to collect data indicative of a performance condition of UE . In an aspect connectivity component can receive signaling via network interface . In response to reception e.g. collection and decoding of such request MCN can deliver signaling and related payload data to UE wherein the signaling includes one or more of a directive to generate a first performance metric or pilot signal s to produce a second performance metric. The first performance metric and the second performance metric represent performance condition of UE . In addition the first performance metric can be determined without reliance on pilot signal s for instance the first performance metric can be processor load or queued traffic which can be evaluated without exchange delivery and reception of pilot signal s . In certain scenarios the first performance metric and the second performance metric are the same performance metric e.g. a Cyclic Redundancy Check CRC value which can be determined via the pilot signal s conveyed in signaling .

To deliver signaling and related payload data to UE MCN establishes a communication channel e.g. a control channel a procotol based tunnel channel or the like with UE . In the illustrated example embodiment connectivity component establishes the communication channel via at least in part network interface . At UE attachment component also enables in part establishment of the communication by exchanging signaling related to establishment of the communication channel with MCN . The communication channel is part and consumes resources of the wireless network that includes MCN accordingly the communication channel is referred to as an in band communication channel which allows in band communication. The communication channel is established if operating conditions of the wireless network that includes MCN affords establishing it. Upon or after the communication channel is established assessment component can monitor a connectivity condition of the communication channel. Available bandwidth communication error statistics block error rates packet error rates bit error rates etc. or the like can characterize at least in part the connectivity condition of the communication channel. Factors that characterize the connectivity condition of the communication channel can be represented by a set of KPIs and to monitor the connectivity condition assessment component can evaluate at least one KPI in the set. When at least one KPI is below a predetermined threshold the communication channel can be deemed underperforming or low grade and thus unavailable for communication.

UE receives signaling e.g. control message s pilot signal s . . . and generates at least one value of a performance metric indicated by the signaling . In an aspect performance assessment component can generate a value of the performance metric. For a performance metric that is based on pilot signal s performance assessment component can produce the pilot signal s e.g. UL sounding reference signal in 3GPP LTE and can convey the pilot signal s to radio interface for delivery. Moreover performance assessment component can acquire receive retrieve etc. a response to the pilot signal s and generate the performance metric the response to the pilot signal s can be received by radio interface which can relay the response to performance assessment component . Alternatively or additionally performance assessment component can acquire the pilot signal s conveyed by signaling and produce the performance metric associated with such pilot signal s .

In response to generation of a value of a performance metric UE delivers the value via radio interface as part of quality report s . The quality report s can be conveyed within payload data within signaling . In the illustrated example embodiment performance assessment component can supply the value of the performance metric to radio interface for delivery. Delivery of value s of a performance metric can be implemented in at least two modalities 1 In band. In a first example modality quality report s are delivered through the in band communication channel that directly couples UE and MCN . 2 Out of band. In a second example modality quality report s are delivered through a communication channel that is alternative to the in band communication channel. The communication channel is referred to as out of band communication channel because it enables communication through resources of a wireless network in which UE is registered and that is distinct from the wireless network comprising MCN . MCN initiates the out of band modality when the in band communication channel becomes unavailable. In an aspect upon or after assessment component determines the in band communication channel is unavailable assessment component signal such unavailability to connectivity component which in response delivers a directive to identify an alternative wireless network to the service platform e.g. SA platform that requested data indicative of performance condition of UE . The service platform e.g. SA platform receives e.g. collects and decodes the directive and in response identifies an alternative wireless network for delivery of quality report s the alternative wireless network is the network that supports the out of band communication channel. The alternative wireless network receives a directive to establish a communication channel with UE and in response to the directive initiates a protocol based tunnel that couples MCN with UE directly. The protocol based tunnel is the out of band communication channel that enables delivery of quality report s to MCN .

As indicated supra MCN can embody an RNC in 3GPP UMTS radio technology wherein the first wireless network is a 3GPP UMTS network. In such embodiment signaling can be exchanged transmitted and received as part of Radio Resource Control RRC connection setup connectivity component enables at least part of the RRC connection setup. In addition the performance metric that represents performance condition of UE is CRC status and the quality report s include CRC error counts and are collected by MCN embodied in an RNC during at least a portion of the time interval of RRC connection setup. Moreover signaling and quality report s are exchanged directly amongst UE and Mobility Control Node via the Dedicated Control Channel DCCH when the DCCH is available. In the alternative when the DCCH is unavailable attachment component can establish a communication channel with MCN embodied in an RNC via at least one network functional element component s server s link s etc. of a second wireless network available to UE as described supra and performance assessment component can deliver quality report s over the communication channel. Such communication channel can be out of band with respect to a set of EM frequency carriers utilized by the 3GPP UMTS network. As described supra the DCCH can be deemed unavailable when it exhibits underperforming communication condition s as disclosed by a set of KPIs and associated predetermined threshold s in certain embodiments assessment component can monitor availability of the DCCH.

UE includes processor s configured to enable or that enable at least in part functionality of substantially any or any component interface layer s or other functional element s within the UE . To provide at least such functionality processor s can execute computer executable instructions also referred to as computer executable code instructions retained in memory wherein the computer executable instructions can be retained for example in application storage not shown within memory . In particular though not exclusively to provide at least a part of the functionality of the various functional elements of UE processor s can implement e.g. execute one or more of the example methods described in the subject specification.

In UE functional elements e.g. components interfaces layer s can be mutually and functionally connected via bus . Such functional elements are also connected to memory via bus . Processor s also can be functionally connected to components interfaces layer s or substantially any or any functional elements that are part of UE . Bus enables data or information exchange amongst the functional elements that it functionally connects. Such data or exchange of information allows at least in part numerous functional aspects of UE . In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus.

In particular though not exclusively processor s is operationally coupled through bus to radio telecommunication interface also referred to herein and in annexed drawings as radio interface and can enable at least part of one or more operations on data e.g. packets symbols bits or chips that can enable telecommunication in accordance with a radio technology and associated protocol s . Processor s can afford at least part of multiplexing demultiplexing operation s modulation demodulation operation s coding decoding operation s or the like. Such operations can include for example effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Moreover processor s is functionally connected through bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information such as computer executable instructions data structures etc. necessary to operate or provide functionality at least in part to communication platform attachment component performance assessment component or other functional elements of UE . In addition to illustrated memory elements memory also can store for example data structures code instructions and program modules or substantially any type of software applications or at least part of firmware application e.g. device logic telecommunication protocol s operating system or device information code sequence hypotheses and modulation and multiplexing hypotheses spreading and pilot codes and so on. Furthermore memory also can retain content s e.g. end user or application data data generated by other devices or the like security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric reference indicators like voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints or the like.

In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst one or more components of UE . In further one or more alternative or additional embodiments one or more components of UE can be implemented as software application s or firmware application s and can reside within memory or any computer readable storage medium functionally coupled to UE as one or more sets of computer executable instructions that when executed by processor s implement the one or more components and functionality of UE as described herein.

While not shown UE can include a power supply e.g. a Li based battery which can be removable or fixed. The power supply not shown can be rechargeable and can be connected to auxiliary sources of power such as a photovoltaic panel. In addition while not shown UE also can include a display and related display component s pixel circuitry lightning circuitry computer executable instructions etc. that enable rendering a message that conveys the performance fault s wherein the message can be received from an SA platform as described supra. UE can receive such message via radio interface which relays the message to at least the display and related display component s not shown .

Mobility control node includes processor s configured to provide or that provide at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component s interface s layer s or other functional element s within mobility control node . To provide at least such functionality processor s can execute computer executable instructions also referred to as computer executable code instructions retained in memory wherein the computer executable instructions can be retained for example in application storage not shown within memory . In particular though not exclusively to provide at least a part of the functionality of the various functional elements of mobility control node processor s can implement e.g. execute one or more of the example methods described in the subject specification.

Functional elements e.g. components interfaces layer s of mobility control node can be mutually and functionally connected via bus . Such functional elements are also connected to memory via bus . Processor s also can be functionally connected to components interfaces layer s or substantially any or any functional elements that are part of mobility control node . Bus enables data or information exchange amongst the functional elements that it functionally connects. Such data or exchange of information allows at least in part numerous functional aspects of mobility control node . In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus.

In particular though not exclusively processor s is operationally coupled through bus to network interface and can enable at least part of one or more operations on data e.g. packets symbols bits or chips that can allow telecommunication in accordance with a radio technology and associated protocol s .

Moreover processor s is functionally connected through bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information such as computer executable instructions data structures etc. necessary to operate or provide functionality at least in part to network interface connectivity component assessment component or other functional elements of mobility control node . In addition to illustrated memory elements memory also can store for example data structures computer executable instructions and computer program modules or substantially any type of software applications or at least part of firmware application e.g. device logic telecommunication protocol s operating system or device information and so on. Moreover memory can include a set of performance perf. criteria that enable at least in part connectivity component to determine availability of a communication channel amongst mobility control node and UE . The set of performance criteria is related to a set of KPIs that can represent communication performance of the communication channel. Furthermore in certain embodiments memory also can retain content s e.g. end user or application data data generated by other devices or the like security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric reference indicators like voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints or the like.

In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst one or more components of mobility control node . In further one or more alternative or additional embodiments one or more components of mobility control node can be implemented as software application s or firmware application s and can reside e.g. be stored within memory or any computer readable storage medium functionally coupled to mobility control node as one or more sets of computer executable instructions that when executed by processor s implement the one or more components and related functionality of mobility control node as described herein.

In communication platform coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer component that enables manipulation in time and frequency domain of received signal s or signal s to be transmitted via the radio telecommunication interface such as radio interface not shown in . Electronic mux demux component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition based on telecommunication protocol employed for radio telecommunication mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like. Mod demod component also can demodulate information processed in accordance with the foregoing modulation techniques.

Coder decoder component can process signal s that are received or that are to be transmitted in accordance with a radio telecommunication protocol. In an aspect decoding can be based at least in part on blind decoding of received signal s computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximum likelihood ML estimation minimum mean square equalization MMSE zero forcing ZF filtering or maximal ratio combining MRC filtering. Multi mode chipset s enable communication platform and component s or functional elements therein to operate in one or more radio technologies.

Functional elements e.g. component s coder decoder receiver s transmitter s are functionally connected via bus . Bus enables exchange of data signaling or any other information amongst the functional elements connected through such bus. In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus.

In the subject disclosure in addition to receiving and processing CS based traffic and signaling data PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with device s served through RAN via link s and link s both of which can include wireline links e.g. reference links or wireless link s e.g. line of sight LOS links deep space links . . . . Device s is a set of devices that includes wireless device s wireline device s or a combination thereof. For example device s can include a mobile device of a subscriber that exploits customized communication routing as described herein and a set of wireline devices that operate within service coverage area served by a base station that can operate in accordance with one or more radio technologies.

Radio access network RAN can include one or more components that enable transmission of data and signaling including related payload data amongst device s and network platform . RAN can include a radio access network RAN and associated component s . For wireline devices one or more components that are part of a wireline network e.g. included in service network s enable the transmission of data and signaling. Link s represented with open arrows operationally connected to network interface s can deliver data and signaling to the wireline device via the one or more components of the wireline network for example represented by access network and related link s represented with open arrows connecting the access network to device s . Data sessions e.g. voice calls data calls . . . can include traffic exchange with networks external to network platform such as wide area network s WAN s or service network s local area network s LAN s e.g. enhanced also can be interfaced with network platform through PS gateway node s . In an aspect WAN s can include a wireless WAN which can embody a network platform disparate from network platform wherein the network platform disparate from network platform can have substantially the same functional elements as network platform . Network interface s enable the traffic exchange such interface s can include conventional wireline or wireless links or reference links specific to each of the external network s that interface with PS gateway node s or other portions of the PS domain in network platform . In an aspect PS gateway node s can generate packet data protocol PDP contexts when a data session is established. To at least that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s which can be part of access network s and can include Wi Fi networks femtocell network s macrocell network s and associated radio access network s RAN s based on various radio technology generations etc. It should be further appreciated that packetized communication can include multiple flows of data that can be generated through server s such as management server s e.g. a provisioning server a Mobile Switching Center MSC or application server s . It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s PS gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG .

In network environment network platform also includes serving node s that conveys the various packetized flows of data streams that can be directed to device s and that are received through PS gateway node s from server s . In turn server s can receive the communication s such as request for data intended to service network s which can include an IMS core or other packet based cores from user equipment within device s or network elements. In certain embodiments service network s can include service assurance platform . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN . As another example in a 3GPP LTE network service node s can be embodied in one or more Mobility Management Entities MMEs .

Server s can operate in various layers of network platform . For example server s can operate as part of Operations Support Systems OSS Business Support Systems BSS or network subsystems such as IMS core network. Server s can execute numerous applications which can include consumer oriented application s such as messaging services location services online gaming wireless banking or system oriented applications e.g. wireless device management scheduling or queuing of network traffic or the like. Such application s either consumer oriented or system oriented can generate sets of packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. In an aspect a server within server s can be a Domain Name Server DNS that executes one or more service oriented applications that can supply a logical address e.g. an IP address of a serving node within serving node s . The logical address of the serving node can be supplied in response to a request e.g. a query from a disparate serving node within serving node s or serving node s that are part of a disparate network platform. Application s executed by server s can include for example add on features to standard services provided by network platform . Data streams generated by server s can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authentication authorization and initiation of a data session or for execution at least in part of a telecommunication procedure Tracking Area Update procedure Location Area Update procedure Routing Area Update procedure Attach procedure etc. for communication to device s thereafter.

Server s also can effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls of network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authentication and authorization procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. In addition server s can implement timing protocols e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP that supply timing framework s for various operation s of network platform . Moreover server s can provision services from external network s e.g. WAN s LAN s IMS core network which can be part of service network s or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . Server s can include one or more processors not shown configured to provide or that provide in part the functionality of network platform . To that end the one or more processors not shown can execute one or more sets of computer executable instructions not shown stored in repository for example.

In example network environment repository can store information related to operation of network platform . Information can include content s such as subscriber generated content or from various other sources subscriber account s and associated credential s pricing schemes e.g. promotional rates flat rate programs couponing campaigns and so forth. In addition repository can store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN s LAN s signaling network s or service network s . While illustrated as a single entity repository can be distributed amongst one or more of the described external networks server s or other functional elements of network platform . Memory can be embodied at least in part in a VLR a HSS or storage available within a consolidated data repository that centralizes data administrative data operational data etc. for at least network platform .

In view of the example system s apparatus es and device s described supra example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation the example method s disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s may represent one or more methods described herein when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of the one or more methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the method s described herein can be employed to execute computer executable instructions stored in a memory or any computer readable or machine readable storage medium to implement method s described herein the computer executable instructions provide a computer executable or machine executable framework for a computing device to perform the method s described herein.

At act fault condition of wireless equipment is probed wherein the wireless equipment is served by a first wireless network. The probing can include delivering a request to collect data related to operation condition s of the wireless equipment the operation condition can be characterized by various KPIs including a channel quality indicator CQI signal to noise ratio SNR signal to noise and interference ratio SNIR processing load queued traffic or the like. The probing can be implemented on demand or dynamically. As described supra on demand implementation can include delivering the request to collect data related to operation condition s of the WE in response to a request from a network functional element component s network node s server s etc. related to providing wireless service to the WE or to administering e.g. provisioning activating troubleshooting etc. the WE. In the alternative also as described hereinbefore dynamic implementation include delivering the request to collect data related to operation condition s of the WE based on event s wherein the probing is performed in response to occurrence of a predetermined event.

At act it is determined if the fault condition obtained through the probing at act is indicative of a performance fault. In the negative case flow is directed to act at which further probing is implemented. In the affirmative case flow is directed to act at which a set of messages are exchanged with a mobility control node e.g. an RNC in 3GPP UMTS radio technology or an MME in 3GPP LTE wherein the mobility control node manages connectivity of the WE to the first wireless network. The set of messages is exchanged to collect data that enable at least in part diagnosing the performance fault. At act based on the data related to at least one message in the set of messages the performance fault is identified as either a network fault or network based fault of the first wireless network or a wireless equipment fault or a WE based fault . In an example scenario acts and collectively can embody the act of determining the performance fault to be a network based fault or a WE based fault in response to the fault condition being indicative of the performance fault.

In case of a network fault at act the WE is notified of the network fault through a second wireless network e.g. a femtocell network a satellite based network or a Wi Fi network . Notifying the WE can include delivering a short message service SMS message a MME message an email message a USSD message or the like. Alternatively in case of WE fault at act the wireless equipment WE is notified of the WE fault through the mobility control node. In an aspect notifying the WE includes queuing a message SMS message MME message email message etc. until the WE has recovered from fault condition and then delivering the message through the MCN.

In connection with example method a mobility control node e.g. an MCN in the set of MCNs or functional element s therein can implement e.g. execute the subject example method. The MCN that implements the subject example method can be the MCN indicated in example method . One or more processors also can perform the subject example method. In an aspect the one or more processors can be configured to enable or can enable at least in part the functionality of the mobility control node e.g. an RNC in 3GPP UMTS or MME in 3GPP LTE or Evolved Packet Core EPC network or the functional element s therein. In another aspect the one or more processors can execute one or more functional elements component s server s etc. within the network node to perform at least one act of the subject example method when such one or more functional elements are embodied in a set of computer executable instructions that are part of a software application or a firmware application. The software application or the firmware application can be retained within the MCN or other network functional elements.

At act a request for collecting data indicative of fault condition of wireless equipment is received wherein a first wireless network serves the WE. In an aspect the request can be received from a service platform e.g. SA platform or network node. At act at least a portion of the data indicative of the fault condition of WE is collected. In an aspect as illustrated collecting at least the portion of such data includes various acts.

At act it is determined if the first wireless network is available for telecommunication. In an aspect determining availability of the first wireless network includes monitoring connectivity condition of a communication channel the couples the WE and a network node that manages mobility of the WE within the first wireless network. The monitoring includes evaluating at least one KPI representative of the connectivity condition and comparing a value of the at least one KPI with a set of thresholds retained within a group of performance criteria see e.g. . In certain scenarios the set of thresholds can include at least one threshold to determine fault condition and a second threshold to determine at risk of fault condition. In the affirmative case e.g. when evaluated KPI indicates normal connectivity condition at act a first set of messages e.g. downlink pilot messages and related response s is exchanged with the WE via the first network. In certain embodiments the first network is a 3GPP UMTS network. At act based on data related to at least one message e.g. a response to a specific DL pilot message in the set of messages the fault condition is evaluated.

A negative outcome of act e.g. when a KPI indicates fault connectivity condition or at risk connectivity condition directs flow to act at which it is determined is a second network is available for telecommunication. In certain embodiments the second network is one of a 3GPP LTE network a femtocell network a Wi Fi network a satellite based network and so forth. In an aspect determining availability of the second wireless network comprises extracting registration state of the WE with at least one wireless network in a set of wireless networks alternative to the first wireless network the registration state can be extracted from a network platform that is part of the at least one wireless network. A negative outcome to act leads to act at which an exception procedure is implemented. The exception procedure can be directed at least in part to supplying information related to unavailability of access via telecommunication with the wireless equipment. In an aspect as part of implementing the exception procedure a message that conveys telecommunication unavailability can be delivered to the source e.g. network node such as SA platform of the request for collecting data indicative of the fault condition of wireless equipment. In the alternative an affirmative outcome of act leads to act at which a second set of messages is exchanged with the wireless equipment via the second network. At act based on data related to at least one message in the second set of messages the fault condition is evaluated.

At act at least the portion of data indicative of the fault condition of the WE is delivered via the first wireless network or the second wireless network.

Various advantages emerge from features or aspects of the one or more embodiments disclosed herein. An example advantage is that utilization of an out of band communication channel renders network performance diagnosis resilient or substantially resilient with respect to performance issues. Another example advantage is low complexity In certain embodiments performance condition of wireless equipment can be assessed through collection of CRC error counts which in 3GPP UMTS networks is performed as part of RRC connection setup. Accordingly by leveraging network deployments alternative to 3GPP UMTS networks a network operator can exploit data related to CRC error counts to readily implement network performance diagnosis without extensive modification to network architecture.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Additionally various features of the subject disclosure can be implemented in a computing device a UE a serving node a server etc. . Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

