---

title: Systems and methods for managing reconfigurable integrated circuit applications on a radiofrequency transceiver device
abstract: A radiofrequency transceiver device includes at least one reconfigurable integrated circuit (RIC) and a system controller that is able to reconfigure the at least one RIC to perform specific processing tasks. The specific processing tasks may be related to processing at least one radiofrequency signal that is received by, stored on, retrieved from and/or transmitted by the radiofrequency transceiver device. Embodiments may also include one or more reconfigurable integrated circuit applications (RIC Apps) that may be executed, at least in part, on the at least one RIC.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356642&OS=09356642&RS=09356642
owner: QRC, INC. DBA QRC TECHNOLOGIES
number: 09356642
owner_city: Fredericksburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150727
---
Various radiofrequency RF transceiver devices are known which are capable of receiving and or transmitting RF signals. One example is a radiofrequency digitization and collection system RFDCS that may be used to collect store retrieve and or transmit radiofrequency signals.

An example of an RFDCS is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 763 004 which is incorporated by reference herein. An RFDCS may typically include a collection system for receiving raw analog RF signals and converting these signals into digital RF signals a data storage retrieval system e.g. hard drive that stores retrieves collected RF signals in the form of RF digital information RDI files and a transmission system for converting a processed and or retrieved RF digital signal into an analog RF signal and transmitting the converted RF analog signal e.g. via an antenna or wired RF connection .

The users of these systems may often desire to manipulate the raw RF signals captured by the system or to perform other transformations to convert the signals to a more useful form. However these operations may be computationally intensive and can overwhelm system resources.

The various embodiments include radiofrequency transceiver devices that include at least one reconfigurable integrated circuit RIC and a system controller that is able to reconfigure at least one RIC to perform specific processing tasks. The specific processing tasks may be related to processing at least one radiofrequency signal that is received by stored on retrieved from and or transmitted by the radiofrequency transceiver device. Embodiments may also include one or more reconfigurable integrated circuit applications RIC Apps that may be executed at least in part on the at least one RIC.

In one embodiment a method of managing a reconfigurable integrated circuit application RIC app in an RIC app storage and retrieval space RIC App Space including one or more RIC apps on a radiofrequency transceiver device having one or more reconfigurable integrated circuits RICs and a system controller includes launching an RIC app from the RIC App Space on the radiofrequency transceiver device based on a request creating an execution environment by the system controller for the RIC app where creating the execution environment includes reconfiguring the at least one RIC by the system controller to execute the RIC app and executing the RIC app in the created execution environment where executing the RIC app includes processing at least one radiofrequency signal using the at least one RIC.

Various embodiments include radiofrequency transceiver devices configured to perform operations of the embodiment methods disclosed herein. Various embodiments also include radiofrequency transceiver devices including means for performing functions of the embodiment methods disclosed herein. Various embodiments also include non transitory processor readable storage media having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform operations of the embodiment methods disclosed herein.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or similar parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

As used herein a radiofrequency transceiver device includes devices that include a receiver for receiving RF signals and or a transmitter for transmitting RF signals. For example a radiofrequency transceiver device may be a radiofrequency digitization and collection system RFDCS that is capable of receiving storing retrieving and transmitting RF signals. It will be understood that in other embodiments a radiofrequency transceiver device may include devices that only receive RF signals as well as devices that only transmit RF signals.

As used herein a reconfigurable integrated circuit or RIC are used interchangeably and refer to an integrated circuit or processor that can be reconfigured after manufacturing to make changes to the datapath or bitstream of the circuit. Examples of reconfigurable integrated circuits include field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and complex programmable logic devices CPLD .

As used herein the terms transform s or transformation s are used interchangeably and refer to the modification manipulation or various other types of processing performed on a RF signal that changes the RF signal into a new form. For example noise reduction desired signal amplification normalization and various filters may be used to perform a transform on a signal to change the signal into a new form. In the various embodiments transforms may be performed using various hardware and software components.

As used herein the terms app s or application s are used interchangeably and refer to programs code processes or operations stored on a radiofrequency transceiver device that among other things processes RF signals e.g. implement transforms on RF signals during any of the reception of the RF signals storage of the RF signals retrieval of the RF signals and transmission of the RF signals. Also as used herein the term App Space refers to a collection of apps stored on the radiofrequency transceiver device that may be used to process RF signals such as by performing transforms of RF signals.

In overview various embodiments relate to a radiofrequency transceiver device that includes at least one reconfigurable integrated circuit RIC and a system controller that is able to reconfigure the at least one RIC to perform specific processing tasks. The specific processing tasks may be related to processing of a radiofrequency signal such as a digitized radiofrequency signal. The processing of the radiofrequency signal may include performing particular transforms on radiofrequency signals that may be received by stored on retrieved from and or transmitted by the radiofrequency transceiver device. The reconfigurable integrated circuit RIC may be a field programmable gate array FPGA a complex programmable logic device CPLD or a similar reconfigurable integrated circuit.

Various embodiments may include one or more RIC applications RIC Apps that may be executed at least in part on at least one RIC. The RIC apps may be managed by a system controller which may be implemented in a system area of a CPU of the radiofrequency transceiver device. The system controller may be configured to launch an RIC app from an RIC app storage and retrieval space RIC App Space in response to a user request and create an execution environment for the RIC App where creating an execution environment includes reconfiguring at least one RIC to execute the RIC app. The at least one RIC may be reconfigured using configuration data associated with the RIC app. Reconfiguring the RIC may include interchanging one or more stored semiconductor IP cores for example. The RIC App may be executed in the created execution environment which may include processing RF signals using the reconfigured RIC.

The system controller may control access to privileges and resources of the transceiver device including the reconfiguration and use of at least one RIC by the RIC apps. In various embodiments the system controller may be configured to register each of the RIC apps when they are first installed on the transceiver device. In one embodiment the system controller may register each RIC app by determining whether a particular RIC app can run on the radiofrequency transceiver device add the RIC app to the RIC App Space when it is determined that the RIC app can run on the radiofrequency transceiver device and not add the RIC app to the RIC App space when it is determined that the RIC app cannot run on the radiofrequency transceiver device. The system controller may not register a particular RIC app in response to determining that for example RIC configuration data included in the RIC app is not compatible with the radiofrequency transceiver device the RIC app is not signed the RIC app is not licensed and or a checksum algorithm run on the RIC app indicates at least one error.

In embodiments the system controller may be configured to manage multiple RIC Apps on the radiofrequency transceiver device. For example a first RIC app may execute in a first execution environment and the system controller may be configured to launch at least one additional RIC app from the RIC App Space on the radiofrequency transceiver device based on a request. The system controller may be configured to create at least one additional execution environment for the at least one additional RIC app where the at least one additional execution environment may be created by reconfiguring the at least one RIC to execute the at least one additional RIC app using configuration data associated with the at least one additional RIC app. The system controller may be configured to execute the at least one additional RIC app in the at least one additional execution environment on the at least one RIC.

In some embodiments the system controller may be configured to determine for each RIC app that is launched whether sufficient resources exist to execute the RIC app on the at least one RIC where the system controller creates an execution environment only in response to a determination that sufficient resources exist to execute the RIC app on the at least one RIC. For example the system controller may determine whether sufficient space exists on the at least one RIC to reconfigure the RIC based on the RIC configuration data associated with the particular RIC app.

In embodiments a request to launch an RIC app may be based on a user input or may be made by another application app that is running on the radiofrequency transceiver device. For example a first app may send a request to the system controller to launch a particular RIC app from the RIC app space e.g. to perform a particular processing task on a radiofrequency signal . The first app may identify the at least one radiofrequency signal to be processed by the RIC app using the at least one RIC. The RIC app may send the radiofrequency signal processed by the RIC app to the first app and or may provide data derived from the processing of the of the radiofrequency signal to the first app.

Thus various embodiments may enable users of a radiofrequency transceiver device to utilize real time digital signal processing by running various specialized applications on integrated circuits configured to perform particular processing tasks without compromising the core system functions of the transceiver device thereby promoting dynamic on the fly processing of RF signals without compromising the user s overall experience.

The various embodiments may be implemented in a radiofrequency transceiver device such as a radiofrequency digitization and collection system RFDCS an example of which is illustrated in . For example the transceiver device e.g. RFDCS may include a processor e.g. a CPU coupled to internal memory . Internal memory may be volatile or non volatile memory and may also be secure and or encrypted memory or unsecure and or unencrypted memory or any combination thereof. The processor may also be coupled to a touch screen display panel such as a resistive sensing touch screen capacitive sensing touch screen infrared sensing touch screen or the like. Additionally the display of the device need not have touch screen capability. Additionally the device may have one or more antenna for sending and receiving electromagnetic radiation e.g. RF signals that may be connected to a wireless data link and or cellular telephone transceiver coupled to the processor . In another embodiment the device may also receive and send RF signals over a wired RF connection such as via a coaxial cable or other RF input output feature. The device may also include physical buttons and for receiving user inputs. The device may also include a power button for turning the transceiver device on and off. Additionally the transceiver device may include a microphone for receiving sound. The transceiver device may also include a speaker for converting audio signals into audible sound.

As shown in a transceiver device may also include one or more reconfigurable integrated circuit RIC modules including one or more reconfigurable integrated circuits RICs . The reconfigurable integrated circuit RIC may be a field programmable gate array FPGA a complex programmable logic device CPLD or a similar reconfigurable integrated circuit which may be coupled to a processor e.g. CPU of the radiofrequency transceiver device . Although a single RIC is shown in it will be understood that a transceiver device may include a plurality of RICs and or RIC modules. In embodiments the RIC module may be an expansion card e.g. a PCI Express card that may plug into a slot on the motherboard of the radiofrequency transceiver device as schematically illustrated in . Other configurations may also be utilized.

In an embodiment the collection component of the radiofrequency transceiver device e.g. RFDCS may receive RF signals. The collection component may include various sub components such as a filters amplifiers unit a downconverter an analog to digital converter i.e. A D converter and a processing unit . One or more antennas may wirelessly receive an analog RF signal such as a radio wave. In another embodiment not shown the collection system may receive RF signals directly through a wired RF connection such as a coaxial cable. The filters amplifiers unit e.g. a high pass filter unit may filter and or amplify the captured analog RF signal . The filtered RF signal may be passed to a downconverter and then to the A D converter . The A D converter may use various techniques to convert the analog signal into a digital signal. After finishing converting the analog RF signal to a digital RF signal the A D converter may pass the converted digital signal to a processing unit for additional processing. The processed digital signal may be sent for storage and later retrieval in the data storage retrieval system .

As described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 763 004 the radiofrequency transceiver device may include one or more applications apps that may be used to control and or modify the operation of the collection component . In other words the app may modify the behavior of any combination of the various sub components and of the collection system and may cause any of the sub components and to apply various transforms to the analog RF signal as it is converted from analog to digital. For example the app may cause the A D converter to apply various offsets and skewing algorithms that among other things may adjust the sampling rate of converted digital signals. In another example the app may decimate the analog RF signal for easier processing and storage retrieval using the processing unit . In yet another example the app may configure the downconverter and or the filters amplifiers unit to control frequencies of a received analog RF signal . Various apps may be stored in a memory area App Space that is separate from the system area of the device .

The apps from the App Space may be distinguishable from the RIC app s in that the apps may execute on a conventional i.e. non reconfigurable microprocessor of the radiofrequency transceiver device . In contrast the RIC app s execute at least on part on an RIC and may include configuration data for reconfiguring an RIC as described further below.

In embodiments data may be exchanged between the collection component and the RIC as illustrated by arrows in . In some embodiments radiofrequency signals that may be converted to digital signals by the A D converter and optionally processed by the processing unit may be sent to the RIC to be processed using at least one RIC app . The RIC may be reconfigured to perform one or more specific processing tasks on the received radiofrequency signals such as performing a transform on the radiofrequency signals. For example the RIC may be reconfigured to perform one or more processing tasks on the radiofrequency signals such as filtering amplification noise reduction normalization etc. The particular processing task s performed by the RIC may include computationally intensive signal processing that may not otherwise be practical to perform in real time e.g. using a conventional microprocessor without overwhelming system resources. In some embodiments the radiofrequency signals processed using the RIC may be sent to the data storage retrieval component for storage and later retrieval and or to the transmission component for transmitting the processed RF signals. In some embodiments the processed radiofrequency signals may be sent from the RIC back to the collection component of the transceiver device for example for further processing of the signals by the processing unit .

The data storage retrieval component of the transceiver device may include a persistent memory e.g. a hard drive or other non volatile memory component such as a Secure Digital SD memory card as shown in . In embodiments the persistent memory may maintain processed digital signals in the form of RF digital information RDI files . RDI files may contain digital representations of received RF signal information. In an embodiment the contents of a RF Digital Information RDI file may be in many formats but may generally include an in phase amplitude measurement of the signal I and generally but not necessarily also a 90 degree phase shifted quadrature amplitude measurement of the signal Q . Additional meta data that specifies pertinent information about the IQ data may also be present in RDI files .

In some embodiments one or more apps included in the App Space may optionally perform transformations on the digital signal stored in the RDI files . For example an app may increase the signal s gain or may apply other filters effects and other transforms. In another embodiment the app may combine multiple RDI Files into a resulting RDI File for use by adding the signals together with or without additional signal manipulation. In another embodiment the app may apply other transforms typical of offline signal processing i.e. computationally intensive signal processing that may not be practical to implement in real time . In some embodiments the digitized radiofrequency signal s stored on the data storage retrieval component e.g. in persistent memory may be retrieved and sent to the RIC to perform particular processing tasks using one or more RIC apps . The RIC may send the processed digitized RF signal back to the data storage retrieval component for further processing and or storage. In some cases the RIC may send the processed digitized RF signal to the transmission component for transmitting the signal.

The transmission component of the radiofrequency transceiver device may include a processing unit a digital to analog converter DAC an upconverter a filters amplifiers unit and one or more antennas for transmitting an analog signal . In preparation for transmission i.e. playback a processing unit may process the digital signal received from the persistent memory using various known techniques. In one embodiment the processing unit and the processing unit may be the same processing unit e.g. a central processing unit CPU or a digital signal processor DSP . In another embodiment the processing units may be separate components e.g. the processing unit may be a DSP and the processing unit may be a CPU . In yet another embodiment the processing units may be one or more cores in one or more multi core processing units such as a quad or dual core DSP. In some embodiments the functions of one or both of the processing units may be performed in whole or in part by the at least one RIC .

The processing unit and or the RIC may send the processed digital signal to the DAC of the transmission component . The DAC may convert the digital signal into an analog signal. After converting the digital signal the DAC may send the converted digital signal to an upconverter which may apply various other transforms to the converted analog signal before sending the converted analog signal to a filters amplifiers unit . The filters amplifiers unit may apply additional transforms to the converted analog signal and may send the converted analog signal to the antenna s for transmission as an analog signal . In another embodiment not shown the transmission component may transmit the converted analog signal through a wired RF connection such as a coaxial cable.

As described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 763 004 one or more apps may modify the behavior of any of the processing unit DAC upconverter and filters amplifiers unit of the transmission component to change various characteristics of the radiofrequency signal processed by any combination of the processing unit DAC upconverter and filters amplifiers unit in the transmission component . At least a portion of the processing of the radiofrequency signal for transmission by the transmission component may be performed by an RIC app running on the RIC .

Thus in the various embodiments one or more RIC apps which execute at least in part on an RIC may perform various processing tasks during the various stages of signal processing. The RIC app s may operate in conjunction with other apps such as apps operating on the radiofrequency transceiver device . For example an app may request or instruct an RIC app to perform a particular processing task on at least one identified radiofrequency signal using the RIC . The RIC app may process the identified radiofrequency signal s using the RIC and may send the processed signal s to the requesting app or to a different app for additional processing. For example an RIC app may perform a transform on a particular radiofrequency signal e.g. digitized stream with or without preserving the original radiofrequency signal data. In some embodiments the RIC app may derive data from the processing of one or more radiofrequency signals and may provide the derived data to the requesting app or to a different app.

In embodiments the various apps e.g. apps and or and one or more RIC apps executing on the radiofrequency transceiver device may communicate with one another at the level of interrupts events triggers scalars e.g. probability measurements estimates etc. digital streams e.g. demodulated data messages etc.

In an embodiment the system area may also include a system controller that may coordinate and manage the operations of a collection component a data storage retrieval component a transmission component and a reconfigurable integrated circuit RIC module . The system controller may send various signals to the collection system including command and control signals. The collection component may function similarly to the collection component described above with reference to and may provide frequency downconversion and converting of an analog signal to a digital signal.

In a further embodiment the system controller may include one or more processing cores not shown . The system controller may utilize the one or more processing cores to implement apps within the App Space or to control and or transform various aspects of the transceiver device such as RF signal collection storage retrieval and transmission i.e. playback . The system controller may allocate specific resources such as specific processing units cores and or other resources to one or more apps in the App Space. For example at least one core may be dedicated to an app performing transforms on i.e. processing RF signals being collected with the collection component while the core system functions may utilize the other cores to ensure consist and reliable performance of various other components of the transceiver device . Thus in an embodiment the system controller may leverage the one or more cores to perform real time processing.

In another embodiment the collection component may send raw IQ data to the system controller which may send a signal that includes the raw IQ data to the data storage retrieval component . The signal may also be sent using the VITA Radio Transport VRT standard.

In yet another embodiment the data storage retrieval component may be similar to the data storage retrieval component described above with reference to . The data storage retrieval component may store the signal as an RDI file in various storage devices such as a hard drive or solid state drive. Additionally the data storage retrieval component may include larger data storage space via eSATA USB or other high data rate bus storage. The data storage retrieval component may also retrieve and send the stored signal back to the system controller in a signal .

In another embodiment the system controller may send a signal to a transmission component which may be analogous to the transmission component described above with reference to . The signal may also include raw IQ data and command and control signals. The transmission component may include a raw IQ transmitter for transmitting signals.

The system controller in this embodiment may also control the operation of an RIC module . The RIC module may be a circuit board or card that includes at least one RIC e.g. a FPGA or CPLD which may be analogous to the RIC module described above with reference to . One or more RIC apps may execute on the at least one RIC of the RIC module as described above with reference to . The system controller may control the implementation of the one or more RIC apps on the RIC module including the reconfiguring of one or more RICs for executing an RIC app and may allocate specific resources such as RICs or portions thereof to one or more of the RIC apps.

The system controller may exchange various signals with the RIC module including command and control signals. The system controller may also control the transfer of IQ data to and from the RIC module such as by direct memory access DMA transfer.

In embodiments the system controller may be in communication with a display controller . The system controller may send various instructions to the display controller to affect what is displayed on a display screen . For example the display controller may send a signal including an instruction to draw a particular image and the display screen may send a return signal that includes a user s command control i.e. a user s input when the display screen implements touchscreen capabilities .

In the various embodiments as illustrated in a radiofrequency transceiver device may include components in addition to those described above with reference to . These additional components may facilitate the incorporation of an App Space in communication with the system area and the implementation of apps in the App Space to perform various transforms on signals in various systems operating on the device.

In an embodiment the App Space may have a lower security priority than the system area in order to protect the core system functions performed in the system area . In other words the App Space may be held in a separate and secure area that cannot interfere with the core system functions in the system area thus protecting the integrity and security of the core system functions. Any apps executing on the radiofrequency transceiver device may also be confined to this separate and secure space for similar reasons.

The App Space may include a record of one or more executing apps privileges. For example the App Space may maintain that a particular app has RF signal collection control access privileges thereby allowing the particular app to apply transforms during the RF signal collection process in the collection component . The App Space may also include a record of the App Space allotment. The record may indicate where the apps are stored i.e. the app location which may be a special directory in the OS drive the memory available to the apps i.e. allocated RAM and the MIPS allocated to the apps i.e. allocated MIPS . Thus in an embodiment the App Space may manage apps and their available resources.

Also illustrated in is an RIC App Space for RIC apps which may be analogous to the App Space described above. In some embodiments the App Space and the RIC App Space may be co extensive on the radiofrequency transceiver device e.g. the RIC App Space may be located in the same area of the device as App Space and or may be considered a subset of App Space . In other embodiments the RIC App Space may be separate and distinct from App Space and may be located in a separate area of the device from the App Space . The RIC App Space may include a record of the RIC App Space allotment. The record may indicate where the RIC apps are stored i.e. the RIC app location . The record may also indicate the memory e.g. allocated RAM available to the RIC apps. For example a portion of the main system memory e.g. RAM may be allocated for Direct Memory Access transfers of data between the system area of the CPU and an RIC app that is executing on the RIC module . The record may also indicate the resources on the RIC module e.g. RICs or portions thereof allocated to the RIC apps i.e. allocated RIC resources .

In various embodiments the system controller may include an app application programming interface i.e. app API . The app API may include various libraries functions system calls etc. that may allow the apps in the App Space and or the RIC apps in the RIC App Space to perform transforms in various systems or various stages of signal processing. In a further embodiment the app API may enable an app RIC app to perform transforms of signals that the collection system obtains i.e. Rx transforms for example by allowing the app to affect how the A D converter operates in . In another embodiment using the app API the app RIC app may apply data transforms in the data storage retrieval system by performing offline post processing of the signal while the signal is stored in an RDI file. Similarly the app RIC app may perform transforms to signals during play back i.e. Tx transforms .

In another embodiment the app RIC app may use the app API to communicate with the display controller to perform various display transforms . Display transforms may include displaying various app specific items on the display screen such as customized user interfaces overlays etc. For example an app RIC app may cause an app specific user interface to be displayed on the display screen for use by the user.

In yet another embodiment the App Space RIC App Space may use the app API to display a navigable interactive display on the display screen. Such a display may feature the one or more apps included in the App Space and or one the one or more RIC apps included in the RIC App Space and may enable a user to browse and select the apps or RIC apps for execution on the radiofrequency transceiver device .

In other embodiments a first app API may be used by apps included in the App Space as described above and a second API i.e. an RIC app API not shown in may be used by RIC apps included in the RIC App Space and may perform analogous functions to the first app API .

A display panel of a radiofrequency transceiver device e.g. RFDCS may include various app specific user interfaces. In an embodiment when an app in the App Space and or an RIC app in the RIC App Space is successfully launched an app specific user interface associated with the launched app may be displayed on the display panel . For example if a noise reducing app i.e. APP is successfully launched the display panel may display the app specific user interface associated with the noise reducing app. The app specific user interface may include various visualizations displays graphics texts and other imagery. The app specific user interface may also include features with which the user may interact such as real or virtual knobs buttons sliders radio buttons scroll bars etc. For example the app specific user interface may display a record button that the user may select to begin recording RF signals. The app specific user interface may also include other buttons or features such as an apply transform button which in this example may apply noise reducing filtering of an RF signal being recorded.

In another embodiment the display panel may include a navigation bar or other feature e.g. the Show All APPs tab that enables a user to browse and select various apps included in the App Space and or the RIC App Space . In one embodiment multiple apps may be operating on the radiofrequency transceiver device simultaneously but only one app may be featured on the display panel . As illustrated in APP is featured as evidenced by its tab being highlighted in the navigation bar. In yet another embodiment the display panel may enable the user to switch which app is featured i.e. which app s app specific user interface is displayed . For example the user may select any one of the other apps in the navigation bar by selecting for example the APP tab the APP tab or the APP tab

Thus in various embodiments an app including an RIC app may utilize the app API as discussed above with reference to to present a fully customizable user interface on the display panel for displaying features specific to that app.

In block of embodiment method the radiofrequency transceiver device may access the RIC app. For example the radiofrequency transceiver device may access the RIC app by accessing the RIC app s source code stored in memory on the radiofrequency transceiver device or in memory stored on a network.

In block the radiofrequency transceiver device may run a compatibility check on the RIC app. The compatibility check may be performed by the system controller of the radiofrequency transceiver device such as described above with reference to . The compatibility check may be used to determine whether the RIC app can run on the radiofrequency transceiver device . In one embodiment running a compatibility check may include determining whether RIC configuration data included with the RIC app is compatible with the radiofrequency transceiver device .

In determination block the system controller may determine whether the RIC app is compatible with the radiofrequency transceiver device . In response to determining that the RIC app is not compatible with the radiofrequency transceiver device i.e. determination block No the system controller may not add the RIC app to the RIC App Space in block . The device may conclude performing the method . In response to determining that the RIC app is compatible with the radiofrequency transceiver device i.e. determination block Yes the system controller may optionally implement a checksum algorithm to check the RIC app s integrity using known methods in optional block . In an embodiment the checksum procedure may reveal whether the app includes errors that may have been introduced when being loaded on the radiofrequency transceiver device .

In optional determination block the system controller may determine whether the checksum indicates any errors. In response to determining that the checksum indicates one or more errors i.e. determination block Yes the system controller may not add the RIC app to the RIC App Space in block . The device may conclude performing the method . In response to determining that the checksum does not indicate any errors i.e. determination block No the system controller may optionally determine whether the RIC app is licensed in optional determination block . In an embodiment an RIC app may be licensed when the RIC app is purchased or obtained from an authorized software dealer. In various embodiments only licensed RIC apps may be allowed to operate on the radiofrequency transceiver device .

In response to determining that the RIC app is not licensed i.e. determination block No the system controller may not add the RIC app to the RIC App Space in block . The device may conclude performing the method . In response to determining that the RIC app is licensed i.e. determination block Yes the system controller may optionally determine whether the RIC app is signed in optional determination block . In an embodiment an RIC app may be signed when the RIC app includes some indicia of authenticity or a signature. For example the RIC app may include credentials that verify that the RIC app comes from a particular source.

In response to determining that the RIC app is not signed i.e. determination block No the system controller may not add the RIC app to the RIC App Space in block . The device may conclude performing the method . In response to determining that the RIC app is signed i.e. determination block Yes the system controller may add the RIC app to the RIC App Space in block . This may include storing the RIC configuration data included in the RIC App in the RIC App Space. The RIC configuration data may include for example at least one semiconductor intellectual property IP core that may be loaded onto an RIC in the RIC module during execution of the RIC app. In one embodiment after the RIC App is added to the RIC App Space the RIC App may be launched and run on the radiofrequency transceiver device as described below with reference to .

In some embodiments adding the RIC App to the RIC App Space may include adding the RIC App to a user interface of the radiofrequency transceiver device . For example an icon representing the RIC App may be displayed on a menu screen of the radiofrequency transceiver device and may be selected by the user to launch the RIC App. In some embodiments an app specific user interface associated with the RIC App may be displayed on the display screen of the device in response to launching the RIC App.

In block an execution environment for the RIC app may be created. In embodiments the creation of an execution environment for the RIC app may be performed by the system controller of the radiofrequency transceiver device . The creation of the execution environment may include reconfiguring at least one RIC to execute the RIC app. For example the at least one MC e.g. FPGA CPLD etc. may be reconfigured by the system controller based on configuration data included in or stored in association with the RIC app. The configuration data may be one or more stored intellectual property IP cores for example that may be loaded onto one or more RICs on the RIC module . The created execution environment may also facilitate data flow during the execution of the RIC app. For example the created execution environment may establish input s and or output s for the RIC app. Thus the execution environment may facilitate communication of data between the RIC app and one or more other apps executing on the radiofrequency transceiver device .

In one embodiment the RIC app may be launched in response to a request from another app i.e. a requesting app running on the radiofrequency transceiver device . The requesting app may identify data to be provided to the RIC app e.g. a radiofrequency signal to be processed by the RIC app using the at least one RIC. The requesting app may also specify an output destination for the data processed by the RIC app. The output destination may be for example the requesting app another app running on the radiofrequency transceiver device and or a storage retreival component of the device e.g. a hard drive . The system controller may create the execution environment for the RIC app to facilitate the data flows to and or from the RIC app as indicated by the requesting app.

In block the RIC app may be executed in the created execution environment using at least one RIC. In embodiments executing the RIC app may include processing at least one radiofrequency signal which may be a digitized radiofrequency signal using the at least one RIC. The processing of the at least one radiofrequency signal may include performing a transform on the at least one radiofrequency signal.

In determination block the system controller may determine whether to stop executing the RIC app on the at least one RIC. For example the system controller may determine that the execution of the RIC app should be stopped based on a determination that the RIC app is finished processing the at least one radiofrequency signal. The execution of the RIC App may also be stopped based on a request to stop executing the RIC app made by another app or a by user e.g. via a user input received at a user interface of the radiofrequency transceiver device . In response to determining that the execution of the RIC app should not be stopped i.e. determination block No the RIC app may continue to execute in the created execution environment in block . In response to determining that the execution of the RIC app should be stopped i.e. determination block Yes the system controller may stop the execution of the RIC app and perform a teardown of the created execution environment in block . In one embodiment performing a teardown of the execution environment may include de allocating resources on the RIC module previously allocated for executing the RIC app and making these resources available to another RIC app.

In various embodiments the system controller of the radiofrequency transceiver device may be configured to manage multiple RIC apps on the device. is a flow diagram illustrating an embodiment method for managing a plurality of RIC apps. In block the system controller may receive a request to launch at least one additional RIC app while at least one RIC app executes on the radiofrequency transceiver device . For example a first RIC app may be executing in a first execution environment created by the system controller as shown in block of . A request to launch an additional i.e. second RIC app may be made by a user of the radiofrequency transceiver device or by an additional app running on the radiofrequency transceiver device . In some embodiments the request to launch the additional i.e. second RIC app may be made by first RIC app.

The additional i.e. second RIC app may be a different RIC App than the first RIC app executing on the device . Alternately the additional RIC app may be the same RIC app as the first RIC app. For example multiple copies of the same RIC app may execute simultaneously on the radiofrequency transceiver device e.g. using different portions of the RIC module and may for instance perform similar or identical processing tasks on different radiofrequency signals.

In determination block the system controller may determine whether sufficient resources exist to execute the additional RIC app on the at least one RIC of the radiofrequency transceiver device . In embodiments determining whether sufficient resources exist may include determining whether sufficient space exists on the at least one RIC to reconfigure the at least one RIC based on RIC configuration data associated with the additional RIC app.

In response to determining that sufficient resources do not exist on the at least one RIC to execute the additional RIC app i.e. determination block No the system controller may not launch the additional RIC app in block . In response to determining that sufficient resources do exist on the at least one RIC to execute the additional RIC app i.e. determination block Yes the system controller may launch the additional RIC app in block . In block the system controller may create an additional execution environment for the additional RIC app where creating the additional execution environment may include reconfiguring at least one RIC to execute the at least one additional RIC app using the RIC configuration data associated with the additional RIC app. In block the additional RIC app may execute in the additional execution environment on the at least one RIC. The first RIC app may continue to execute in the first execution environment on the at least one RIC i.e. in parallel with the execution of the additional RIC .

Thus in various embodiments multiple RIC apps may execute simultaneously on the at least one RIC of the radiofrequency transceiver device . The system controller may continue to receive requests to launch additional RIC apps. For each additional RIC app the system controller may determine whether sufficient resources exist to execute a given RIC app on the at least one RIC and an execution environment for the RIC app may be created only in response to determining that sufficient resources exist to execute the RIC app on the at least one RIC.

Various embodiments may also include dynamic reconfiguration of the at least one RIC while an RIC app is executing. is a flow diagram illustrating an embodiment method for reconfiguring at least one RIC while an RIC app executes on the at least one RIC. In block the system controller may receive a request to reconfigure the at least one RIC while an RIC app executes on the at least one RIC. The request to reconfigure the at least one RIC may be made by a user of the radiofrequency transceiver device by the RIC app itself or by another app running on the radiofrequency transceiver device . For example the RIC app may process data e.g. digitized radiofrequency signals using an initial configuration of the at least one RIC. A second app which may be receiving the data processed by the RIC app may request that the RIC app modify one or more parameters of the processing of the radiofrequency signals which may include reconfiguring of the at least one RIC on which the RIC app is executing. In block the system controller may reconfigure the at least one RIC in response to the request. In block the RIC app may execute on the reconfigured at least one RIC.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium or non transitory processor readable storage medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside on a non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage medium. Non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage media may be any storage media that may be accessed by a computer or a processor. By way of example but not limitation such non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage media may include RAM ROM EEPROM FLASH memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of non transitory computer readable and processor readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable storage medium and or computer readable storage medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the following claims and the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

