---

title: Methods and systems for multirobotic management
abstract: Multirobotic management can involve communications between a command or leader robot and one or more client or follower robots through a cloud computing system. In an example implementation, a leader robot can receive first sensory data captured by a first follower robot and second sensory data captured by a second follower robot, determine a command function based on at least one of the first sensory data and the second sensory data, and communicate with at least one of the first follower robot and the second follower robot based on the command function.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513624&OS=09513624&RS=09513624
owner: X Development LLC
number: 09513624
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150406
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 466 030 filed on May 7 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 483 295 filed on May 6 2011 and to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 593 078 filed on Jan. 31 2012 all of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or system or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud. 

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

In one aspect of this disclosure a first example method is provided. The first example method involves receiving by a leader robot first sensory data captured by a first follower robot and second sensory data captured by a second follower robot. The first follower robot has a first sensing capability and the second follower robot has a second sensing capability that is different than the first sensing capability. The leader robot is configured to communicate with the first follower robot and the second follower robot and to direct action of one or more of the first follower robot and the second follower robot. The first example method further involves determining a command function based on at least one of the first sensory data and the second sensory data. The first example method still further involves communicating with at least one of the first follower robot and the second follower robot based on the command function.

In another aspect of this disclosure a second example method is provided. The second example method involves receiving by a command robot data captured by one or more client robots in a plurality of client robots. The command robot is configured to communicate with each of the plurality of client robots and to direct action of one or more of the plurality of client robots. Each client robot in the plurality of client robots has a respective data capture capability and is configured to communicate with the command robot through a cloud computing system. The second example method further involves determining a command function based on the data captured by the one or more client robots. The second example method still further involves communicating with at least one client robot in the plurality of client robots based on the command function.

In still another aspect of this disclosure an example system is provided. The example system includes a command robot and a plurality of client robots. The command robot is configured to communicate with each of the plurality of client robots and to direct action of one or more of the plurality of client robots. Each client robot includes at least one sensor a client robot processor a client robot memory and client robot program instructions stored in the client robot memory and executable by the client robot processor to perform client robot operations involving capturing data from the at least one sensor capturing data from an electronic device and communicating with the command robot through a cloud computing system. The command robot includes a command robot processor a command robot memory and command robot program instructions stored in the command robot memory and executable by the command robot processor to perform command robot operations involving communicating with each client robot through the cloud computing system analyzing data captured by each client robot determining a command function based on the analyzed data and communicating with one or more of the client robots based on the command function.

In yet aspect of this disclosure an example article of manufacture is provided. The example article of manufacture includes a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon program instructions that upon execution by a computing device cause the computing device to perform operations. The operations include a receiving first sensory data captured by a first robot and second sensory data captured by a second robot in which the first robot has a first sensing capability and the second robot has a second sensing capability that is different than the first sensing capability b determining a command function based on at least one of the first sensory data and the second sensory data and c communicating with at least one of the first robot and the second robot based on the command function.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the Figures and the following Detailed Description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying Figures which form a part hereof. In the Figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description Figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure generally relates to a robotic method and system where a command capability such as a command robot has data input from a plurality of other robots with the command robot being able to coordinate the activities of the other robots through a cloud computational system or resource and in particular to allocate tasks between the other robots in a manner best suited for the state and capability of each other robot.

In particular but without limitation the disclosure provides for a first robot that may have a function which enables the robot to assess the vicinity of the robot or environment for environmental data capture. A second robot may have similar function but may be different in functionality and or have different data capture from the first robot. A command robot or centralized command has a functionality which communicates with the first and second robots as client robots through a cloud computational system and then draw conclusions results or determinations for some function for the first and or second robot to execute as a result of the analysis performed such as through a coordinated allocation of tasks based upon the state or capability of a respective robot.

This disclosure includes inter alia methods and systems for robot and user interaction over the cloud. Within examples cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A robot may be any device that has a computing ability and interacts with its surroundings with an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A client device may be configured as a robot including various sensors and devices in the forms of modules and different modules may be added to the robot or removed from the robot depending on requirements. In some examples a robot may be configured to receive a second device such as mobile phone that may be configured to function as an accessory or a brain of the robot.

In examples described herein a robot may interact with the cloud to perform any number of actions such as to share information with other cloud computing devices. Within examples a robot may interact with a user in a manner that is based upon many types of received information. A robot may access a user device to determine or identify information about a user or related to the user and the robot may be configured to tailor a method of interaction with the user based on the identified information. A robot may further receive data associated with the user to identify the user such as using speech or face recognition. The robot may provide a personalized interaction or response to the user based on the determined information of the user.

In some instances the default user profile may simply be referred to as a user profile. Further the user profile may be linked to other profiles that the user has created as on social networking sites such that the robot can access up to date and accurate information regarding the user. The user profile may include information corresponding to the user s personality history lifestyle preferences and or predispositions. The robot may use such information when interacting with the user.

This disclosure provides methods and apparatus for a robotic method and system that has a function or capability for directing as by coordinating a plurality of robots some or all of which may have a data capture capability for assessing the environment or vicinity of the robot and or a user or subject. The term environment will be used in this disclosure as a generic reference to whatever may be assessed in the way of conditions in the local vicinity of the robot or a remote vicinity which may be where a user or a robot is located or may be located at some future time or where there is some interest presented to the robot or user. The plurality of robots are sometimes referred to herein as client or follower robots as these client robots will be subject to a command robot or central command control.

In one aspect a robot includes a computer processor memory and operating system with at least one sensory device capturing data relating to environmental conditions in the vicinity of the robot. The robot can also include a further data capture capability for electronic data capture.

That environmental input may be processed to obtain and retrieve information regarding a state of the environment drawn from an informational source containing environmental information which may be residing in the robotic apparatus memory may be otherwise accessible locally or may be remote as in a cloud computing system. The environmental input may be obtained variously from among a plurality of different robots thereby constituting multiple different inputs. So too the one or more robots may be capturing or acquiring electronic data from its environment or otherwise in the course of what that robot is currently doing.

The one or more environmental inputs may then be variously accessed by a command or leader robot particularly through a cloud computing system which analyzes and processes the input s for directing as by coordinating the further activity of one or more of the robots.

That response by the command robot to obtaining the input data from another robot s may be processing of the sensory input to extract environment information regarding a state of the environment drawn from the robot sensory input and or an informational source containing environment information. That retrieved environment information is then used in performing an output function for the robot s which may be an interaction with a user or with the environment itself.

An aspect of the disclosure provides a method for multirobot interaction and coordination having a first robot with a first sensing capability and a second robot with a second sensing capability. Each robot has a communication link with a cloud computing system.

A robot control command program communicates with each robot through at least the cloud computing system centralized command but could additionally or in lieu thereof operate through some other communication medium this could be local data transfer between robots or a database.

The command program analyzes data capture obtained by each robot through that robot s respective sensing capability. The command program then performs a command function for the first and or second robots using the data obtained from each robot.

In an aspect the method may include executing the command function to determine and then distribute data capture from the first robot to the second robot. That may be to coordinate an ongoing activity of each robot.

In an aspect the disclosure contemplates multiple interchanges between command and client robots. For example the data capture from the first robot is analyzed through the command program then provided as a first input to the second robot. This could be for instance the first robot may be capable of determining the temperature in a part of a building and that information is then processed by the command robot and provided as first input to a second robot in another area of the building perhaps in a location where temperature adjustment is effected for the building. This embodiment of the method would then further include obtaining initial feedback from said second robot based upon said first input. Using the foregoing example the second robot may then effect a change in the temperature of the building. The command robot then analyzes the initial data feedback from the second robot obtaining further data capture from the second robot. Again using the foregoing example that data capture may be the change in temperature manipulated by the second robot. The command robot then analyzes the further data capture and provides a further command function using the further data capture analysis. That further command function may be using the further data capture from the second robot to provide a second data input to the first robot e.g. building heat cool has been modified and obtaining a secondary feedback from the first robot based upon the second data input e.g. detecting a changed temperature in the vicinity of the first robot analyzing the secondary data feedback from the first robot and providing a still further command function using the secondary feedback analysis e.g. determining that the temperature of the room sensed in the area of the first robot has not been adequately modified and therefore commanding the second robot to effect a further temperature manipulation .

In a further aspect of the disclosure a method and system for multirobot interaction and coordination uses a plurality of client robots including at least a first and second client robot each client robot having a data capture capability. Each client robot can have a respective communication link with a cloud computing system.

A command robot has a control command program which communicates with each client robot through at least the referred cloud computing system. The command program analyzes data capture obtained by each client robot through a respective data capture capability of that client robot. The command robot then performs a command function for one or more of the client robots using the data capture obtained from one or more of the client robots. That command function may be to coordinate an ongoing activity of each client robot. It could be a method and system where at least one or more of the client robots has a functional capability different from another of the client robots and the command function is to allocate a task or tasks to a client robot having a preferred functionality for performing the task or tasks.

In some embodiments each client robot includes a processor at least one sensor detecting data in the vicinity of the client robot and memory including instructions stored thereon executable by the processor to perform functions of obtaining data capture from 1 an electronic device and 2 environment sensory input data regarding sensed environment condition by the client robot. Each client robot can have a respective communication link with a cloud computing system.

The command robot has a command processor and command memory including a control command program which has instructions executable by the command processor to perform functions of communicating with each client robot through at least the cloud computing system analyzing data capture obtained by each client robot and performing a command function for one or more of the client robots using the data capture obtained from one or more of the client robots. This method and system may be repeated as between data gathering by the client robots analysis by the command robot with a command function based thereon feedback from a client robot in view of the command function and further data gathering analysis command function feedback and so on. The command function may be to determine and then distribute data capture from a first client robot to a second client robot in this manner. Further the command function may be to coordinate an ongoing activity of each of the first and second client robots. It will be understood that the number of client robots is not limited to just two but can be as many as desired. The command robot may also be a distributed system comprising modules functioning as a command apparatus device or system.

Visual imaging can determine aspects of the environment of a client robot. The robot could also sense other electromagnetic radiation such as infrared acoustic such as ultrasound and tactile observations to name but a few. It is an aspect of the disclosure that the various sensory inputs would be processed either locally or more through a cloud based computational system.

Any of the methods and systems described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform any of the methods described herein. Further examples may also include articles of manufacture including tangible computer readable media that have computer readable instructions encoded thereon and the instructions may comprise instructions to perform any of the methods described herein.

The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage medium.

In addition circuitry may be provided that is wired to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In still further examples any type of devices may be used or configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein. Robotic apparatus and robot are therefore used in the broadest sense.

In yet further examples any type of devices may be used or configured as means for performing functions of any of the methods described herein or any portions of the methods described herein .

Referring now to the Figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing client devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the client devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific client devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more client devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more of fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the infrastructure .

The exemplary system includes a number of client devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer client devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of client devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the client devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the client devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers infrared sensors optical sensors still image or motion picture biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems RADAR wireless sensors haptic arrays and other touch sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured to use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured to use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robot and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robot based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot as discussed above.

The client device may also have components or devices that allow the client device to interact with its environment. For example the client device may have mechanical actuators such as motors wheels movable arms that enable the client device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the client device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from a client device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the client device may be configured to receive a device such as device that includes the processor the storage and the sensors . For example the client device may be a robot that has a number of mechanical actuators e.g. a movable base and the robot may be configured to receive a mobile telephone to function as the brains or control components of the robot. The device may be considered a module of the robot. The device may be physically attached to the robot. For example a mobile phone may sit on a robot s chest and form an interactive display. The device may provide a robot with sensors a wireless link and processing capabilities for example. The device may allow a user to download new routines for his or her robot from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select this routine using a mobile phone to download the routine from the cloud and when the mobile phone is placed into or coupled to the robot the robot would be able to perform the downloaded action.

In some examples the client device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the Internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the client device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen that are included within the device .

In one example the robot may be a toy with only limited mechanical functionality and by connecting device to the robot the toy robot may now be capable of performing a number of functions with the aid of the device and or the cloud. In this manner the robot or components of a robot can be attached to a mobile phone to transform the mobile phone into a robot e.g. with legs arms that is connected to a server to cause operation functions of the robot.

The mountable device may further be configured to maximize runtime usage of the robot e.g. if the robot could learn what happens to cause the user to turn the toy off or set the toy down the device may be configured to perform functions to counteract such occurrences .

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software such as the robotic development platform ESRP from Evolution Robotics and MRDS Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio and other examples also include ROSJAVA. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework .

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send sensory data of clothing attributes to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data back from the cloud based upon processing of that sensory data. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the Internet.

The cloud may receive input from several robots. Data from each robot may be compiled into a larger data set. For example the robot may take a picture of an object image and upload the image to the cloud . An object recognition program in the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the image and provide data to all the robots connected to the cloud about the recognized object as well as possibly about other characteristics e.g. metadata of the recognized object such as a location size weight color. Thus every robot may be able to know attributes of an object in an image uploaded by the robot .

The robots and may perform any number of actions with an area people other robots. In one example each robot and has WiFi or other network based connectivity and will upload publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with any other robot. In this manner each robot and shares experiences with each other to enable learned behaviors. For example the robot may be in a showroom setting evaluating a customer s selection of a clothing item. Robot makes an assessment or determination based upon the observed clothing and or user which is then shared with the other robots and through the cloud . Each robot and will have access to real time up to date data. One or more of these other robots may then proceed to perform some further function such as obtaining a clothing selection in the correct size from a storeroom and delivering it to the customer. In another example the robot can download data indicating images seen by the other robots and to help the robot better identify an object using various views e.g. in instances in which the robots and have captured images of the object from a different perspective .

In still another example the robot may build a map of an area and the robot can download the map to have knowledge of the area. Similarly the robot could update the map created by the robot with new information about the area e.g. the hallway now has boxes or other obstacles or with new information collected from sensors that the robot may not have had e.g. the robot may be an outdoor robot and may record and add temperature data to the map if the robot did not have a temperature sensor . Overall the robots and may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot and can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot.

Sharing and adaptation capabilities enable a variety of applications based on a variety of inputs data received from the robots and .

In one example the cloud may include store or provide access to a database of information related to objects and the database may be accessible by all the robots and . The database may include information identifying an object image or something in the image and details of the object e.g. mass properties shape instructions for cleaning cost any detail that may be associated with the object that can be accessed by the robots and to perform object recognition.

The database may be accessible by all robots through the cloud or alternatively directly accessible by all robots without communication through the cloud . The database may thus be a shared knowledge base stored in the cloud .

Thus in some examples robots may share new or learned behaviors through the cloud . The cloud may have a server that stores robot learned activities or behaviors resulting in a shared knowledge base of behaviors and heuristics for object interactions e.g. a robot app store . Specifically a given robot may perform actions and build a compendium related to an article of clothing and then the robot can upload the data to the cloud to share this knowledge with all other robots. In this example a transportation of the given robot s consciousness can be made through the cloud from one robot to another e.g. robot Bob builds up a map of some clothing and the knowledge of Bob can be downloaded onto another robot to receive knowledge of the map .

Thus within examples the robots and may share information through the cloud and may access the database .

As mentioned robots or any client computing device may interact with the cloud and users to perform any number of functions. Example functions are described below.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes capture an image of an object. In an example a robot may capture many images of objects using any number of sensors such as a camera still pictures or video feeds infrared projectors and other sensors as discussed herein.

At block the method includes capture information associated with characteristics about the object. For example a robot may optionally determine or record dimensions a texture color pattern material shape or any type of physical attribute of the object.

As another example in an instance in which the robot may communicate with the object the robot may capture additional data of the object such as by accessing a magnetic strip RFID near field communication clip bar code of the clothing item. The robot may thereby communicate with the clothing to determine many types of data.

At block the method includes query a computing device with the captured image and or information. As an example the robot may query the cloud with a captured image by sending the captured image to the cloud and requesting information about the image such as an identity of the image or information associated with characteristics of the clothing in the image. Alternatively the robot may query another robot directly to provide or request information about the object. This may be a command robot as described herein.

At block the method includes receiving information or retrieving information associated with the object. For example the robot may receive data from the cloud as by processing and a command function from the command robot indicating an identity of the object in the image or other information related to or associated with characteristics about the object with directions from the command robot to proceed according to a task involving the object.

At block the method includes storing the received information for future use. For example after receiving the information from the cloud the robot would be able to recognize the object in the future enabling the robot to learn and adapt. Storing is an optional step.

At block the method includes performing an action based on the received information from the command robot. The action may vary based on a type of received information.

The system shown in has a command or leader robot CR . Command robot can the same general components as the client robots but also includes a command program for interacting with the client robots. The command program can include functionality and executable instructions for communicating with the client robots and performing command functions directing the conduct or action of one or more or all of the client robots.

The communication between the command robot and the client robots can occur through a cloud computing system as described above. In the scenario depicted in client robot obtains sensory data using the camera that the light fixture is not functioning is not lighting . This sensory data is transmitted through the cloud to the command robot . Command robot processes that data input from client robot and determines that client robot is in an area where the power source P for the light fixture can be accessed. Command robot then performs an output function to direct client robot to do an electronic data capture to determine if power is flowing to the light fixture . Client robot makes the data capture that the power is operating and that input is relayed through the cloud to the command robot . Command robot ascertains that client robot is present in the room and performs a further output function by directing client robot to retrieve a new light bulb to replace that in the light fixture .

Client robot is then accessed again by the command robot to obtain sensory image data regarding whether the new light bulb is operating in the light fixture and the image data processed indicate that the light bulb is glowing. That further data capture is then relayed to command robot which based upon this feedback from client robot now directs client robot to dispose of the non functioning light bulb.

In some examples the methodology of application to facilitate object recognition may be a higher level service e.g. higher in a software stack such that details and specifics for how to recognize an object may be performed by the cloud. The robot may be configured to perform actions functions based on a result of object recognition rather than or in addition to performing functions regarding recognizing an object. As an example using the application the robot may execute software to perform immediate function calls such as OrientObject which may return information associated with an object e.g. placing it right side up or RotateObject which may cause the robot to pick up the object and obtain further views sensory inputs. These immediate functions could be done through local processing within the robot or by enabling function calls and operation through the cloud which greatly facilitates control and operation of the robot without having to control or tie up more limited computational capacities of the robot for example.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

