---

title: Method and computer system for serving commerce information of an outsource provider in connection with host web pages offering commercial opportunities
abstract: An ecommerce outsourcing system and method provides hosts with transparent, context-sensitive e-commerce supported pages. The look and feel of a target host is captured for future use. The host is provided with one or more links for inclusion within a page on the host website that correlates with a selected commerce object, which may be contextually related to material in the page. The commerce object can be a product, a product category, or a dynamic selection indicator. Upon activation of the provided link, a visitor computer is served with a page with the look and feel of the host website and with content based upon the associated commerce object. Where the commerce object is a dynamic selection indicator, the content is selected at the time of activation based upon an analysis of the page containing the activated link.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639876&OS=09639876&RS=09639876
owner: DDR HOLDINGS, LLC
number: 09639876
owner_city: Dunwoody
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150521
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 13 970 515 filed Aug. 19 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 043 228 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 906 979 filed Oct. 18 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 515 825 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 343 464 filed Jan. 30 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 818 399 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 461 997 filed Jun. 11 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 993 572 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 398 268 filed Sep. 17 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 629 135 which claims the benefit of application Ser. No. 60 100 697 filed Sep. 17 1998 which applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention relates to a system and method supporting commerce syndication. More specifically the invention relates to a system and method for computer based information providers to receive outsourced electronic commerce facilities in a context sensitive transparent manner.

The World Wide Web began as a simple interface to the Internet using HTML hypertext markup language as a means of linking documents together. This allowed a researcher for example to embed active references in his or her documents that if selected would enable the reader to review the source of the reference first hand. Programmers quickly capitalized on this technology creating web sites which reflected less staid purposes laying the groundwork for the literal web of content and interactive applications that exists today. In the early stages website programmers increased visitor traffic by placing links within their websites to other websites usually related in content or function in exchange for a reciprocal link. Additionally directories of websites such as Yahoo and search engines such as WebCrawler began to appear in an attempt to organize the content of the Internet so that its users could create custom links pages related to specific topics.

In these early days the Web was mostly trafficked by programmers and techies and a commune type share and share alike mindset prevailed. As a result people were happy to litter their sites with links knowing that odds were others would do the same for them and the traffic gain loss would probably balance out. So despite the fact that by including and promoting a links page website operators were effectively encouraging people to leave their website link sharing developed into a standard practice.

Then entrepreneurs and other business oriented individuals came along and introduced capitalism to the Internet. Profit oriented website operators began to seek visitors wherever they could find them and opportunistic owners of popular sites began to realize that they had an increasingly scarce resource visitors. Such website owners began to sell the links they had previously offered for free in the form of paid advertisements. Search engines and directories became increasingly popular for two main reasons. First the number of websites was growing astronomically so it was becoming harder for users to find what they wanted. Second since reciprocal links were either going away or were being replaced by links exclusively to non competing websites search engines and directories were the only way to find multiple resources for a single topic.

Amid frantic efforts on the part of corporate websites to get noticed the sale of banner ads blossomed into a large industry called Internet advertising. Thousands of websites created space for banner ads and called the space inventory. At first they priced ads as a print ad might be priced by CPM or cost per thousand impressions each ad made on website visitors. Over time this pricing model gave way to arrangements more favorable to advertisers such as Cost Per Click through and Cost Per Inquiry meaning the advertiser only needs to pay when a visitor sees a banner ad and clicks on it and completes an information request form on the advertiser s site .

Some of the most successful Internet commerce websites led by online bookseller Amazon.com have begun to take an even more results driven approach to the purchase of banner ads. They have offered to pay only for ads that when clicked result in a product sale. To provide a stronger incentive than a simple banner ad these companies let third party website owners list a subset of their goods e.g. 10 of Amazon.com s millions of books selected by the website owner and promote them as they choose within their websites. Initiatives such as these have come to be described as affiliate programs associate programs or commission based advertising programs .

The benefits of affiliate programs are significant. To the website owner they constitute revenue generating web content without requiring an investment in product inventory or additional infrastructure. They also create new revenues without necessarily reducing the website s available ad inventory. However the greater benefit almost always accrues not to the affiliate but to Amazon.com and other online stores. Not only do these sites benefit from the marketing resources of the affiliate operators they are also able to lure the visitor traffic away from the affiliate. Once a visitor clicks on an affiliate ad and enters an online store that visitor has left the affiliate s site and is gone. At best affiliates are able to use frames to keep a shell of their own website around the vendor s site but this is only a marginally effective solution. No alternatives have been able to address a fundamental drawback of the affiliate programs the loss of the visitor to the vendor. At best some Internet affiliate sales vendors have begun placing return to referring website links on their order confirmation screens an approach that is largely ineffective. This limitation of an affiliate program restricts participation to less trafficked websites that are unconcerned about losing visitors. Meanwhile search engines and directories continue to increase in their usefulness and popularity while banner ads and old style links continue their rapid loss of effectiveness and popular usage.

The present invention overcomes these limitation of present affiliate commerce systems and provides other benefits as will become clearer to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description.

The affiliate commerce system and method of the present invention represents a new paradigm of co marketing on the Internet. Not only does the present invention provide its Hosts with the added value and incremental revenues of traditional affiliate programs but the company also enables Hosts to control the customer experience before during and after the purchase transaction. At the same time Merchants receive the same benefits as with older affiliate programs i.e. increased marketing potential incremental sales and new customer relationships but without the restrictive limitations of affiliate programs the loss of hard won visitor traffic.

Additionally the present invention can actually obviate the need for some merchants to invest in their own unique Internet presence. By using the present invention as their primary online sales channel these Merchants can focus on product development production and order fulfillment and leave the exploration of the Internet to experts. The resulting ongoing cost savings and operational efficiencies magnify the potential benefits of the Internet while reducing the initial costs.

According to the present invention the look and feel of each participating Host is captured and stored. Hosts may include links to selected products or product categories within pages residing on the Hosts website. Upon actuation of such a link by a visitor of the Host website a page is presented to the visitor incorporating a replica of the Host s look and feel directed to the sale of the selected products or product categories.

The look and feel of a host is captured and stored by receiving an identification of an example page of a target host. The identified page is retrieved. The look and feel elements of the page are identified and these elements are stored for future use in generating outsourced transparent pages pages served by a server other than the host but with the host s look and feel. Such pages give the viewer of the page the impression that she is viewing pages served by the host.

The links included by the host directed to the outsource provider need not be statically linked to a particular product or product category. Such links may direct the outsource provider to dynamically select content to serve within the host s look and feel. This content may be selected based upon a contextual analysis of the page which includes the link. Further the dynamic content need not be limited to products or product categories but may include any content within the system s data store that is amenable to contextual correlation with content in the page containing the link.

A cost effective scalable architecture may be used to serve dynamically constructed pages such as those served by the e commerce outsource provider. This architecture includes three levels a Web server layer an application server layer and a database server layer.

The Web server layer provides a front end presentation layer for interacting with end users. This layer may consist of one or more interchangeable low cost server systems. Any request from an end user may be fielded by any system within the layer. The selected system can contact any application server within the application layer to provide processed data for use in responding to the end user request.

The application layer supports interacting with the database server level to acquire needed data and processing it prior to presentation by the Web server layer. As with the Web server layer this layer may consist of one or more interchangeable low cost server systems. Any Web server system may submit a request to any application server. The application server includes processing functionality suitable for the types of pages to be dynamically constructed.

The database server layer supports low level management of data used in dynamic page construction. The data store across the one or more low cost server systems is seamlessly viewed as an integrated whole. As a consequence any database server within the layer can field any request for data submitted by an application server.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

A typical embodiment of the present invention will include a data store including a look and feel description associated with a host website a communications link to a visitor computer and a processor. The processor performs the tasks of capturing a look and feel description associated with a host website storing the captured look and feel description in the data store providing the host website with a link that link correlates the host website with a commerce object for inclusion within a page on the host website and which when activated causes the processor to serve an e commerce supported page via the communication link with a look and feel corresponding to the captured look and feel description of the host website associated with the provided link and with content based on the commerce object associated with the provided link. The Internet serves as the communication link to visitor computers.

In a preferred embodiment as exhibited by the duties of the processor are split among several computer systems . The data store may be implemented through a database system . The Internet serves as the communication link to visitor computers . In this preferred embodiment the system utilizes multiple inexpensive computer systems at every level of the architecture. Routing between levels will automatically distribute the load amongst the functioning computers. Increasing throughput becomes a matter of adding more computers not scaling up the existing ones. This arrangement also provides fault tolerance since the failure of one server will not incapacitate the system as long as another server providing the same service is alive. This approach also permits the distribution of servers geographically. A router may also provide further load balancing.

The tasks performed by the processor may utilize a variety of underlying software technology. In a preferred embodiment the software architecture can be divided into 3 tiers web server application server and database server. Each tier is comprised of a number of software layers.

The Web Server tier accesses application functionality by calling a single Request Application Programming Interface API . The API will take a Document Object Model DOM as specified by W3C in http www.w3.org TR REC DOM Level 1 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety object as a parameter and return a DOM object as the response. The request will be relayed to the application server tier where a dispatching method will unpack the request object inspect it invoke the desired method and send back the response object. This approach means that new functionality becomes available as soon as the application server is upgraded. It is not necessary to develop a set of stubs that mirror the new API call. This is a major advantage because new functionality in the application tier can be exploited immediately simply by modifying the Active Server Page ASP scripts. No web server resident Dynamic Link Libraries DLLs need to be upgraded so the server does not need to be shut down. The web server tier will typically run on server computers having a multitasking operating system such as Windows NT from Microsoft or other suitable operating system software. The Web Server tier contains the following layers as illustrated in 

In a preferred embodiment the Web server layer supports the following four Web interface modules. In a preferred embodiment these modules are encoded with ASP to generate appropriate HTML Javascript. The four modules are as follows 

The Merchant Manager is the Control Center for Merchants. This module allows the merchant to maintain their products catalogs contact information track orders process returns run reports etc.

A merchant representative must login before performing any system activities. Any valid merchant user will be able to perform all possible actions on the merchant to which it is related. Only registered merchants will have a valid account. An account for a merchant is established when the merchant registers with the system. A merchant representative may initiate registration via a web interface. The signup process must collect basic merchant information including the information necessary to pay the merchant and a password which will be used to create a user account for the merchant. Once the merchant is approved this may be automatic the merchant will be sent an email containing a unique user id which can be used to login to the system.

When a representative logs in she is taken directly to the Merchant Manager as seen in and assigned a Merchant Session ID Merchant SID . All pages within the merchant system must retrieve the MerchantSID from the HTTP request and validate it. If the session does not validate the representative is taken back to the Login screen.

The Host Manager is the Control Center for Hosts. Here a Host can track sales design their store front generate links to merchant products get traffic order reports update account information etc

For a host to gain access to the host manager system the host must be registered. depicts a flow chart for a typical registration process. A host representative may initiate contact with the system via a web interface. The signup process must collect basic host information including the information necessary to pay the host a commission for purchases through his site which is saved by the system . Optionally a click agreement containing terms of use may be presented requiring agreement to proceed. If at some point the representative elects to cancel or reject the use agreement he or she is returned to her point of entry . The system may then request the representative to select a user identification and a password . If the selected user identification is already in use the representative may be prompted to select a user identification . The information associated with the host is stored and the representative may proceed to the host manager system page .

When a host logs in they are taken directly to the Host Manager as seen in and assigned a Host Session ID Host SID . All pages within the host system must request the Host Sid and call the ValidateHostSessionID function. If the session does not validate the user is taken back to the Login screen.

The shopping module is the part of the application that allows customers to find to search select and buy a product. There is also a return product section accessible to the customer after the order has been placed.

Shopping is the part of the application that the general public will encounter. displays a screen capture of a typical shopping page in a preferred embodiment depicts pages and procedures in a shopping process as implemented in a preferred embodiment.

The customer was on a host site and saw a link to buy something created via the Link generator . When he or she clicks on the link he or she is taken to the shopping page parameterized with the Link ID . If an error occurs during this transition the visitor is routed to a link error page .

A variety of generic information may be available from any shopping page within the system. Such information could include information about the e commerce outsource provider information about the merchant offering the current commerce object information about an involved party s privacy policy or information about an involved party s security policy .

Customers will be able to browse a merchant s catalogue and place items in their shopping cart . When the customer is ready to checkout the system will acquire payment information and shipping information from the user confirm this information and execute the transaction. The receipt including a URL that can be used to track the order status e.g. it could be bookmarked will be displayed to the customer . By visiting the URL provided upon checkout from the shopping experience the customer can check the status of their order initiate returns and check on their return status.

The System Manager is the Control Center for administrators. The administrator can monitor the day to day activities and status of the system. When an administrator logs in he or she is taken directly to the System Manager and assigned a Nexchange Session ID NexchangeSID . All pages within the System Manager system must request the NexchangeSID and call the ValidateNexchangeSessionID function. If the session does not validate the user is taken back to the Login screen. Access to administration functions will require authentication using the name and password for a valid administration account.

The home main page of the System Manager provides a quick summary of the current system status a screen capture of a typical main page in a preferred embodiment is seen in . This summary includes pending orders orders host statistics merchant statistics and an unattended orders list.

An administrator will be able to configure a hosts or merchant s payment policy. This includes specifications for any holdbacks and a method for calculating commission payment. At the request of a merchant an administrator will be able to configure the system to reject all shopping traffic from a particular host merchant arrangement. The host and merchant contacts will be notified via email. An administrator will also be able to activate or deactivate a host. The system will reject shopping traffic from inactive hosts. When a host s status is changed the host contact will be notified via email. An administrator will configure the system to enforce system wide policies. System wide policies include the number of days allowed for returns.

The system will periodically run an audit process and report on situations of concern. For example an audit could search for orders that have not been serviced for a certain period of time. The system may also report on possible security situations such as an inordinate number of account lockout incidents.

The business functionality is provided via application servers . An application server will consist of one or more of the business modules wrapped with an appropriate middleware adapter. This arrangement allows delivery of services via many different mechanisms. For example if it becomes desirable to serve some functions to a Java client a Java Remote Method Invocation RMI version of an application server could be built. The new server could be developed rapidly because only an RMI wrapper would need to be developed while the application logic would be reused. In a preferred embodiment this layer consists of a set of core C software modules that encapsulate business functions.

The Application Server tier may run on one or more application server computers. The application servers are stateless. This means that for two application servers serving the same functionality one is as good as another . In the event of failure a client s requests may be handled by a different server than before the failure. Since it does not matter which server services a request routing is greatly simplified. The stateless server approach also provides excellent fault tolerance since all application servers can back each other up. Use of a combination of sticky routing and caching to significantly ameliorate any detrimental performance implications of the stateless approach while preserving most of the benefit. Once a client begins using a particular service the system will show a preference for routing future requests from that client to the same server. The servers maintain a cache recently used data and will only access the database if the desired item cannot be used in cache. Since the routing is sticky the client s data will often be in cache and in many cases no database access will be required. Should the client be routed to a new server the session data can be to retrieved from the database as occurs in the vanilla stateless model. In a preferred embodiment the functionality of this layer utilizes one or more low cost server systems running a suitable operating system such as Microsoft Windows NT. This tier is also composed of several software layers as illustrated in 

In a preferred embodiment the application server layer includes the following eight application servers 

The Cashier server is analogous to a cashier in a bricks and mortar store. The cashier s responsibilities are listed below 

The catalog is an arrangement of product information. The catalog server supports a hierarchical browsing mode and various searching functions. Its responsibilities are listed below 

The credit processor takes a candidate order and performs card authorization and fraud screening. The card processor cooperates with the order tracker to keep the status of the order updated.

The Notifier keeps track of who wants to be notified of what and how they should be notified. The notifier receives notification of various system events and takes the appropriate course of action. The appropriate course of action will depend upon the event and the party to be notified. For example a merchant that does a high volume of sales and is already integrated with the system may not wish to receive email notification of every order.

The Ledger is a record of all financial events. The ledger contains interfaces for posting events and interfaces querying and inspecting the ledger. Responsibilities include 

This is the repository of order information. The order tracker includes a cashier s interface for creating a new order a Merchant s interface for keeping the order status updated and a Customer Service interface for checking on the status of the order and making relevant annotations.

The shopping cart is simply a collection of Inventory Reservation documents that represent the items that have been selected by the shopper. The shopping cart includes methods for adding and removing Inventory Reservations and for inspecting the contents of the cart.

Finally the Database server tier is composed of a single software layer. This layer is responsible for low level manipulation of the data in the one or more databases. This tier may consist of multiple database servers. Using multiple servers is a major advantage for obvious reasons. The system s database chores can be distributed to many different servers. In a preferred embodiment the database server is Object Design s Objectstore server. Objectstore supports a warm failover mode which allows a backup server to take over automatically if the primary should fail. An Microsoft SQL server is also used in the preferred embodiment to maintain financial records although properly configured another DBMS such as Objectstore or a commercially available accounting package could provide capability suitable for financial record keeping.

The foregoing discussion describes the primary actors interacting with a system according to the present invention. After identifying these actors typical transaction flows through the system are presented.

There are three main parties in the outsourced e commerce relationship excluding the end consumer. These parties include Merchants Hosts and the e commerce outsource provider. This folds into two parties where one party plays the dual role of Host and Merchant.

Merchants are the producers distributors or resellers of the goods to be sold through the outsource provider. The primary responsibilities of a Merchant are to 

A Host is the operator of a website that engages in Internet commerce by incorporating one or more link to the e commerce outsource provider into its web content. The responsibilities of a Host are to 

This following describes the order entry and settlement process from the initial promotion on a Host website all the way through to fulfillment payment processing commission payment and Merchant payment.

The overall transaction process is very straightforward. The following is a list of the steps involved in receiving and processing an order request.

The process flow for a prospect to become a Host and be fully able to endorse promote offer Merchant products is as follows 

The e commerce outsource provider system acts as a clearinghouse for all orders. The system maintains a real time interface with a credit card authorization and processing service and a robust database engine which is able to process transactions record all transaction activities generate reports used for commission payments and auditing of Merchant invoices and track order status. The transaction flow for the outsource provider service bureau is directly related to the structure of the underlying database.

The second part of the e commerce outsource provider service bureau transaction process pertains to reconciliation and settlement with the Merchants.

The final part of the e commerce outsource provider Service Bureau transaction process pertains to the payment of commissions to Hosts.

Each Merchant will be required to fulfill every order received through the e commerce outsource provider within a designated time frame. Merchants must also be able to track certain information regularly and accurately. Merchants will be monitored to ensure timely fulfillment in order to provide the best quality customer service.

The steps of the Merchants transaction flow after they have been established within the system are as follows 

The embodiments described above are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiment disclosed in this specification without departing from the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiment above.

