---

title: Methods and systems for dispatch of documents
abstract: Methods and systems facilitating a first user to receive printed documents via a second user are provided. A method at a digital printer includes registering second users with the printer based on a list of the second users and identity information. The disclosure detects one or more of the second users present in proximity of the printer. When a job request along with a selection of a dispatch mode is received from the first user, the printer detects the second users based on the identity information. The disclosure further includes sending a first message to one or more second computing devices of the second users for requesting to collect documents on behalf of the first user. Upon executing the request, at least one second user collects the documents from the printer. After collection of the documents, the printer can send a second message informing the first user about document collection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09207884&OS=09207884&RS=09207884
owner: XEROX CORPORATION
number: 09207884
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150115
---
The presently disclosed embodiments relate to multi function electronic devices such as a printer and more particularly to systems and methods for facilitating users to receive printed document s via other user s from a digital printer.

A computer network for a group of users is typically installed such that each end user can access the network from a desktop or portable computer from the user s desk or workplace area. However printers for the network are typically installed in central locations and shared among a group of users. A printer can be installed in a particular location and a user may be in a different room a different floor or even a different building to that of the printer. Users can take printout of a document from anywhere if they are connected to the same network as that of the printer. However sometimes the user has to walk a certain amount of distance just to collect a printed document. At times the user may not be able to collect the printed document because of the time constraint or location of the printer.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for facilitating a first user to receive at least one printed document via at least one of a number of second users. The method for digital printer includes registering by a user registration device of the digital printer the second users with the digital printer based on a list of the second users and associated identity information of the second users. The identity information of the second users is provided by the first user. The method also includes detecting by a detection device of the digital printer one or more second users present within a pre defined range of distance from the digital printer when a job request along with a selection of a dispatch mode is received from the first user. The one or more second users are detected based on the identity information stored in a database. The dispatch mode selection informs the digital printer to detect the one or more second users for dispatch of the documents of the first user. The method also includes sending by a transceiving device of the digital printer a first message to one or more second computing devices associated with the detected one or more second users for requesting the one or more second users to collect one or more documents on behalf of the first user from the digital printer. The method further includes executing by a job execution device of the digital printer the received job request. At least one second user collects the one or more documents from the digital printer based on the execution of the job request. The method furthermore includes sending by the transceiving device a second message to the first user. The second message informs the first user that the one or more documents have been collected by the at least one second user.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system for facilitating a first user to receive at least one printed document via at least one of a number of second users. The system at a digital printer includes a user registration device for registering the second users with the digital printer based on a list of the second users and associated identity information of the second users. The identity information is provided by the first user. The system also includes a detection device for detecting one or more of the second users present within a pre defined range of distance from the digital printer when a job request along with a selection of a dispatch mode is received from the first user. The one or more second users are detected based on the identity information stored in a database. The dispatch mode selection informs the digital printer to detect the one or more second users for dispatch of the documents of the first user. The system also includes a transceiving device for receiving one or more job requests from a first computing device associated with the first user. The transceiving device is also configured to send a first message to one or more second computing devices associated with the one or more second user collects the one or more documents from the digital printer based on the execution of the job request. The transceiving device sends a first message to one or more second computing devices associated with the one or more second users for requesting the one or more second users to collect one or more documents of the first user from the digital printer. The system further includes a job execution device for executing the received job request. At least one second user collects the documents from the digital printer based on the execution of the job request. The transceiving device sends a second message to the first user. The second message informs the first user that the documents have been collected by the at least one second user.

Yet another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for facilitating a first user to receive at least one printed document via at least one of a plurality of second users. The method at a Multi Function Device MFD includes registering by a user registration device of the MFD the plurality of second users with the MFD based on a list of the plurality of second users and associated identity information of the plurality of second users wherein the identity information is provided by the first user. The method also includes detecting by a detection device of the MFD one or more second users of the plurality of second users present within a pre defined range of distance from the MFD when a job request along with a selection of a dispatch mode is received from the first user wherein the one or more second users are detected based on the identity information stored in a database wherein the dispatch mode selection informs the MFD to detect the one or more second users for dispatch of the documents of the first user. The method further includes sending by a transceiving device of the MFD a first message to one or more second computing devices associated with the detected one or more second users for requesting the one or more second users to collect one or more documents on behalf of the first user from the MFD. The method also includes executing by a job execution device of the MFD the received job request wherein at least one second user collects the one or more documents from the MFD based on the execution of the job request. The method furthermore includes sending by the transceiving device a second message to the first user wherein the second message informs the first user that the one or more documents have been collected by the at least one second user.

Other and further aspects and features of the disclosure will be evident from reading the following detailed description of the embodiments which are intended to illustrate not limit the present disclosure.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Exemplary embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosure not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations in the description that follows.

The functional units described in this specification have been labeled as devices. A device may be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as processors digital signal processors central processing units field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices cloud processing systems or the like. The devices may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified device may include executable code and may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure function or other construct. Nevertheless the executables of an identified device need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the device and achieve the stated purpose of the device.

Indeed an executable code of a device could be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different applications and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within the device and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially as electronic signals on a system or network.

Reference throughout this specification to a select embodiment one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. Thus appearances of the phrases a select embodiment in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the disclosed subject matter can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure definitions of one or more terms that will be used in the document are provided below.

As used herein a Multi Function Device MFD as used herein includes a single device that offers a number of traditionally separate functionalities such as printing copying scanning and faxing. The functionalities mainly include digital printing where printed sheets or documents are output in response to electronic signals the signal may or may not include the image data itself .

Further a mobile device refers to any device that has a wireless connection with a network or components related to the network. The mobile device can also be a landline telephone as long as it can communicate with the MFD remotely. The present disclosure includes mobile consumers using mobile devices such as cell phones Smartphones PDAs tablet computers and so on.

Moreover an address is any identifying information that allows a device to be accessed on a network such as an IP address or URL the URL including both long form including full protocol information such as http or short form beginning with www or only a website name such as foobar.com . An access code is an identifier capable of designating a specific device such as an MFD on a computer network or local computer system.

A Media Access Control MAC address is a unique identifier that may be assigned to network devices network interfaces etc. for communication in the network. The MAC address is used as a network address for most of IEEE 802 network technologies.

A Radio Frequency Identification tag or an RFID tag is a unique identifier that can be assigned to objects that need to be identified. RFID uses electromagnetic fields to wirelessly transfer data for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking the RFID tags attached to objects.

A telephone number is an identifier capable of identifying a device or location on a telephone network of any type including traditional voice networks packet oriented switching etc.

As used herein a Graphical User Interface GUI can include an interface on the device enabling a user to interact with the device or MFD. The GUI may include one or more graphical format objects.

The device or system for facilitating a first user to receive at least one printed document via at least one of a plurality of second users may be a software hardware firmware or combination of these. The device or the system is further intended to include or otherwise cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. for the disclosed purposes. For example exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the disclosed processes. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations disclosed below.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments the disclosed computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages.

Some of the disclosed embodiments include or otherwise involve data transfer over a network such as communicating various inputs or files over the network. The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. The network may include multiple networks or sub networks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice data communications. In one implementation the network includes a cellular telephone network configured to enable exchange of text or SMS messages.

Examples of a network include but are not limited to a personal area network PAN a storage area network SAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual private network VPN an enterprise private network EPN Internet a global area network GAN and so forth.

The present disclosure provides methods and systems facilitating a user such as a first user to get his her printed documents from a Multi Function Device MFD such as a digital printer to his her desk instead of going to and collecting them from the digital printer. The first user can define or register a number of second users at the MFD by providing the identity information of the second users or the associated second computing devices. The user can provide the ID information such as name of the second user Media Access Control MAC address or ID of the computing device Radio Frequency Identification RFID Bluetooth identity etc. at the MFD manually beforehand. The first user may register the second users at the time of machine configuration or at a later time. The first user may require registering the list of second users with the MFD before giving a job request at the MFD. When the MFD receives a job request along with a dispatch mode selection from a first computing device of the first user. The digital printer device may execute the job request and the output of the execution of the job request may be one or more documents. Further the MFD may detect one or more second users who are within a pre defined range of distance from the MFD. If there are any registered second users detected within a pre defined range of distance from the MUG then the MFD sends a message to the detected second user asking him her to collect the documents generated as the job request executed on the MFD. In some embodiments the job request may be executed when one of the detected second users presses or selects a Yes option on the MFD. The second user then may collect the documents and hand them over to the first user. The MFD can inform the first user by sending another message that the second user has collected the documents.

The first user can register the second users A N and or their associated second computing devices A N with the MFD by configuring one or more devices or modules of the MFD . Further the first computing device may provide identity information of the second users A N and or their associated second computing devices A N for registration. Hereinafter the second users A N may be collectively referred to as second users and second computing devices A N may be collectively referred to as second devices . Examples of the identity information may include but are not limited to a name a user identity an RFID tag a MAC ID a Bluetooth ID and so forth.

In some embodiments the first user provides the identity information at the MFD at the time of configuration of the MFD for example when the MFD is first installed on network . In alternative embodiments the first computing device registers the second users with the MFD prior to sending or executing a job request to the MFD . The MFD can store and maintain the identity information.

In an exemplary scenario the MFD can be a printing device and the job request may be a print job request for printing one or more documents or sheets onto a media such as a paper etc. based on one or more electronic signals. The MFD can receive one or more job requests from the first computing device . The first user can submit a job request from the first computing device and desire for one of the second users A N to retrieve or collect the printed documents. The first user may select a dispatch mode and send the dispatch mode selection along with the job request to the MFD . The MFD may receive the dispatch mode selection along with the job request and begin to detect the one or more of the second computing devices A N. The dispatch mode selection can inform the MFD to detect the one or more second users A N and or their associated second computing devices A N for dispatch of the documents of the first user . When the dispatch mode selection is received the MFD may detect the one or more of the second users A N that may be present in a pre defined range of distance from the MFD . In some embodiments the pre defined range of distance could be a structurally defined area an area defined by limitations of wireless radio transmissions of the MFD or an area defined by physical proximity to the MFD . For example a pre defined range of distance could be an area within the same floor of a building of the MFD . In another example the pre defined range of distance could be within an area of 10 meters in proximity to the MFD . The embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any pre defined range of distance or area that can function for the intended embodiments of the MFD . The second users are detected based on the identity information stored in the MFD .

The embodiments are intended to include an apparatus and method for the MFD to detect the user or second users registered with the MFD . Various techniques for detection of the second computing devices can include but are not limited to Wi Fi detection Bluetooth detection and Near Field Communication NFC . In other embodiments the MFD may detect the second computing devices based on an infrared IR sensing an RFI detection a motion detection and so forth.

The MFD may include a network adaptor and or antenna for sensing and detecting second computing devices or first computing device . In some embodiments a detection device of MFD detects and collects identity information of the second computing devices such as MAC addresses. A network device such as a network adaptor has a unique MAC address. If the particular feature i.e. Wi Fi Bluetooth or NFC is activated on the second computing device then the corresponding network adapter for the second computing device can continue broadcasting the MAC address second computing device at regular intervals for detection by MFD . The NFC is a very short range communication for example only for few centimeters hence the second user has to be close in close proximity to the MFD to detect the second computing device of the second users . In contrast Bluetooth and Wi Fi devices may transmit for longer ranges. The antenna used in the MFD may be selected based on the detection range that the MFD should be able to recognize. For example if the MFD needs to recognize only users in a close proximity to the MFD then a Wi Fi receiver may receive only high strength signals. The range of the wireless communication for the MFD can be set by an Equation 1 also known as the Friis transmission equation. Given two antennas one at the MFD and one at the computing device the ratio of power available at the input of the receiving antenna Pr to output power to the transmitting antenna Pt is given by 4 Equation 1 

The variable R is the range of the transmission Gt and Gr are antenna gains with respect to an isotropic radiator is the wavelength Ft is a loss factor that can be chosen appropriately to decide the range of the transmission Pr is the available power at the receive antenna and Pt is the power delivered to the transmit antenna. Gt is the transmit antenna gain and Gr is the receive antenna gain. Pt and Gt belongs to the second computing device or the first computing device and therefore are constant. A desired range of transmission can be achieved by choosing an antenna in the MFD receiver with appropriate receive antenna sensitivity i.e. Pr Gr the loss factor shield to the receiver or receive antenna .

The MAC address second computing devices can be captured or detected by the detection device . The MFD can be configured to match the captured identity information such as the MAC addresses of the detected second computing devices of the second users are matched with stored identity information present at the MFD . If the identity information i.e. the MAC address of the one or more second computing devices matches with one of the stored identity information of the second users second computing devices . The MFD may execute the job request either as soon the job request is received or may wait for selection of one of the options on a display by the second users or the first user . The MFD also includes a display or Graphical User Interface GUI for displaying one or more options to the users first user or the second users . Hereinafter the terms display and GUI are used interchangeably without a change in meanings.

The MFD can send a first message to the second computing devices of the second users based on the matching of the identity information. Hereinafter the terms second computing devices and the second computing devices may be used interchangeably without changing the meaning. The MFD can send a first message to the detected one or more second computing devices of the detected second users for requesting the one or more second users to collect one or more documents on behalf of the first user from the MFD . The job request may be executed by the MFD .

Any one of the one or more second users in proximity to the MFD and can select a Yes option and can retrieve collect the printed documents from the MFD . As soon the one of the second users selects the Yes option a second message is sent to the first user informing him her that the documents have been retrieved by the second user . In some embodiments the second message can be sent to the first user when the second user retrieves the documents from the MFD . Further the second message may include details such as a name user ID etc. of the second user who has retrieved the documents on behalf of the first user . The first message or the second message can include an SMS an MMS an email a voice message an audible message and a combination of these.

As shown the MFD primarily includes a database a user registration device a detection device a transceiving device a job execution device and a display managing device . The MFD in one embodiment is a computer hardware device with at least one processor not shown executing machine readable program instructions of the methods and functions of the embodiments. Such a system may include in whole or in part a software application working alone or in conjunction with one or more computer hardware resources. Such software applications may be executed by at least one processor at the MFD computer hardware or alternatively by multiple processors on different computer hardware platforms or emulated in a virtual environment.

The processor s may include for example microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuits and or any devices and computer memory that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor s are configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions.

Further the MFD may include one or more user interface s for example a GUI . The interface s may include a variety of software interfaces for example application programming interface hardware interfaces for example cable connectors or both. As discussed with reference to the interface s may facilitate receiving a selection of a Yes option a No option and other inputs from the second user or the first user . The interface s may further facilitate reliably delivering the printed documents post execution of the job request on the MFD . Further one or more devices may function in association with the processor s for executing one or more instructions.

The first user can provide identity information to the MFD for registration of the second users . The transceiving device is configured to receive the identity information from the first user entered by typing at the user interface . In some embodiments the detection device is configured to detect the identity information of the second computing devices when the second computing devices are moved within a pre defined range of distance from the MFD . After identification of second computing devices detection device registers the second users and their associated second computing devices . In some embodiments the first user manually enters the identity information of the second computing devices and the identity information of the second users A N at the user interface . In alternative embodiments the second users may be registered by performing registration process or entering details on the network or on the network devices e.g. first computing device without the need to approach or enter data on the MFD . The identity information may be provided by the first user during at least one of the time of configuration of the MFD or at a particular time interval. In an exemplary scenario the first user can define a list of the second users A N whom the first user feels can collect first user s documents on behalf of him her and enter the second users A N identification information into the user registration device . In some embodiments the second user can be a team member business unit member or associate of the first user . The transceiving device can receive the identity information of the second users and or the second computing devices A. The identity information of each of the second computing devices can include a Media Access Control MAC address a Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag Bluetooth Identification and so forth.

The database can store the identity information of the second users second computing devices first computing device and the first user . The database may also store the information about various job requests and about network devices present in the network . The user registration device is configured to register the second users with the MFD based on the identity information and or list of the second users provided by the first user . The first user can send one or more job requests such as a print job to the MFD and can also select the dispatch mode so that the second users can collect the printed documents on behalf of the first user . Post receiving the selection of the dispatch mode along with the job request the detection device can detect the one or more of the second users present within a pre defined range of distance from the MFD . The one or more of the second users are detected based on the identity information stored in the database . The dispatch mode selection informs the MFD to detect the one or more of the second users for dispatch of the documents of the first user . In an exemplary scenario the detection mode may detect the second users that are present with in an area of 5 meters with reference to the MFD .

The job execution device can be configured to execute the job request. For example when the job request is a print job one or more files are printed on a media. The display managing device can display one or more options on user interface of the MFD . The options may include such as but not limited to Yes option No option and so forth. At least one second user of the detected one or more second users can select one of the options for example the Yes option at the MFD and can collect the one or more documents from the MFD . If the second user either selects the No option or does not selects any of the options then the detection device continues searching for the second user until at least a second user selects the Yes option on the user interface .

Further the detection device may detect and collect the identity information of the second users present within a pre defined range of distance from the MFD . The detection device can include an IR sensor an RFID detector or any suitable motion detector for detecting the one or more second users . The detection device is also configured to detect and match the detected identity information with stored identity information present in the database. A message asking the second user to collect the documents of the first user may be displayed by the display managing device on the display or user interface of the MFD when the detection device detects one of the second users approaching near the MFD . Further the transceiving device then can send a first message to those second users whose identity information matches with the stored identity information for requesting them to collect the documents of the first user from the MFD .

In some embodiments when the detection device fails to detect the one or more second users then transceiving device can send a message to retrieve documents of user to other user s coming near or within a pre defined area to of the MFD . For example the first message can be Hi ABC documents are present at the printer s output tray can you hand them over to the first user . In some embodiments a yes and a no option are provided in the first message. Further the other user s may include user s that are not registered for collecting the documents of the first user from the MFD but may be registered with the MFD for collecting documents of third user s . In some embodiments when the detection device detects some of the second user present within a pre defined range of distance from the MFD then a voice message may be played at the MFD asking the detected user to collect the documents of the first user . The MFD may include one or more speakers for playing the voice message.

The second computing devices are capable of receiving messages from transceiving device . Further the second computing devices are configured to be paired with the MFD . The second computing device can identify itself as the recipient with the identity information such as the MAC address of the device. The transceiving device can include a cellular telephone device cellular modem device Wi Fi device or any suitable telecommunication device configured to receive and send one or more messages to the detected second computing devices first computing device etc. In some embodiments the display managing device displays the first message on the user interface of the MFD along with sending the first message to the detected second user or other users .

When the at least one second user collects the documents from the MFD then the transceiving device sends a second message to the first user . The second message may inform the first user that the one or more documents have been collected by at least one of the second users . Additionally in some embodiments the transceiving device can send the identity information of at least one of the second users who has collected the documents. The first message and the second message can include but is not limited to a short messaging service SMS message an electronic mail e mail a multimedia messaging service MMS message a voice message an audible message and combination of these. The second message can be an acknowledgement in form of an email or an SMS for the first user .

Further in some embodiments the documents may include a cover page including the name or identity information of the first user so that it becomes easy for the second user who collects the documents to identify the documents.

At step the second users are registered with the MFD . In an embodiment the user registration device registers the second users based on the identity information provided by the first user . The first user has to register the second users prior to sending job requests to the MFD . In some embodiments the first user may require to provide MAC addresses of the second computing devices network adapters. This can be done either manually by bringing the second computing devices near the MFD or by typing the MAC address or the identity information in the interface . The database may store the identity information of the second users and may form a directory under the name of the first user to store identity information of the second users .

At step a job request such as a print job request along with a selection of a dispatch mode is received at the MFD from the first computing device of the first user . The MFD can display one or more options such as Yes option and a No option on the display of the MFD . In some embodiments the display managing device displays the options on the user interface .

At step one or more of the second users who are within a pre defined range of distance from the MFD are detected. In some embodiments the detection device detects the presence of the one or more second users . Further the detection device may detect the device based on infrared IR sensing RFI detection motion detection and so forth. The embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any one of multiple techniques for the MFD to detect the user or the second users registered with the MFD . For example techniques can include detection via Wi Fi detection Bluetooth detection and through Near Field Communication NFC of the second computing devices . The detection device may use the methods described above for detecting the second users that are in proximity to the MFD .

The MAC address can be captured or detected by the detection device . Then at step captured identity information such as the MAC addresses of the detected second users are matched with stored identity information present in the database . If the identity information i.e. the MAC address of the one or more second computing devices matches with one of the stored identity information of the second users second computing devices then a first message is sent to the second computing device of the second user .

At step the first message is sent to the one or more second computing devices associated with the detected one or more second users requesting the second users to collect documents of the first user from the MFD . In some embodiments the transceiving device sends the first message to the detected second users . The second computing devices are capable of receiving messages from the MFD . Further the second computing devices are configured to be paired with the MFD . The second computing device can identify itself as the recipient with the identity information such as the MAC address sent along and receives the message. The transceiving device can include a GSM device or any suitable telecommunication device configured to receive and send one or more SMS MMS etc. to the detected second computing devices first computing device etc. In some embodiments the display managing device displays the first message on the display of the MFD along with sending the first message to the detected second user or other users .

At step the received job request is executed at the MFD when at least one of the second users is ready or decides to collect the printed or executed documents from the MFD . In exemplary scenario when the print job is executed one or more files are printed on suitable media such as paper to output one or more documents. One of the detected second users may select one of the options such as the Yes option on the user interface to collect the documents of the first user . For example when the second user sees the first message at associated first computing device and is ready for collecting the documents of the first user from the MFD then the second user can go to the MFD and select the Yes option on the display of the MFD . In alternative embodiments when the second user does not collects the documents and or presses the No option on the display and then the detection device continues to search for other second users defined or registered with the MFD or other users.

At step a second message is sent to the first user informing that the documents have been collected by the second user . In some embodiments the transceiving device sends the second message to the first user . Thereafter at step the second user who collected the documents from the MFD can deliver the documents to the first user .

Though the method is disclosed to be implemented on the MFD but a person skilled in the art will understand that the method can be implemented on a digital printer too.

At step a number of second users are registered with a printer based on the associated identity information of the second users and or the second computing devices . In some embodiments the first user provides the identity information of the second users and or the second computing devices for registration. A user registration device of the MFD may register the second users based on the provided identity information. This may be a one time process and the registration may happen before receiving a job request and the dispatch mode selection from the first user . In some embodiments the first user may require to provide MAC addresses of the second computing devices network adapters. This can be done either manually by bringing the second computing devices near the printer or MFD or by typing the MAC address or the identity information in an interface similar to the interface of the MFD . A database may store the identity information of the users and may form a directory under the name of the first user to store identity information of the second users .

Then at step a job request is received at the printer from a first computing device of the first user . The job request may be received by a transceiving device of the printer. Further at step a job execution device of the MFD may check whether a dispatch mode selection is received along with the job request by the transceiving device . When the dispatch mode selection is not received then the job execution device executes the job request and output of one or more documents may be generated at step . Thereafter the first user collects the documents from the MFD at step .

When the dispatch selection mode is received then at step the job request is executed. Further at step the identity information of one or more second computing devices of the registered second users that are present within a pre defined range of distance e.g. within 10 meters from the MFD is collected. In some embodiments detection device of the MFD detects and collects the identity information like MAC addresses of the second computing devices . The detection may happen using one or more suitable technologies or methods based on NFC Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. The NFC is a very short range communication for example only for few centimeters hence the second user has to be very much close to the MFD for the second computing device to get detected. On the other hand Bluetooth and Wi Fi may work for longer ranges and an antenna used in the printer may be selected based on the range that the printer should be able to recognize. For example if the MFD needs to recognize only users very close to the printer then a Wi Fi receiver may receive only high strength signals. The range of the wireless communication between the second users and the MFD may be set by using the Friis transmission equation described above.

Thereafter the collected information is matched with stored identity information in the database . The detection device matches the identity information with the stored information. Then at step a first message is sent to the second computing devices of the second users based on the matching of the identity information.

At step job execution device determines whether a Yes option is selected at the MFD by a detected second user or not. If the selection of the Yes option is not received then the control goes back to step . Otherwise step is executed. At step a second message is sent to the first user informing the first user that the documents have been collected by one of the second users . In some embodiments the identity information of the second user who has collected documents for the first user may also be sent to the first user .

An aspect of the present disclosure allows the first user to select an option like a dispatch mode while giving a job request for execution to the MFD . The dispatch mode selection is required because the first user may not always want his her documents to be collected by the other users from the MFD .

The method disclosed herein allows the first user to make the executed or printed documents come to the first user instead of the first user going to the printer and collecting the documents.

The MFD may include a GSM device or suitable telecommunication network device for enabling exchange of messages emails etc. between the MFD and the computing devices present in the network.

It will be understood that the devices and the databases referred to in the previous sections are not necessarily utilized together method or system of the embodiments. Rather these devices are merely exemplary of the various devices that may be implemented within a MFD imaging device or printing device and can be implemented in exemplary another devices and other devices as appropriate that can communicate via a network to the exemplary imaging and printing devices.

It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

The above description does not provide specific details of manufacture or design of the various components. Those of skill in the art are familiar with such details and unless departures from those techniques are set out techniques known related art or later developed designs and materials should be employed. Those in the art are capable of choosing suitable manufacturing and design details.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into other systems methods or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may subsequently be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as encompassed by the following claims.

