---

title: Dynamic subscriber identity module
abstract: A method provides dynamically changing a mobile communication device by communicative coupling with a dynamic subscriber identity module (SIM). The method comprises identifying, via a communication transceiver, a mobile communication network that corresponds with one carrier sub-partition of a carrier partition of the mobile communication device. The method polls an identification of an active carrier applet from the dynamic SIM, one carrier applet of a plurality being the active carrier applet. Responsive to a trigger event, one carrier sub-partition changes dynamically to another carrier sub-partition, each corresponding with a different wireless communication identity. The corresponding wireless communication identity is activated based on confirming the identification of the active carrier applet is associated with the corresponding wireless communication identity. The mobile communication device conducts wireless communication coupling based on the activated corresponding wireless communication identity and active carrier applet of the dynamic SIM.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313643&OS=09313643&RS=09313643
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09313643
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150211
---
Mobile communication devices may be used as a business device for example in support of a person s role as an employee of a corporation or as a personal communication device for example in support of a person s role as a private individual. Mobile communication devices are prevalently used both internationally and locally. These devices are supported by wireless communications carriers that provide coverage for calls originating in a local area. When a user of a mobile device subscribing to a plan in a country travels to a different locality the user may desire to use a carrier in the region of travel for a period of time. Alternately the user may enter a roaming agreement that their current carrier has with another carrier internationally.

In an embodiment a method of dynamically changing a mobile communication device by communicative coupling with a dynamic subscriber identity module SIM is disclosed. The method comprises identifying via a communication transceiver of the mobile communication device that is executing at least one processor a mobile communication network that corresponds with at least one of a plurality of carrier sub partitions of a carrier partition in a non transitory memory of the mobile communication device. The method includes polling by the mobile communication device from the dynamic SIM executing at least one logical processor and that is removably engaged with the mobile communication device an identification of an active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM. One of a plurality of carrier applets is the active carrier applet. In response to a trigger event the mobile communication device changes dynamically from one carrier sub partition to another carrier sub partition. At least the one carrier sub partition and the another carrier sub partition each correspond with a different wireless communication identity. The method includes confirming by the mobile communication device based on the dynamic SIM that the identification of the active carrier applet is associated with the corresponding wireless communication identity that is unique to the another carrier sub partition. Based on the confirmation the method further activates the corresponding wireless communication identity of the another carrier sub partition based on the confirmation. The method includes conducting wireless communication coupling with the mobile communication network via the communication transceiver of the mobile device based on the activated corresponding wireless communication identity and the active carrier applet of the dynamic SIM.

In another embodiment a method of dynamically changing a mobile communication device by communicative coupling with a dynamic subscriber identity module SIM is disclosed. The method comprises identifying a mobile communication network via a communication transceiver of the mobile communication device executing at least one processor. The mobile communication network is one of a plurality of mobile communication networks and is associated with a wireless communication identity. The method polls by the mobile communication device from the dynamic SIM that is removably engaged with the mobile communication device an identification of an active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM. The active carrier applet is a first carrier applet stored in one of a plurality of memory partitions of the dynamic SIM. The method further includes switching the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM from the first carrier applet to another carrier applet. The another carrier applet stored in another of the plurality of memory partitions of the dynamic SIM is associated with the identified mobile communication network. Based on switching the active carrier applet to another carrier applet the method further analyzes whether a corresponding carrier sub partition is in a carrier partition of a non transitory memory of the mobile communication device. The corresponding carrier sub partition is associated with the wireless communication identity. The method further includes that responsive to an analysis that the wireless communication identity is not associated with any corresponding carrier sub partition allocating by the mobile communication device one of a plurality of carrier sub partitions in the carrier partition to the wireless communication identity. The method also comprises conducting wireless communication coupling with the mobile communication network via the communication transceiver of the mobile device based on the carrier sub partition allocated to the wireless communication identity and the active carrier applet that is another carrier applet of the dynamic SIM.

In another embodiment a method of dynamically changing a mobile communication device by communicative coupling with a dynamic subscriber identity module SIM is disclosed. The method comprises identifying a mobile communication network via a communication transceiver of the mobile communication device that is executing at least one processor. The mobile communication network is one of a plurality of mobile communication networks and is associated with a wireless communication identity. The method includes establishing by the mobile communication device with the dynamic SIM that is removably engaged with the mobile communication device that an identification of an active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM is associated with the identified mobile communication network. The active carrier applet refers to one of a plurality of carrier applets on the dynamic SIM. The method further comprises changing dynamically on the mobile communication device based at least on the identification of the active carrier applet from one carrier sub partition to another carrier sub partition of the plurality of carrier sub partitions in the carrier partition. The another carrier sub partition corresponds at least with the wireless communication identity associated with the identified mobile communication network. The method further includes accessing by the mobile communication device a predefined set of user communication parameters used at least by the one carrier sub partition prior to dynamically changing to the another carrier sub partition. The method comprises conducting wireless communication coupling with the mobile communication network via the communication transceiver of the mobile device based on the other carrier sub partition the active carrier applet of the dynamic SIM and the accessed predefined set of user communication parameters.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

During vacations or business travel users may desire to connect their mobile communication device to a wireless communication network operated by another wireless carrier that is not native to the user. However users may become frustrated by imposed roaming charges for being a visitor on the other wireless network thus making it difficult for the other wireless carrier to establish a positive relationship with the traveler. Problems may be caused by a mobile communication device that is associated with one single wireless communication identity despite the user desiring to transition smoothly to another wireless carrier and use a different wireless communication identity on the other wireless network while continuing to use the same device. The problems may result from conventional physical universal integrated circuit cards UICC and subscriber identity module SIM cards. For example conventional physical removable UICC and SIM cards typically contain information that is loaded and pre associated with one user subscription to a carrier in order to conform to various industry standards. Additionally the mobile device using a conventional UICC and or SIM card is limited to interactions with the wireless carrier s originally associated with the information on the conventional cards. This means that a traveler would have to remove the conventional SIM card and take the time to find a local retailer to obtain a new conventional card for native service with carriers unassociated with information currently configured on the conventional card.

Said in other words conventional cards are typically statically configured for use with one or two wireless carriers and this configuration requires reflashing the entire memory of the conventional card with new information in order to change information on the conventional card after the user obtains the mobile communication device. Thus installing updating and or provisioning conventional cards typically overwrites disturbs and or temporarily erases the parameters and information related to carriers stored in the memory of the conventional card. Thus when a user desires different wireless communication identities on their mobile device with different wireless carriers different locations different user preferences or different services a conventional SIM card used with a static wireless communication identity may not be satisfactory. Therefore the present disclosure teaches a system and method for dynamically changing a mobile communication device by using a communicatively coupled dynamic subscriber identity module dynamic SIM card.

A dynamic SIM is a physically removable smart card that may be removably engaged with the mobile device while also being able to interact through the use of a carrier applet that is activated on the dynamic SIM with a carrier network which adheres to industry standards for operation. This allows a user to have and access multiple subscriptions for a plurality of wireless carriers through the use carrier applets on the dynamic SIM. More specifically the user may be concurrently subscribed to and concurrently provisioned to receive wireless communication service in different networks or with different service providers. The dynamic SIM allows for switching subscriptions for wireless carriers without user input while also enabling selective installing and or updating for a particular subscription without having to overwrite or disturb the particular memory on the dynamic SIM with information associated with other carriers and subscriptions.

For example a wireless carrier associated with a particular brand may gain partnerships with multiple wireless carriers domestic and or foreign each operating under a different brand to provide user access that allows enrollment and subscriptions with any or all of the wireless carriers and their associated brand irrespective of the geographic location. A user s mobile communication device would retrieve receive install and or activate wireless communication identities that are each allocated and stored into a different partition of memory of the mobile communication device through an application. The user s mobile communication device is connected with a dynamic SIM that has a plurality of carrier applets each stored in a separate memory partition on the dynamic SIM. Each carrier applet has unique identifying information such as at least a unique serial number that corresponds with a particular wireless carrier particular subscription account for a carrier and or particular wireless communication identity on the mobile communication device. The mobile device may refer to a particular carrier applet on the dynamic SIM and retrieve install activate and or switch to the corresponding wireless communication identity for that carrier and wireless subscription for the user. The dynamic SIM has one carrier applet active at any time while also maintaining storage of a plurality of other carrier applets associated with different carriers accepting over the air installation of new carrier applets for new subscriptions with carriers and have provisioning installed for one particular carrier applet without affecting or disturbing the information and content of other carrier applets on the dynamic SIM.

Thus a person may operate their mobile device for personal use with a domestic carrier with the mobile device operating customized and branded according to a corresponding personal wireless communication identity and carrier applet of the dynamic SIM. When the person travels abroad with the dynamic SIM in their mobile device e.g. the user traveling to England for business purposes a trigger event is detected by an application on the mobile device and or dynamic SIM. Trigger events may vary and include user input the change of locations the change of available wireless communication services providers a received signal transmission incident a scheduled event switching of active carrier applets on the dynamic SIM or another triggering event identified on the mobile device. Based on the trigger event the mobile device dynamically changes to an optimal preferred and or improved setting for functioning on a particular network by changing carrier sub partitions which in turn activates a corresponding wireless communication identity e.g. a business identity . Activating the wireless communication identity will correspond with dynamically switching an associated carrier applet that is active and stored on the dynamic SIM. One wireless communication identity is active at any time but if the corresponding carrier applet is not loaded into or loaded but not activated on the dynamic SIM then a carrier application may initiate a process that allows the dynamic SIM to obtain the associated carrier applet for the network and load and or dynamically switch the carrier applet on the dynamic SIM without user involvement and without affecting and or disturbing other carrier applets on the dynamic SIM.

Thus the user experiences a smooth transition in using a different carrier network with another wireless communication identity. This also allows the British carrier to brand customize and optimize the operational efficiency of the user s mobile device when using the British carrier s network through specific run time parameters. In addition to the user avoiding roaming fees with the British carrier due to the mobile device using the carrier applet on the dynamic SIM that is associated with the British carrier the user s personal wireless communication identity and associated carrier applet remains stored and unaffected. The mobile communication device changes to accommodate user data associated with the wireless communication identity while the mobile device is interacting with the British carrier s network such as configuring the mobile device according to user preferences service enrollment application enablement customization parameters branding information and or a contact list . Corresponding applications on the mobile device may then operate with updated user data as well based on use in the particular carrier s network. Furthermore if the user decides to buy a new mobile communication device while traveling abroad from one of the partnered carriers the user can simply insert the dynamic SIM from their old mobile device into the new mobile device and the new mobile device will identify this and obtain the wireless communication identities associated with that user. Thus the robust and dynamic changing of the mobile device enables a user to subscribe to multiple carriers and choose to receive the appropriate experience both domestically and abroad.

Turning now to and a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a plurality of mobile communication devices . The mobile communication device may comprise a radio frequency communication transceiver occasionally referred to herein as a communication transceiver a user interface at least one processor and a non transitory memory . The memory may comprise a system partition a user partition and a carrier partition . The carrier partition may include a plurality of carrier sub partitions such as carrier sub partition A carrier sub partition B and continuing through a designated carrier sub partition N . Additionally the memory may comprise a holding partition that stores and or transfers information that may be commonly shared between any of the carrier sub partitions and or the system partition or user partition . The memory may comprise device applications and at least one trusted security zone that may be apportioned into a plurality of partitions. In some embodiments a specific partition of memory may be a trusted security zone and may comprise a plurality of sub partitions that may each be separate and distinct trusted security zones. It is understood that a memory partition and or sub partition that is a trusted security zone may occasionally be referred to as a trusted secure partition. A further discussion of trusted security zones is provided below.

The mobile communication device is configured to use the communication transceiver to establish a wireless communication link with a base transceiver station BTS and the BTS provides communications connectivity of the mobile communication device to at least one network such as any of Network A and or Network B . A BTS is a network access node that that should not be limited to a particular communication technology and thus reference to a BTS includes a NodeB and or eNodeB along with their associated controllers. A plurality of servers and or systems may also have access and communicative coupling to one of the networks such as and or . It is understood that the networks and may comprise any combination of private and public networks. Additionally while each of the networks are illustrated as separate clouds in it is understood that different networks may share some network nodes and or infrastructure. Likewise while the BTS is illustrated as one device it is understood that considered as an element or package of functionality the BTS may be embodied as a first BTS functionality associated with the network A and a second BTS functionality associated with the network B .

As illustrated in networks and represent separate carrier networks that are associated with the carrier sub partition A and carrier sub partition B respectively. It is understood that there may be multiple networks that may connect to a carrier sub partition and a corresponding wireless communication identity having the appropriate network configuration to access the corresponding network. Additionally it is understood that in some embodiments a plurality of communication service providers carriers may be associated with a particular network infrastructure that is owned and or operated by one communication service provider. For instance Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNO are organizations that provide mobile communication services but may not have their own licensed frequency allocation of radio spectrum or the physical infrastructure required to provide wireless telephone services. Mobile virtual network operators may contract to distribute wireless services provided by telecommunications service providers that have licensed frequency and physical infrastructure. Mobile virtual network operators function as distributors of wireless services and may set their own pricing structures. For example in a first communication service provider may have built and or maintained network A while a second communication service provider may lease a part of network A for providing communication services for the second provider and thus designate this leased portion of network A as network B . Accordingly in this example the second communication service provider may be considered a MVNO for network B by leasing and or using a portion of network A that is associated with the first communication service provider.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices and any number of base transceiver stations e.g. . The collectivity of BTSs may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these BTSs may provide a radio communication link to the mobile communication devices to provide access to a network such as any of network A and or network B . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the BTSs servers and data stores that may implement functionality of home location registers HLRs visitor location registers VLRs base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and or other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile communication devices .

The communication transceiver may communicate with the BTS using any of a variety of wireless communication protocols including but not limited to a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a world wide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another wireless communication protocol. The mobile communication device may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a wireless enabled computer a headset computer a wearable computer or other mobile communication device. In an embodiment the mobile communication device may have other components not shown such as a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a wireless local area network WLAN radio transceiver or other components. It is understood that the mobile communication device may considered a specialized machine that is configured to interact with a dynamic SIM .

The mobile communication device further comprises a dynamic subscriber identity module SIM that is a physical medium and may be removeably engaged with the mobile communication device such as via a reader interface . However it is understood that alternate embodiments of dynamic SIM may include a physical medium that is embedded into the mobile communication device at the time of manufacture such that it is not designed for removal by a user or technician. In an embodiment illustrated in the dynamic SIM comprises a communication runtime framework with modules and engines linked to application program interfaces that interact with a dynamic SIM operating system that collectively comprise a dynamic SIM runtime environment. The dynamic SIM also comprises a processor and memory . It is understood that execution of processor may configure the dynamic SIM according to information and instructions from any of applets and or a particular carrier applet that is the active carrier applet. The memory is a non transitory memory and although illustrated as a single memory in some embodiments memory may comprise individual memory partitions each corresponding to particular applications on the dynamic SIM. The memory may comprise firmware that stores the dynamic SIM operating system and a plurality of applications such as applets steering applet and carrier applets . It is understood that applets may include information and instructions that interact between communication runtime framework and device applications application program interfaces of the mobile communication device . It is also understood that an applet may comprise a JAVA based application that is stored in memory and configured for execution by processor on the dynamic SIM . In an embodiment the communication runtime framework may couple with the active carrier engine for determination of which carrier applet e.g. is active on the dynamic SIM .

The dynamic SIM memory includes an identifier from the manufacturer of the dynamic SIM card such as a serial number that is exclusive to the dynamic SIM . Memory may be segmented and comprise a plurality of memory partitions such as dynamic subscriber identity S.I. partition A dynamic subscriber identity S.I. partition B partition C of the dynamic SIM . Memory partitions of the dynamic SIM may be occasionally referred to herein as dynamic subscriber identity S.I. partitions. Each of the memory partitions through an npartition N comprises a unique carrier applet e.g. carrier applet A carrier applet B through an ncarrier applet N respectively with each carrier applet being associated with a corresponding communication service provider carrier and their network. For example network A and carrier A provisioning system sometimes referred to herein as CAPS may be associated with carrier A and thus correspond with the memory partition A and carrier applet A with carrier applet B and memory partition B corresponding accordingly with network B and carrier B provisioning system sometimes referred to herein as GBPS . Provisioning system e.g. may be comprise at least one remote server coupled to a network e.g. .

Each of the carrier applets may comprise provisioning attributes a unique identifier and or specific communication network credentials corresponding and assigned to each individual carrier. The unique identifier of each of the respective carrier applets such as on the dynamic SIM allows for a particular network such as carrier A associated with network A to identify valid subscriptions for communicative coupling of the mobile device with that particular network of a carrier. For example a power cycle and or trigger event may cause the mobile device to read the active carrier applet s unique identifier i.e. the particular carrier applet s unique identifier that is designated as the one active carrier applet . This may be done via the reader interface using an Application Protocol Data Unit ADPU message to from the steering applet and or the active carrier applet e.g. one of . Each unique identifier corresponding to one of the plurality of carrier applets may include any of a mobile subscriber equipment identifier MSEI international mobile state equipment identity IMEI cellular data number CDN and international mobile subscriber identity IMSI and mobile state international subscriber directory number MSISDN . The unique identifier of the carrier applet is communicated to the mobile device based on the particular carrier applet being the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . In turn the carrier application of the mobile device may change to using the wireless communication identity through activation of the associated carrier sub partition by use of steering applet based on the corresponding active carrier applet. Similarly the active carrier applet may be dynamically switched on the dynamic SIM based on the mobile device s use of particular wireless carrier identity through activation in a corresponding carrier sub partition . In some implementations a carrier applet may comprise firmware that when the carrier applet is the active configures the dynamic SIM to report the unique identifier and or use other information from the carrier applet upon request by the carrier application of mobile device .

In an embodiment the dynamic SIM has one of the plurality of carrier applets active with the active carrier applet coexisting with the other carrier applets that each maintain storage of their own unique identifier corresponding to their carrier network and or subscription. That is the dynamic SIM is advantageous because the active carrier applet may be loaded provisioned maintained and function on the dynamic SIM without overwriting other carrier applets and or removing them from the dynamic SIM thereby increasing the functionality and efficiency of operations on mobile device . Additionally the dynamic SIM may also switch which carrier applet is active among the plurality of carrier applets and thus support subscription to multiple different carriers and also may cause dynamic changing of the mobile device thus allowing a user to receive a corresponding experience e.g. via the use of branding information and other customization parameters described herein on the mobile device based on the specific wireless communication identity and carrier sub partition.

The dynamic SIM comprises a steering applet that supports switching among carrier applets to make one of the carrier applets the active carrier applet. In certain embodiments the steering applet may be referred to as a bootstrap applet that is configured to interact with both a JAVA based application on the dynamic SIM and interact with a back end switching mechanism such as steering system . The steering applet may couple with the steering system via wireless connection using the communication transceiver for switching carrier applets. The steering system may include any of a bootstrap server and or subscriber management server which may be communicatively coupled to partnering carriers and their corresponding networks . It is understood that each network may cooperatively share the use of steering system and or alternatively have its own steering system . To switch between carrier applets and thus make one the active carrier applet the dynamic SIM may send and receive ADPU messages via the steering applet and reader interface to from the steering system over the air. An ADPU message may be initiated by any of a carrier application steering system of carrier provisioning systems e.g. . The ADPU messages may include service objects that may be used for reporting information on the dynamic SIM control switching which carrier applet is the active carrier applet and or for provisioning a particular carrier applet in a memory partition e.g. with information e.g. unique identifiers branding information data pertaining to a corresponding wireless communication identity for the mobile device etc. which may be deemed provisioning data. The steering applet may include information about the capability of the dynamic SIM and what carrier applets and thus carriers may be supported by the dynamic SIM . For example the steering applet may identify present and or provide which carrier applets are currently present and stored on the dynamic SIM and or whether the dynamic SIM has the availability to accept a particular carrier applet. In other words the dynamic SIM may have multiple memory partitions e.g. but less than all of them may contain a carrier applet thereby indicating that the dynamic SIM has an available memory partition that may receive and load another carrier applet without affecting overwriting and or reflashing memory of the carrier applets already existing on the dynamic SIM . The dynamic SIM can identify which of the carrier applets is the active carrier applet and the steering system may couple with the steering applet to steer and or switch to a different carrier applet on the dynamic SIM thus making the different carrier applet the active carrier applet.

In some implementations a carrier applet and or corresponding provisioning information for a carrier applet already stored on the dynamic SIM may be delivered to the dynamic SIM e.g. using ADPU messages to write to an existing memory partition of the dynamic SIM or a newly created available memory partition of the dynamic SIM over the air via the communication transceiver . The dynamic SIM may maintain previous storage and provisioning of one carrier applet on the dynamic SIM while receiving loading and or provisioning another carrier applet on the dynamic SIM i.e. the carrier applet that is the active carrier applet . If a carrier applet is loaded on the dynamic SIM but is unprovisioned or out of date the steering system may connect to a specific carrier provisioning server such as carrier A provisioning system when carrier applet A is at issue to receive the appropriate provisioning data that is written to the carrier specific applet such as carrier applet A on the dynamic SIM without affecting or altering other carrier applets maintained on the dynamic SIM. The provisioning data may then be delivered to the corresponding carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . Thus the dynamic SIM may be dynamically changed by adding switching and or removing a specific carrier applet and or its firmware therein that corresponds with the memory partition such as where the carrier applet resides.

The dynamic SIM is advantageous because it can have a carrier applet added switched changed and or removed without replacing overwriting and or affecting other carrier applets presently stored on the dynamic SIM . Although steering system of is illustrated as being coupled directly with BTS it is understood that steering system may connect with steering applet through a variety of networks such as or and in some embodiments may communicate with a specific carrier s provisioning system such as and or . Each delivery mechanism e.g. used for provisioning may be staged as independent and or dependent servers being dependent on carrier A provisioning system . It is also understood that in some embodiments a dynamic SIM may comprise at least one carrier applet prior to identification and or interaction with a communication service provider s network or may receive carrier applets and or provisioning data for the carrier applet specific to a particular carrier based on identification of that carrier s network. In an alternate embodiment memory partitions of the dynamic SIM may be a trusted secure partition i.e. a trusted security zone which may be associated with a corresponding trusted secure partition e.g. if carrier sub partitions are trusted security zones of the mobile communication device .

In an implementation memory comprises device applications a system partition a user partition and a carrier partition that includes carrier sub partitions A through N respectively. Each carrier sub partition may comprise a respective wireless communication identity with its own corresponding network access identifier and own customization. Each respective customization of a carrier sub partition s wireless communication identity may comprise any of branding information e.g. branding ID and or link to branding information device capability application configuration and user experience preferences. It is understood that there may be many more carrier sub partitions than illustrated in with each comprising a unique carrier identity. The limit of the maximum number of partitions such as carrier sub partitions in which to store the carrier identities may be determined by the total portion of memory and or carrier partition allocated for the carrier identities. The portion of memory allocated for the carrier identities may comprise internal memory and file memory and in some embodiments may be a trusted security partition as discussed. Partitions that are associated with different carrier identities may be of different sizes. For example a first carrier sub partition A may be larger in size than the second carrier sub partition B . It is also understood that there may be more than two carrier sub partitions or carrier identities depending on factors such as the size of the memory and or hardware of the mobile communication device .

The carrier partition comprising carrier sub partition A may include the first wireless communication identity that comprises the customization for a certain carrier and may be loaded at the time of fulfillment of the mobile communication device . The first wireless communication identity may bound be to a single brand associated with the carrier such as the carrier associated with network A and the corresponding customization of the mobile device defines the device capabilities associated with that single brand such as whether the mobile device upon activation on the device to that brand has the ability to roam on another network what contacts it can store whether the device can serve as a hotspot for other wireless fidelity WiFi networks etc. A second wireless communication identity of carrier sub partition B may be bound to a brand that is not the same as the brand to which the first identity is bound but have another customization of whose device capabilities application configuration and user experience may comprise a subset or similar configurations as the first customization associated with the first identity. During the activation of the device and or a particular sub partition of the device both identities associated with the corresponding sub partition may be able to communicate with the networks and responsive to the mobile communication device being provisioned in the networks and . For example device may communicate via BTS over network when the first wireless communication identity and the carrier sub partition A are active and may communicate via BTS over network when the second wireless communication identity and carrier sub partition B are active.

Branding is a general marketing term that applies to many products and may be considered to be the process of distinguishing a product or products of a given brand from those of other brands. Thus branding for a particular carrier associated with a wireless communication identity may be accomplished using names terms graphic images design methods aural cues or any other feature that distinguishes. In the context of electronic devices for example mobile communication devices a wireless communication identity may comprise branding information which in turn may comprise a distinctive splash screen that displays when an application is loading a background theme that displays behind application icons a distinctive wall paper a distinctive aural alert that may be sounded when events associated with fundamental functions of the device occur and or other distinctive cues. Branding information may comprise firmware that customizes controls and or switches of a mobile communication device. Branding information may comprise a short code that references a voice mail service. Branding information may comprise preferred universal reference locators URLs that may be provided as pre loaded favorites in a web browser. Branding information may comprise a link to a preferred on line application store. Branding information may also include other media and settings. A particular wireless communication identity may request retrieve and or receive brand information and when the wireless communication identity is activated meaning it is the active wireless communication identity on the mobile device the mobile device may dynamically change to the particular firmware customization and or parameters associated with the branding information and or user preferences.

A wireless communication identity occasionally referred to herein as carrier identities for aspects relating to a specific carrier may be activated on a sub partition by dynamically changing to that corresponding carrier sub partition via a carrier application . Some embodiments may include dynamically changing and or activation based on a trigger event such as but not limited to changes switching on a dynamic subscriber identity module user input via the user interface that selects different brands tied to corresponding wireless communication identities steering by a server and or system of a network predefined scheduling over the air control by a server and or a geographic location of the mobile communication device . For example responsive to receiving user input that switches branding and parameters to a second wireless communication identity of carrier sub partition from the first wireless communication identity of carrier sub partition the carrier application applies the corresponding customization comprising any of brand identifier device capabilities hardware software firmware application configurations and user experience to the mobile communication device . The carrier application may further reference a source e.g. a memory partition of the mobile device and or a remote server to apply at least some user preferences and or branding information that customizes and dynamically applies changes to the device . The mobile communication device may also transmit via the communication transceiver the appropriate identity to use the corresponding network that the second wireless communication identity and sub partition are associated with for conducting wireless communications coupling.

The mobile communication device comprising the carrier partition may undergo a system reset where the carrier sub partitions and the related wireless communication identities remain intact within the non transitory memory with the corresponding customizations in place. The carrier sub partitions are preserved with the wireless communication identities and their customizations that activate the mobile communication device to communicate with a radio access network and or network A and or network B through the communication transceiver . In some embodiments responsive to dynamically changing between the carrier partitions sub partitions customization information of a corresponding wireless communication identity may be updated by an associated communication service provider e.g. carrier provisioning systems . However there may be no need for re provisioning of a wireless communication identity in the network if it is already provisioned as part of the initial load to the mobile device by the manufacturer. The same is true of the switch back to a previously activated carrier sub partition and corresponding identity. The term dynamic changing refers to which software hardware and or firmware are used by a mobile device and or dynamic SIM based on the corresponding wireless communication identity e.g. those stored in carrier sub partitions and or carrier applet e.g. . This means that the mobile device and or dynamic SIM may be dynamically changed through the specific information e.g. customization parameters user data branding information provisioning from a carrier etc. as discussed herein comprised in a wireless communication identity and or carrier applet.

As discussed above embodiments of the present disclosure may implement a trusted security zone. A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the memory memory and or a partition e.g. carrier partition and or memory partition A that is a trusted security zone is more than just a segment of memory. The trusted security zone may also have a dimension of processing. The trusted security zone may provide the secure execution environment for trusted applications where only trusted applications may operate safe from attacks. The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning both hardware and software resources of the mobile communication device into two segments a secure portion segment and a normal portion segment. The secure segment may be implemented by a distinct separate or dedicated physical processor usually the first processor from the processor by which the normal segment may be implemented usually the second processor. Alternatively the secure segment may be implemented by a distinct separate or dedicated virtual processor from the virtual processor by which the normal segment may be implemented. In an embodiment the hardware segmentation of the trusted security zone and the software installation of the trusted security zone may enable a trusted execution environment on the mobile communication device . The trusted execution environment may be included integrated within an application processor on the mobile communication device at the chip manufacturer.

In an alternate embodiment using a trusted security zone the system partition the user partition the carrier sub partitions may be implemented by partitioning both hardware and software resources of the electronic device into two segments a secure portion segment and a normal portion segment. That is in this alternate embodiment carrier sub partitions may comprise a secure portion trusted security zone while the system partition and or user partition may comprise a normal portion segment. The secure segment may be implemented by a distinct separate or dedicated physical processor usually a first processor from the processor by which the normal segment may be implemented usually a second processor. Alternatively the secure segment may be implemented by a distinct separate or dedicated virtual processor from the virtual processor by which the normal segment may be implemented.

In some implementations the trusted security zone may be apportioned into different partitions such as carrier sub partition A carrier sub partition B etc. that in some embodiments store wireless communication identities. In some implementations each trusted security zone partition on the mobile device may be allocated and associated according to a corresponding carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . The partitions may not necessarily be created inside the trusted security zone. In an embodiment at least some partitions that store wireless communication identities may be created within a secure part of the mobile communication device and each partition may vary in memory size. In alternate embodiments a dynamic SIM may be apportioned into partitions e.g. similar to of with each partition being a trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the carrier memory partition may be provided by the operating system of the mobile communication device . For example the operating system may restrict access to a system memory partition such as exclusively responsive to providing a system memory partition password for example a system password known to an original equipment manufacturer of the mobile communication device the operating system may restrict access to the carrier memory partition such as or sub partition therein exclusively responsive to providing a carrier memory partition password for example a carrier password known to a telecommunications service carrier and the operating system may allow access to a user memory partition such as substantially without restriction.

Access to a trusted security zone may be contingent on providing a master trusted security zone key for example access to configure or add trusted security zone partitions. Access to configured trusted security zone partitions may be authorized by presenting an access key for example a sub zone key or a trusted security zone partition key associated with the subject trusted security zone partition. Stated differently a first sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the first trusted security zone partition a second sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the second trusted security zone partition and a third sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the third trusted security zone partition with each of the respective sub zone keys being different from each other. For more details on trusted security zone segments and sub zone keys see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 571 348 filed Aug. 10 2012 entitled Systems and Methods for Provisioning and Using Multiple Trusted Security Zones on an Electronic Device by Stephen J. Bye et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. While the description herein describes implementations based on using a trusted security zone it is understood that the teachings of the present disclosure may also be used in partitions or in portions of memory outside of a trusted security zone. For example an alternative embodiment of carrier partition would store carrier application in a non trusted security zone while carrier sub partitions and would be trusted security zones.

Turning now to and a flow chart in illustrates a method of dynamically changing a mobile communication device e.g. using a communicatively coupled dynamic SIM e.g. . Additionally illustrates a messaging diagram that corresponds with an embodiment of the present disclosure. It is understood that embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented by system disclosed in . At block a mobile communication network such as network B is identified on the mobile communication device that comprises a carrier partition which corresponds and or is associated with the identified mobile network. The mobile communication network may be one of a plurality of mobile networks. Additionally the mobile communication device is communicatively coupled with a dynamic SIM such as that may be pre provisioned with a carrier applet that corresponds and or is associated with the identified mobile network. It is understood that in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be any of communicatively coupled have a connection with and be primarily designated to another mobile network prior to identification of the mobile network by the mobile device. For example mobile device may have an established connection that receives a wireless transmission from network A prior to receiving a separate wireless transmission from network B on mobile device . The separate wireless transmission may be identified by the mobile device such as through an application e.g. that analyzes correlates and or determines the source of transmission and or the associated carrier by for example referring to a list of known networks and associated wireless technologies for attaching coupling the mobile device to a particular network. Receiving and identifying a wireless transmission e.g. may be referred to as a received signal transmission incident which may be a type of trigger event discussed herein. Once a transmission e.g. is identified as being associated with a carrier and network in this case network B the mobile device can determine whether network B has been previously identified and whether an associated wireless communication identity has been previously activated on the mobile device and or a carrier applet is loaded on or previously active on the dynamic SIM .

As an aside it is understood that a mobile communication device e.g. may dynamically identify a particular carrier and or wireless communication network by correlating received wireless transmissions with one or more lists of wireless communication networks that allow for authorization to connect and establish an initial wireless link to the base transceiver. The mobile device may also refer to a rule set for prioritizing among the networks identified in the one or more lists and one or more tables of device rules. In an embodiment the lists and the tables may be compiled and or reformatted to efficiently combine content as a list or table at run time on the mobile communication device for example in the event of a communication transceiver reset power cycle or received instruction. The lists of wireless communication networks that the mobile communication device is authorized to attach to may depend on the wireless communication protocol used by the mobile communication device to establish a wireless link to the BTS . Said in another way the particular lists the number of lists and the names of lists of wireless communication networks may be different for mobile communication devices communicating according to different wireless communication protocols. The lists of wireless communication networks may comprise any of a preferred roaming list PRL a public land mobile network PLMN list an operator controlled PLMN OPLMN list a home PLMN HPLMN file an equivalent home PLMN EHPLMN list a MMSS multi mode system selection System Priority List MSPL MSPL table and a MMSS Location Associated Priority List MLPL table.

The PRL may comprise information e.g. network parameters addresses etc. used in network and or system selection and acquisition. The PRL may organize the information in prioritized order for example defining what systems and or service provider identities to scan and in what order to obtain radio communication access. The PLMN list may comprise a list of public land mobile networks and or other lists such as an EHPLMN list or an OPLMN list. The HPLMN list may comprise a list of networks or communication systems identified by mobile country code MCC . The EHPLMN list may comprise records of networks or communication systems identified by Mobile Country Code MCC . The OPLMN list may comprise records of networks or communication systems identified by Mobile Network Code MNC . The MSPL table may be used with another system selection priority list e.g. PLMN list OPLMN list HPLMN list EHPLMN list and the like . The MLPL table may enable scaling a range of entries of a system selection priority list e.g. PLMN list OPLMN list HPLMN list EHPLMN list and the like .

These lists and or tables may be said to implement define and or describe a coverage map. In an embodiment the MSPL and the MLPL lists or tables may provide geocoding and preference information and may promote mapping between 3GPP and 3GPP2 protocols. The tables of device rules may comprise a band support table and a technology order table. The band support table may identify ranges of radio frequency that the mobile communication device should scan for attaching to a radio access network RAN for example to attach to the BTS and or any of networks . In some implementations multiple lists and tables may be compiled and or reformatted to efficiently combine the content as a list or table at run time on the mobile communication device for example based on a trigger event and or communication transceiver reset.

Turning back to at block the mobile communication device may poll read and or request the dynamic SIM for an identification i.e. the unique identifier such as an IMSI that is active at the time of polling of the carrier applet on the dynamic SIM that is the active carrier applet. The dynamic SIM may include a plurality of carrier applets stored in memory and one carrier applet is activated thereby being the active carrier applet at any one time. This process of obtaining values and or identification of information of the dynamic SIM may be referred to as polling the dynamic SIM and may be accomplished by using the ADPU messages or by another method. Polling may be initiated by the mobile device by a remote server e.g. over the air or by another method. In some implementations polling may occur iteratively according to a predefined schedule and or based on a trigger event. For example the dynamic SIM may respond to the polling by sending a message that indicates which carrier applet if any is the active carrier applet e.g. an ADPU message comprising at least the unique identifier of the active carrier applet . In some embodiments the mobile device that undergoes a power cycle reset and or restart may read the dynamic SIM for the currently active carrier applet and thus its unique identifier and analyze whether it is associated with the wireless communication identity previously active and or the previous mobile network with which the mobile communication device was previously connected.

At block the mobile communication device dynamically changes in response to a trigger event from one carrier sub partition to a different carrier sub partition This dynamic change may deactivate particular software firmware and or hardware according to the previous wireless communication identity and activate the different wireless communication identity associated with the different carrier sub partition. As illustrated in a carrier sub partition which may be a trusted secure partition in the carrier partition has or may be provisioned updated to have a unique wireless communication identity that corresponds with a carrier mobile network and or carrier applet of the dynamic SIM . The wireless communication identity may be activated responsive to the dynamically changing from one sub partition to another and or based on analysis that the mobile device is using the appropriate wireless communication identity of the carrier sub partition.

A trigger event may comprise events that are based on the dynamic SIM user input pre defined scheduling on the mobile device determined location of the mobile communication device and or server based. A trigger event may occur and be identified and recognized by any of the mobile device the dynamic SIM and or a remote server e.g. . The trigger event may be based on received input on the mobile device that directs the mobile device to connect to network B . For example the mobile device may recognize it is in a particular geographic location which may be pre defined on and or pushed to the mobile device and thus triggers subsequent dynamic changes of the mobile device e.g. changing sub partitions and activating wireless communication identities as discussed herein and or the dynamic SIM e.g. switching loading provision activating carrier applets as discussed herein . Continuing with based on the trigger event dynamic changing from one carrier sub partition to a different sub partition may occur that directs the mobile device to use the parameters and information for hardware software and or firmware according to the different carrier sub partition and associated wireless communication identity. This may be advantageous by improving the mobile device s ability to function and use the corresponding network such as by customizing and or tailoring the hardware software and or firmware that is used on the mobile device in communicative coupling with the particular network.

Note that the sequential ordering of steps e.g. trigger event are merely exemplary and it is understood that certain steps e.g. occurrence of trigger event may occur in alternate sequence such as prior to receiving transmission from network B . For example a trigger event may be the mobile device dynamically changing between carrier sub partitions and once identified as a trigger event switching of the active carrier applet to another carrier applet may occur on the dynamic SIM . As illustrated by dashed lines in the mobile device may initiate the dynamic SIM to change the active carrier applet. The dynamic SIM and or mobile device may then initiate a steering applet that connects with steering system which may comprise a server for switching the active carrier applet . The steering applet may request connection via the mobile device to the steering system for switching to a carrier applet on the dynamic SIM e.g. through an ADPU message that corresponds with the identified network B and or associated carrier sub partition that was dynamically switched to on the mobile device . The steering system may determine the capabilities of the dynamic SIM and or analyze whether the dynamic SIM includes i.e. is loaded with and or has stored a particular carrier applet. Although not illustrated in the steering system may interact with a carrier provisioning server e.g. during a process of steering carrier applets and or loading provisioning an associated carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . The steering system then instructs and steers the dynamic SIM via the mobile device to make one carrier applet the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . Subsequent to switching the active carrier applet already stored and or steering the dynamic SIM to a new carrier applet dynamically loaded onto the dynamic SIM polling may occur between the dynamic SIM and the mobile device which receives the identification of the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM .

At block of the mobile device may confirm that the identification of the active carrier applet from the dynamic SIM is associated with the corresponding carrier partition and thus wireless communication identity that is unique to that carrier partition of the mobile device. This may include analyzing the unique identifier associated with the active carrier applet for association with the wireless communication identity of the corresponding carrier partition of the dynamic SIM. At block the wireless communication identity of the carrier sub partition that may be a secure partition is activated based on the confirmation. In some embodiments after confirming that the carrier applet that is active on the dynamic SIM appropriately corresponds with the wireless communication identity and partition on the mobile device the mobile device may ensure that the mobile device has been dynamically changed to reflect the wireless communication identity that is active e.g. the particular customization parameters branding information and identity information and or other preferences of the carrier user input. For example in the mobile device may analyze and confirm that the active carrier applet matches the carrier sub partition that was switched to and comprises the associated wireless carrier identity that is active. The mobile device may then request connection and use of network B .

At block the mobile communication device conducts wireless communication coupling with the identified network via a communication transceiver . Thus the mobile communication device is actively and dynamically able to subscribe to multiple carriers in various geographic locations while also receiving appropriate unique customization parameterization branding and identity when the device is activated to that carrier through the use of an active wireless communication identity and active carrier applet. This may also allow a user to avoid roaming charges and provide an experience on the mobile device that is unique to the carrier with which the mobile device is actively subscribed. As shown in dashed lines in carrier B provisioning system may send provisioning information to the mobile device and or dynamic SIM to apply provisioning parameters for communicatively coupling the mobile device to network B . While mobile device and the dynamic SIM have associated carrier sub partition and carrier applet the dynamic SIM may be able to receive an update e.g. for provisioning information unique identifier etc. from carrier A provisioning system related to the carrier applet on the dynamic SIM associated with carrier A network A without erasing and or overwriting other carrier applets of the dynamic SIM or wireless communication identities on carrier sub partitions of the mobile device . Thus the carrier applet on the dynamic SIM and wireless communication identity on the carrier sub partition may be activated provisioned and updated without requiring subsequent user input.

Turning now to and a flow chart in illustrates a method of dynamically changing a mobile communication device using a communicatively coupled dynamic SIM according to an embodiment. Additionally illustrates a messaging diagram that corresponds with an embodiment of the present disclosure. At block the mobile communication device identifies a mobile communication network that is one of a plurality of mobile communication networks recognizable by the mobile communication device . Identification of a mobile communication network may occur as discussed above in . The mobile communication network is also associated with a wireless communication identity that may be specific to a carrier associated with the identified communication network. For example in some embodiments may include mobile device connected with network A and receiving transmissions from network A . The mobile device may receive a transmission and identify the transmission as being associated with mobile communication network B .

At block the mobile communication device may poll read and or request the identification of the active carrier applet from the communicatively coupled dynamic SIM which may be removeably engaged with mobile device. The active carrier applet is one of a plurality of carrier applets that are capable of being stored on the dynamic SIM . For example the active carrier applet is a first carrier applet that is stored in one of the plurality of memory partitions such as the memory partitions . As illustrated in the mobile device may poll and identify the active carrier applet and thus the identity of its corresponding network and carrier. The mobile device via carrier application may determine that the currently active carrier applet of the dynamic SIM is not associated with the identified network B . To make the dynamic SIM correspond with the identified mobile network B the currently active carrier applet is switched or in some instances loaded from a remote system such as onto the dynamic SIM to another carrier applet that is the carrier applet which is associated with the identified mobile network B .

At block of the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM is switched from the first carrier applet to another carrier applet. The other carrier applet is also stored in one of the plurality of memory partitions of the dynamic SIM with that particular memory partition being associated with the identified mobile communication network. For example as illustrated in the mobile device may instruct the dynamic SIM to switch the active carrier applet. The dynamic SIM may have the steering applet activated and in use when connected with the steering system . The dynamic SIM may connect via the mobile device with the steering system to switch from one carrier applet to another. In an embodiment the steering system may be used during determination of the capabilities of the dynamic SIM and or which carrier applets are currently loaded into partitions of the dynamic SIM. When the dynamic SIM has the appropriate carrier applet loaded in a memory partition e.g. dynamic subscriber identity partition the steering system may steer the dynamic SIM to another carrier applet of the corresponding partition such that the another carrier applet is the active applet. Thus the identified network B would correctly correspond with active carrier applet that is another carrier applet.

As illustrated in dashed lines in the dynamic SIM may when needed be loaded with the corresponding carrier applet into an available memory partition of the dynamic SIM . That is the dynamic SIM may have an empty memory partition available for designation loading and or installation with a carrier applet. Once the dynamic SIM is loaded with the carrier applet that is associated with the identified network e.g. network B it may be switched to and thus become the active carrier applet. It is understood that loading writing to provisioning and or updating a carrier applet of the dynamic SIM may retain i.e. not overwrite or erase in a memory partition storage of other carrier applets and or provisioning therein that maybe present on the dynamic SIM . That is a plurality of carrier applets that each comprise unique identifiers may be maintained in parallel storage on the dynamic SIM . A carrier applet may be stored without provisioning in a memory partition e.g. of the dynamic SIM that is the unprovisioned carrier applet may be identified as being stored on the dynamic SIM despite lacking at least some provisioning parameters associated with a particular carrier. The unprovisioned carrier applet of the dynamic SIM may be initially considered a base applet generic applet that may be dynamically provisioned without overwriting the carrier applet and or other carrier applets or their provisioning therein . In some embodiments unprovisioned carrier applets i.e. base or generic applets may be loaded into memory of the dynamic SIM at the time of manufacture and or prior to engagement with the mobile device . Additionally the loaded carrier applet may also be provisioned via a carrier B provisioning system which may write to the carrier applet that provisions carrier specific credentials to connect to the carrier network which in the illustrated embodiment of would be network B . After the active carrier applet is switched the mobile device may receive a report of the identification of the active carrier applet to ensure that the intended carrier applet is now the active applet on the dynamic SIM .

At block the carrier application on the mobile device may analyze whether a trusted secure partition such as carrier sub partitions that corresponds with the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM is allocated in a carrier partition of the mobile communication device . The analysis is based on switching the active carrier applet and each of the plurality of carrier sub partitions being associated with a respective wireless communication identity that may be provisioned e.g. loaded or updated with particular information and parameters like branding information as previously discussed for a particular carrier. For example in the mobile device uses the identification of the switched carrier applet that is now the active carrier applet and determines which wireless identity on the mobile device is being used i.e. which of the carrier sub partitions is currently active and whether it corresponds and is associated with both the identified network B and active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . In an embodiment the analysis may yield a result that confirms that a carrier partition on the mobile device is present and has been allocated with an associated wireless communication identity and thus may allow the mobile device to dynamically change to and or activate that partition e.g. carrier sub partitions or on the mobile device . It is understood that in some implementations dynamic changing on the mobile device may be triggered by switching carrier applets on the dynamic SIM while other implementations may have activation and or dynamic changing of carrier sub partitions on the mobile device trigger switching of the active carrier applet. Dynamically changing the mobile device by activating one of the partitions e.g. carrier sub partitions or which thus activates the associated wireless communication identity may improve the operation of the mobile device connecting with a corresponding carrier by customizing the mobile device according to the activation of information from the wireless communication identity of the partition on the mobile device which may change and implement the active parameters of hardware firmware and or software used on the mobile device . This may reduce overhead cost reduced active memory reduced storage space reduced battery usage for applications radios and other parameters that are not required for use with the corresponding carrier s network but may be required for alternate carrier that are associated with wireless communication identities of other carrier sub partitions.

At block an analysis on the mobile device may indicate that the wireless communication identity currently active on the carrier sub partition is not associated with the identified network and carrier applet because it corresponds with a different carrier. In some embodiments a wireless communication identity may not yet be active on the mobile device . Additionally the analysis may indicate that the wireless communication identity corresponding with the identified mobile communication network and carrier applet is not associated with any of the partitions e.g. carrier sub partitions or on the mobile device . Thus the carrier application e.g. may allocate one of the plurality partitions in the carrier partition e.g. an unused carrier sub partition to the wireless communication identity that corresponds with the active carrier applet network and carrier. For example in the mobile device may allocate one of the carrier sub partitions of the memory to wireless communication identity that is associated with the network B and active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM that was switched. This may be responsive to determining that the carrier sub partitions on the mobile device did not correspond with the correct wireless communication identity for network B and carrier applet and thus one of the carrier sub partitions may be allocated and or created. In some embodiments allocation and or creation of a carrier sub partition which may be a trusted secure partition may include provisioning and parameterization according to the specifications of any of a user carrier and operator.

As illustrated in shown in dashed lines it may be the first time that the mobile device has interacted with network B . To ensure that the carrier partition of the mobile device has a proper wireless communication identity and carrier sub partition for association with an identified network e.g. network B and the corresponding carrier applet on the dynamic SIM mobile device connects with carrier B provisioning system to obtain receive and or be provided with the corresponding wireless communication identity and or associated information. The carrier B provisioning system may determine the carrier specific program release information PRI applied to the mobile device in order to stage the particular carrier sub partition platform for over the air customization accepted on the mobile device . Next the carrier B provisioning system may initiate over the air provisioning to apply additional provisioning parameters to the wireless communication identity of the carrier sub partition which are exposed to identify the user subscription and device more specifically on the network. It is understood that different carriers that are associated with their particular networks and provisioning systems e.g. and may accomplish over the air customization in a plurality of ways. In one implementation the carrier associated with a network e.g. network B may use OMA DM provisioning for profile management of provisioning parameters which may include Access Point Name APN information Mobile Director Number MDN information and other parameters known. In an embodiment a provisioning system e.g. may use OMA DM to send service objects that customize software and firmware and may be based on the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM .

Continuing with the illustration in the carrier customization payload e.g. a message for provisioning that is associated with a wireless communication identity may be delivered to the mobile device for provisioning the carrier sub partition and application of branding and configuration of the mobile device . It is understood that the content of the delivery to the particular carrier sub partition i.e. the provisioning parameters that are used in the dynamic changing of the mobile device determines the user experience of the device which may include branding hardware software and or firmware configuration and interaction capabilities with the corresponding network as previously discussed. The delivered content which may include the wireless communication identity for the carrier is applied and populated to the carrier sub partition that is allocated on the mobile device for the network B . A connection with network B using the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM and the carrier sub partition may be activated that may finalize dynamic changing of the mobile device for use on network B by implementing the parameters and information associated with the active wireless communication identity.

At block the mobile device conducts wireless communication coupling with the identified mobile communication network based on the partition i.e. the corresponding carrier sub partition allocated to the wireless communication identity and based on the active carrier applet of the dynamic SIM . Thus the coordination of the dynamic SIM with the active carrier applet and corresponding carrier sub partition on the mobile device allows the mobile device to dynamically change according to any of the specific carrier network in use unique identifier of the dynamic SIM and wireless communication identity while also maintaining multiple subscriptions to other carriers on the same mobile device via a corresponding carrier on the dynamic SIM and carrier sub partition associated with the other carrier.

It is understood that a plurality of wireless communication identities may be stored in a carrier partition that may be a trusted security zone where each has a particular sub partition that corresponds with one of the plurality of carrier applets on the dynamic SIM . Wireless communication identities may associated and used for business personal production testing association membership or mobile payment corresponding to use on a particular carrier. For example a personal wireless communication identity associated with personal wireless communication may be activated responsive to dynamically changing to a carrier sub partition of the mobile communication device and or dynamically switching of active carrier applets on a physical dynamic SIM while a business wireless communication identity associated with business wireless communication may be activated responsive to dynamically changing to another partition of the mobile communication device and or dynamically switching to the corresponding carrier applet of the dynamic SIM . Additionally a wireless communication identity may be activated on the carrier sub partition of the mobile communication device subsequent to the mobile device dynamically changing and the mobile device may to point refer and or switch to using that carrier sub partition. Activation of the wireless communication identity and thus its corresponding partition may be based on any of predefined preferences network capabilities received signal strength location and trigger events. A wireless communication identity may further comprise information e.g. branding information provisioning parameters from a carrier which are not available on the dynamic SIM user preferences etc. that may be used to generate operational run time parameters for wireless communication coupling of the mobile device .

In an embodiment the wireless communication identities may comprise addresses of alternative domain name server DNS servers media gateways ports and or routing information. Some implementations may allow common information that differs by at least one parameter value to be shared within a holding partition e.g. of . An alternative embodiment may include referencing information from the active carrier applet in provisioning activation or use of the corresponding wireless communication identity. Additionally wireless communication identities may comprise user data associated with one of the particular mobile communication networks and carriers for example user preferences service enrollment application enablement customization parameters that improves mobile communication device use with the network e.g. that dynamically change firmware software and trigger hardware on a mobile device a contact list and or other user data associated with the wireless communication identity. Transfer of particular aspects e.g. a contact list voicemail data usage data etc. associated with a particular wireless communication identity can be held in a holding partition e.g. and written to another wireless communication identity in another sub partition without either sub partition gaining access to the sensitive contents parameters and information of the particular sub partition that was not released to the holding partition. This may allow sharing of designated information such as designations by a user and or carrier among the wireless communication identities without exposing sensitive information particular to each carrier and carrier sub partition.

In an embodiment a mobile device disclosed herein may be considered a base device that is initially unbranded and thus generic with respect to a particular carrier. This means that the base device is a specialized device comprising at least some elements and or features yet to be fully provisioned or branded with some information and may not necessarily be limited to wireless functionality only with a particular wireless carrier. Thus the base device may operate with a plurality of different wireless communications service providers having different wireless communications technologies.

Turning now to a method is described according to an embodiment. It is understood that embodiments of system disclosed in and may implement embodiments of any of the methods described herein. At block a mobile communication network is identified on a mobile device . The mobile communication network may be one of a plurality of mobile networks with each mobile communication network being associated with an individual wireless communication identity for the mobile device . The mobile device may comprise two or more wireless communication identities that are each allocated into their partition of a memory of the mobile communication device such as carrier sub partitions as previously disclosed herein.

At block the mobile device e.g. via configuration of a processor by the carrier application establishes that an identification of the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM which is communicatively coupled and removably engaged with the mobile device is associated with the identified mobile communication network. The active carrier applet corresponds with one of a plurality of carrier applets that may be simultaneously maintained in memory on the dynamic SIM and may be provisioned without overwriting and or erasing the plurality of carrier applets. Each carrier applet of the dynamic SIM may correspond with at least one wireless communication identity on the mobile device which in turn is associated with a mobile communication network and one partition of the mobile device .

At least part of each wireless communication identity is stored in a particular partition e.g. carrier sub partition in the memory of the mobile communication device . Different wireless communication identities may be allocated stored and installed in different manners. For example the wireless communication identities may be loaded at the original equipment manufacturer OEM of the mobile communication device when the original equipment manufacturer knows where the mobile communication device will be shipped to and or what wireless communication identities may be desired on the mobile device . Alternatively this may be done later on by an application on the mobile device e.g. carrier application and or a remote server at the time of fulfillment or activation of the mobile device.

A wireless communication identity may be allocated and stored on the mobile communication device first such as in carrier sub partition A and then installed and or activated by an application e.g. carrier application on the mobile communication device when the mobile communication device dynamically changes to the corresponding carrier sub partition associated with wireless communication identity from a previous active wireless communication identity i.e. deactivates the wireless communication identity from another carrier sub partition such as carrier sub partition B and activates a new carrier sub partition . Additionally a wireless communication identity may be dynamically received allocated and installed by the application on the mobile communication device when the mobile device changes to activate the particular sub partition associated with the wireless communication identity. Switching which carrier applet is active on the dynamic SIM i.e. making a different carrier applet the active carrier applet without decoupling the dynamic SIM from the mobile device may also trigger a wireless communication identity to be dynamically allocated to a particular partition installed and or activated on the mobile device . It is understood that each carrier applet of the dynamic SIM comprises and references a unique identifier that may be associated with one of the mobile networks.

In some embodiments a triggering event is detected. In an embodiment a triggering event may trigger the change of wireless communication identities and or carrier applets on the dynamic SIM . An application on the mobile device e.g. carrier application may execute an active carrier engine having rules or functions to determine what wireless communication identity is active for wireless communications on the active carrier sub partition. In some implementations the mobile device may provide a user interface on a display that provides controls for a user to select from among the available wireless communication identities on the mobile device to make active. Alternatively a wireless communication identity may be activated by a server associated with the carrier of the identified mobile communication network.

Additionally in an embodiment an application e.g. any of device applications and carrier applications of may monitor operational conditions and or environmental conditions and determine triggering events. The application may activate a wireless communication identity when a triggering event is detected. Triggering events may comprise receiving user inputs triggering based on a schedule or geolocation server based switching carrier applets on the dynamic SIM and or the identification of the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . Triggering events may be based on locations time and schedules radio signal incidents requests and other triggering events. Different wireless communication identities on the mobile device and or carrier applet on the dynamic SIM may be activated by different triggering events. For example one wireless communication identity may be activated by a single triggering event and another wireless communication identity may be activated only by a different triggering event or by a combination of multiple triggering events. The application may provide a graphical user interface on a display that provides user defined mapping selection and or association for use of particular memory sub partitions and corresponding wireless communication identities stored therein. In some embodiments a wireless communication identity memory partition e.g. on the dynamic SIM and or carrier applet may be dynamically changed updated and or activated without reception of user input on mobile device such as through receiving over the air commands.

At block the mobile device is changed dynamically from one carrier sub partition to another. The changing of partitions may be based on a trigger event such as the identification of the active carrier applet on the dynamic SIM . One of the wireless communication identities stored in the partitions of the memory is activated or dynamically installed and activated and may be in response to the triggering event where the mobile device conducts wireless communication via the communication transceiver based on the active communication identity. Thus when the mobile device dynamically changes carrier partitions which may be trusted secure partitions the wireless communication identity associated with the carrier sub partition is activated.

Based on the triggering event and or a corresponding rule to select the optimal or preferred wireless communication identity to activate the selected wireless communication identity may be activated or dynamically installed then activated by the application e.g. carrier application on its corresponding partition of the mobile device . When the installation of a new wireless communication identity is involved a partition in the memory is allocated to store the wireless communication identity and the wireless communication identity is installed into the partition of the mobile device and then activated. The application re determines or re calculates operational run time parameters of the mobile device based on the activated wireless communication identity and store these operational run time parameters in the memory of the mobile device . Dynamic changing on the mobile device may then cause the communication transceiver to reset thus bringing the recalculated operational run time parameters into effect. Dynamic changing of the mobile device and activation of wireless communication identity may deactivate software and or firmware of the one partition i.e. the partition and wireless communication identity previously activated and activates firmware e.g. through associated brand information of the wireless communication identity corresponding to the another trusted secure partition i.e. the wireless identity corresponding to the newly activated partition and thus may improve the mobile device s functionality when coupled with the associated network e.g. as previously discussed through deactivation of unused and or inefficient use of hardware firmware and or software .

At block the mobile device may access a predefined set of user communication parameters that is be associated with the wireless communication identity of the currently active carrier sub partition. In an embodiment the predefined set of user communication parameters may be used by another partition e.g. another carrier sub partition that was active prior to dynamically changing and activating the particular partition and wireless communication identity. User data associated with the selected and or activated wireless communication identity may also be updated and stored based on user input and or via over the air communications. For example the previous corresponding user data may be replaced by the new user data. Corresponding applications may then operate with the updated user data and or user communication parameters.

User communication parameters e.g. user data may comprise any of a predefined history of communication activity on the mobile device whose activity may be specific with at least one of the plurality of mobile communication networks user contact address profile list voicemail recordings voice message data and text messaging data. In some embodiments at least a subset of user communication parameters may be transferable among the plurality of partitions. For example a user may want to dynamically change the mobile communication device from carrier A to carrier B however the user may want continue access to prior communication activity information. An application of the mobile device e.g. the carrier application may transfer at least some user communication parameters to a holding partition e.g. responsive to receiving indication that a different carrier sub partition and thus different wireless carrier identity is being activated. The newly activated partition on the mobile device may then access and receive the transferable user communication parameters user data and then add the transferred user communication parameters to the newly activated wireless communication identity. Thus the mobile device may operate on the identified network of carrier B by using the associated wireless communication identity and carrier applet that are now active while also retaining communication activity information when mobile device was operating on carrier A with associated wireless communication identity and carrier applet that were previously active . In an embodiment this may be accomplished via steering applet operating with communication runtime framework and or carrier application

In some implementations a carrier application may send at least one wireless communication identity corresponding to a specific carrier s wireless communication configurations device rules and or associated user data to a remote server. The carrier application may fetch and or poll a remote server e.g. carrier provisioning systems etc. for a wireless communication identity corresponding wireless communication configurations device rules and or associated user data from the remote server with which those data are stored under predefined circumstances. For example when a mobile device is lost the user may get a new mobile communication device and download the stored data e.g. wireless communication identities transferred user communication parameters etc. from a remote server to the particular sub partitions of the new mobile communication device and also dynamically receive corresponding carrier applets to a replacement dynamic SIM based on the wireless communication identities without requiring user input and or prompting.

At block the mobile device conducts wireless communication coupling with the identified mobile communication network based on and using the corresponding activated trusted secure partition e.g. the activated carrier sub partition the active carrier applet of the dynamic SIM and the accessed predefined set of user communication parameters.

The UE may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands or other triggers both local or remote . These applications may configure at least a processor of the UE to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction and thus can transform the UE into a specialized machine. Additionally the UE may be programmed and or configured over the air or via wired coupling for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer UE . The UE may access portal and or execute a web browser application which enables the touch screen display to show content e.g. remote content of a web page via a communication portal . Data packets e.g. content from the web page may be obtained on the UE via wired and or wireless communications such as by linking to a base transceiver station e.g. associated with any wireless communication technologies such as GSM CDMS LTE Node B enhanced Node B etc. a wireless network access node e.g. a routing device a peer UE or any other wireless communication network or network system of a communication service provider.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the UE in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide network connectivity e.g. internet intranet extranet etc. enabling a UE to gain access to and or receive content via the network e.g. to send and receive e mail over the internet text messages over a wireless network other data packets . The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the UE to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the UE to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations. In an embodiment the UE may comprise a near field communication NFC transceiver. The NFC transceiver may be used to complete payment transactions with point of sale terminals or other communications exchanges. In an embodiment the UE may comprise a radio frequency identify RFID reader and or writer device.

The switches couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide at least one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the UE . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user via a user interface. The touch screen display is not limited to liquid crystal but may include other display mechanisms such as LED OLED wearable display and the like. It is understood that touch screen display may not necessarily be limited to receiving input via touch but may also include gesture recognition via coupling to other components e.g. etc. . The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the UE to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

Additionally after the system is turned on or booted the CPU may execute a computer program or application. For example the CPU may execute software or firmware stored in the ROM or stored in the RAM . In some cases on boot and or when the application is initiated the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from the secondary storage to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU itself and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. In some cases the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from memory accessed via the network connectivity devices or via the I O devices to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. During execution an application may load instructions into the CPU for example load some of the instructions of the application into a cache of the CPU . In some contexts an application that is executed may be said to configure the CPU to do something e.g. to configure the CPU to perform the function or functions promoted by the subject application. When the CPU is configured in this way by the application the CPU becomes a specific purpose computer or a specific purpose machine.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards that promote radio communications using protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX near field communications NFC radio frequency identity RFID and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage flash drive ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers and or CPUs. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise e.g. a service provider as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

