---

title: Systems and methods for supporting social productivity using relevancy scoring
abstract: A system comprises a workspace associated with content objects and users, the workspace enabling actors to perform operations on the objects; a data capture module configured to capture scoring factors associated with operations performed, the scoring factors including a number of times a target user has performed operations on the objects, the target user being possibly interested in receiving a notification about the operations performed; a relevance scoring module configured to evaluate the scoring factors associated with the operations performed to generate a relevance score associated with the target user and associated with the operations performed; and a notification module configured to provide a notification to the target user upon satisfaction of a notification threshold condition, satisfaction of the notification threshold condition based on identification of particular operations performed that satisfy relevance threshold conditions, satisfaction of the relevance threshold conditions based on the relevance score associated with the operations performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607278&OS=09607278&RS=09607278
owner: CLOUDON LTD.
number: 09607278
owner_city: Herzliya
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20150630
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 185 571 filed on Feb. 20 2014 and entitled Systems and Methods for Supporting Social Productivity Using a Dashboard U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 185 592 filed on Feb. 20 2014 and entitled Systems and Methods for Supporting Social Productivity Using Thresholding and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 187 141 filed on Feb. 21 2014 and entitled Systems and Methods for Supporting Social Productivity Using a History Buffer each of which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 834 381 filed Jun. 12 2013 and entitled System and Method for Supporting and Tracking Social Productivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 843 920 filed Jul. 9 2013 and entitled Systems and Methods for Supporting Social Productivity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 881 398 filed Sep. 23 2013 and entitled Systems and Methods for Supporting Social Productivity all of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention s generally relate to server based computing and more particularly relate to providing remote clients with collaborative features such as a workspace that support social productivity.

In a server based computing environment hardware upgrades application deployment technical support and or data storage can be provided by one or more terminal application servers. As such use of server based computing to support multiple clients can reduce application costs and ensure that applications are accessible by some or all of the supported clients. Server based computing also provides enhanced security and eliminates the need for patch through software upgrades to a plurality of different clients. Traditionally server based computing has been implemented by way of remote desktop computing or remote application computing.

With remote desktop computing one or more terminal application servers provide one or more clients with access to a plurality of software applications and manage data transfers to each client through a separate data communication line. Generally users access the terminal server through their end user devices also known as clients or client devices by authenticating into a network with a username and password with an access card based on biometric information or by any other authentication method. Upon establishing a remote desktop computing session each client serves as a remote desktop display capable of displaying applications which are provided by the terminal application server. The remote desktop is created by and handled within the terminal application server based on applications installed on the terminal application server. The clients also allow users to input data through a mouse keyboard or the like such that the users can interact with the application provided by the terminal application server.

Unfortunately traditional remote desktop computing is limited by the inability of the terminal server to provide access to disparate operating systems e.g. a traditional terminal server configured to provide Microsoft Windows operating system is not capable of providing Apple OS X operating system thereby requiring a user of remote desktop computing to interface with different terminal servers for access to different operating systems. Traditional remote desktop computing is also limited by the inability of the terminal server to provide the operating system with embedded access to a third party cloud based storage e.g. those provided by Dropbox Box or Google Docs .

Additionally traditional remote desktop computing is limited in features that enable teams of two or more users to collaboratively work on documents and other files thereby hindering social based productivity with respect to those documents and files. Various forms of communication hardware and software fragmentation often exist among users who work remotely and such fragmentation often hampers the collaborative efforts of those users.

To illustrate where a team of users is working collaboratively on one or more documents associated conversations between users is often fragmented as a result of team users using different means of communication to facilitate such conversations e.g. e mail or chat or team users not including all team users in conversations e.g. an e mail thread relating to the collaboration includes some but not all of the team users . In another example when individual team users utilize different devices software or software services e.g. one team user utilizes Google Docs and another utilizes Microsoft Word during collaboratively efforts such fragmentation can lead to document compatibility or document access issues. In addition the fragmentation of communication software and hardware often results in useful information e.g. metadata generated during collaborative efforts to go un captured or to go unnoticed by other team users.

Various systems and methods described herein relate to server based computing and more particularly providing remote clients with collaborative features that support social productivity. Social productivity can include creating reviewing and sharing documents or other types of data content objects with a team of users working collaboratively on those documents. Various systems and methods can support social productivity by capturing maintaining and or providing a history of comments changes communication and other events with respect to various types of data content objects being collaboratively accessed e.g. worked upon by groups of users. The systems and methods can use the history to provide the group of users with various forms of context regarding changes and other events in relation to a given data content object being collaboratively accessed. Additionally based on the history various systems and methods can create and present an activity stream for the given data content object thereby providing for intelligent presentation of context regarding the given data content object as the given data content object is are being collaboratively accessed e.g. collaboratively edited by a team of users .

According to some embodiments systems and methods can detect an event that occurred with respect to a data content object e.g. by receiving indication of the event occurring as a result of an action e.g. verb performed on the data content object at a request of a first user e.g. actor . Subsequently the systems and methods can capture contextual information relating to the event in a history buffer. Thereafter the systems and methods can provide a reference based on the contextual information where the reference enables a second user to traverse to a location in the data content object relating to the event. Examples of events can include changes implemented to content of the data content object a user commenting regarding the data content object a user reading content of the data content object a user creating the data content object a user saving the data content object a user sharing the data content object with another user and communicating in connection with a data content object. As used herein comments can include text audio or video based comments which can be associated with a data content object. The contextual information can include metadata relating to and possibly generated during the event. For example where the event is a change implemented to the data content object the metadata may relate to the change implemented.

In some embodiments the systems and methods can present the second user with the reference in connection with notifying the second user regarding the event. Additionally in some embodiments the second user can access the reference once presented.

In various embodiments the systems and methods can present at least some of the contextual information in an activity stream describing one or more events relating to the data content object. The systems and methods can receive a request from the second user to traverse the reference to the location in the data content object relating to the event. In response to the request from the second user the systems and methods can instruct an application e.g. application capable of processing a data content object to traverse to the location corresponding to the reference. The application may be a virtualized application instance executing in a virtual computing environment.

As used herein data content object can refer to a file or can refer to an object relating to a user a group of users a tag configured to associate with another data content object or a project. In some embodiments the data content object can be a document file such a word processing file a spreadsheet file a presentation file or a post script document file. Additionally in some embodiments the data content object can be an electronic communication such as an e mail a text based message multimedia message or an instant chat message. In addition in some embodiments the data content object can be a file or other data structure that can include content relating to a profile where the profile is associated with a person e.g. user or a group of people e.g. group of users . In various embodiments a data content object can include content relating to a project and can be configured to facilitate management of a project. Management of a project can include management of data content objects in connection with the project such as collecting or otherwise associating one or more data content objects with a project. Another example of managing a project can include associating one or more users with a project and controlling access to a data content object associated with a project. Further in some embodiments the data content object can be a tag configured to be associated with another data content object. As user herein a tag can be one or more keywords that describe the data content object to which it is associated. Examples of tags can include user defined tags and hash tags which may be compatible with one or more social networking based services e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that data content object can include types of data objects other than those listed or described herein.

As used herein a space is an environment configured to provide access to content of a data content object while providing contextual information relating to the data content object. The environment of a space may be further configured to organize or exchange data content. For some embodiments the configuration of a space can vary based on the type of data content object being augmented. For example each type of data content object can have an associated space e.g. a file space augments file objects accessed therethrough people space augments people objects accessed therethrough group space augments group objects accessed therethrough project space augments project objects accessed therethrough and tag space augments tag objects accessed therethrough . Depending on the embodiment a space may include a graphical user interface GUI that facilitates user interaction with the space. Additionally for some embodiments when a space is focused on e.g. accessing a data content object of a particular type e.g. people object a space e.g. file space associated with a different type if data content object e.g. file type can be used to provide access to content of the data content object while providing contextual information relating to the data content object but as it relates to the different type e.g. from the perspective of the type of data content object to which the space relates .

For example where a file space is being used to access a specific people object the file space may provide contextual information relating to the specific people object but as it relates to file objects. In this example such contextual information provided by the file space may include providing a listing of file objects associated with the specific people object or a listing of changes to file objects performed by the person associated with the specific people object. In another example where a people space is being used to access a specific project object the people space may provide contextual information relating to the specific project object but as it relates to people objects. In this second example the contextual information provided by the people space may include a listing of the people objects associated with the specific project object or a listing of changes to objects associated with the specific project object according to the people objects relating to such changes. Those skilled in the art will appreciate other combination of spaces and data content object types are possible.

For example a file space may capture content and information changes by one or more people on a data content object that is a file. In another example a people space may capture content and information changes with a given user. In another example a project space may capture content and information changes by groups of people on groups of file associated with a data content object that is a project.

As used herein a workspace can refer to a general space e.g. system or user created that can hold spaces relating to data content objects of one or more different types e.g. file space people space group space etc. and that can agnostically augment different types of data content objects accessed through the workspace. Workspaces can be associated with one or more users e.g. through workspace sharing and can be associated such that the users can have varying levels of access to data content objects accessible through the workspace. When accessing a workspace a user can choose to access a data content object associated with the workspace and the workspace may augment such access with contextual information historically gathered in relation to the data content object. A workspace can include a dashboard configured to assist users in productively navigating issues and items of relevance regarding data content objects access through the workspace for example to create present publish or share content in data content objects e.g. documents spreadsheets and presentations .

For various embodiments a user can choose to access one or more data content objects through the perspective of spaces associated with different types of data content objects e.g. file space people space group space project space tag space etc. and can choose to pivot between spaces according to the type of data content object being accessed. Additionally a user can choose to access a collection of different types of data content objects through the perspective of a single workspace and can choose to pivot from a workspace to a specific space by selecting a data content object associated with the space e.g. selecting a data content object having a type associated with the space . The user can also choose to pivot from a specific space to a workspace.

Through the context related features spaces such as workspaces can facilitate collaborative efforts by two or more users with respect to a data content object.

In some embodiments the context also referred to herein as contextual information relating to a data content object can include an event occurring in relation to the data content object such as a temporal oriented location oriented or relationship oriented change for the data content object. For example an event can include an operation relating to accessing content of the data content object or a change that results in content of the data content object. Examples of accessing can include a user reading creating modifying removing inserting and moving content of the data content object. For instance where the data content object is a word processing file accessing content of the data content object can include opening and reading the word processing file and reading a section of the opened word processing file. Other examples of events can include creating a data content object and removing a data content object. Examples of events can also include a user uploading a data content object e.g. from client computing device to a cloud storage service and in connection with a workspace a user downloading a data content object e.g. from a cloud storage service to a client computing device and in connection with a workspace a user sharing a data content object with another user e.g. sharing access to some or all of the content of data content object with another and associating or disassociating a data content object with respect to a tag a project or a workspace.

Where a plurality of events have occurred in relation to a data content object the events can be generally referred to as activity of the data content object which can be provided or visually presented through a space as an activity stream or thread in connection the data content object. For some embodiments such an activity stream or thread can be presented as context by a space e.g. workspace used to access the data content object.

According to some embodiments systems and methods can detect a first event that occurred with respect to a first data content object as a result of an action performed on the data content object at a request of a first user. Subsequently the systems and methods can determine whether an attribute of the first event satisfies a criterion. Thereafter the systems and methods provide a first card relating to the event if the attribute is determined to satisfy the criterion e.g. meet or exceed a threshold condition where the first card is configured to be presented to a second user.

As used herein a card and event card can refer to a unit of summarized information regarding an event in association with a data content object. Depending on the embodiment an event card may be presented according to a bounded window of continuous activity relating to the data content object. The window can be bounded by time date relevance to the percipient user i.e. user perceiving the event card or the type of data content object. The window can be bounded by one or more criteria defined by the second user perceiving the event card.

In some embodiments the systems and methods can present the first card to the second user where the first card can be presented in a dashboard configured to present a second card relating to a second event. The second event may relate to a second data content object. The first card can comprise a secondary action configured to perform an operation with respect to the first card at a request of the second user. Examples of the secondary actions can include entering a comment in association with the first card sharing the first card with another user deferring presentation of the first card and assigning a task associated with the event to another user e.g. delegating .

In various embodiments the systems and methods can determine the criterion based on the second user. The criterion can define a frequency of presentation of cards relating to the event a restriction for presenting cards based on event type or an allowance for presenting cards based on event type. The criterion can be defined by the second user. Additionally the criterion can be utilized to define relevancy of events to the second user.

According to some embodiments systems and methods can associate a data content object with a workspace. Subsequently the systems and methods can detect an event that occurred with respect to the data content object as a result of an action performed on the data content object at a request of a first user associated with the workspace. Thereafter the systems and methods can inform a second user of the event where the second user is associated with the workspace. Depending on the embodiment the systems and methods can involve creating the data content object or creating the workspace.

In some embodiments the systems and methods can share the workspace with the second user at the request of the first user. Additionally in some embodiments the systems and methods can share at least a portion of content in the data content object with another user at the request of the first user.

In various embodiments the systems and methods can delegate at the request of the first user a task to another user in association with at least a portion of content in the data content object. The systems and methods can receive a response to the task from the other user. The systems and methods can to integrate the response into the portion of content. The systems and methods can to inform the first user of the response.

In some embodiments the systems and methods can provide a client computing device with access to an application executing remotely from the client computing device hereafter also referred to as application access and providing application access in conjunction with supporting social productivity features as described herein. As described herein social productivity features can include providing context for content hereafter also referred to as content context of data content objects being accessed by the application executing remotely from the client computing device. The application may be remotely executed and provided such that the application accessed by a user has native access to a cloud based storage and data content objects e.g. files residing on the cloud based storage. As used herein a data content object processing application can refer to any application capable of processing or otherwise accessing a data content object.

According to some embodiments systems and methods can determine events performed on a first data content object by a first user using a data content object processing application. The determination may be based on information provided by the data content object processing application. The systems and methods can store event indications identifying the events in a history buffer. Subsequently the systems and methods can select one or more particular event indications from the history buffer where the one or more particular event indications identify one or more particular events. Additionally the systems and methods can determine one or more other users authorized and designated to receive a notification about the one or more particular events. Further the systems and methods can determine whether the one or more particular event indications satisfy a one or more criteria e.g. threshold condition permitting notification. Eventually the systems and methods can generate a data content object event notification to the one or more other users. The data content object event notification generated may identify the one or more particular events performed on the first data content object.

As described herein the history buffer may be dedicated to the first data content object. Additionally the first data content object and a second data content object may belong to a workspace object and the history buffer is dedicated to the workspace object. The first data content object may for example comprises a file or an object relating to a user a group of users a tag configured to associate with another data content object or a project. The events may include for example reading creating modifying removing inserting or moving content of the first data content object creating removing uploading downloading or sharing the first data content object and associating or disassociating the data content object to a workspace or a tag. The event indications may for example include user information date information time information or location information. The data content object event notification may provide a summary of changes performed on the first data content object. The data content object processing application may be a virtualized application instance executing in a virtual computing environment.

In some embodiments the step of determining one or more other users authorized and designated to receive a notification about the one or more particular events may occur only after determining that the one or more particular event indications satisfies the threshold condition permitting notification. Additionally in some embodiments the step of generating a data content object event notification to the one or more other users may occur only after determining that the one or more particular event indications satisfies the threshold condition permitting notification. Each of the one or more other users may set a respective threshold condition. The threshold condition may be one based on for example a notification frequency event type an amount of detail requested and or the first data content object itself.

According to some embodiments the systems and methods can await receipt of one or more data content object share indications that indicate that one or more data content objects has been shared by a user at a second client device with a user of the first client device. The one or more data content objects may be stored in one or more data stores. In response to receiving a particular data content object share indication that a particular data content object has been shared the systems and methods may generate a particular share notification. The systems and methods can further await receipt of one or more data content object edit indications that identify one or more edits to the particular data content object. In response to receiving a particular data content object edit indication that identifies one or more particular edits to the particular data content object the systems and methods may generate a particular edit notification. The systems and methods can also await receipt of one or more task indications that request the user of the first client device to perform one or more tasks. In response to receiving a particular task indication the systems and methods may generate a particular task notification. Additionally the systems and methods can also await receipt of one or more message indications that include one or more messages from the second user at the second client device. In response to receiving a particular message indication the systems and methods can generate a particular message notification.

Eventually the systems and methods may present a dashboard on the first client device. The dashboard may provide a portal to the particular data content object. The dashboard may for example include a first section for displaying share notifications including the particular share notification a second section different that the first section for displaying edit notifications including the particular edit notification a third section different than the other sections e.g. first and second sections for displaying task notifications including the particular task notification and or a fourth section different than the other sections e.g. first and second sections for displaying message notifications including the particular message notification. The dashboard may also include a count section the count section being for displaying a count of the number of notifications in each section. Depending on the embodiment the dashboard may present the notifications using cards with each card reporting at least one notification. Each dashboard may enable filtering the notifications according to one or more conditions.

In some embodiments the one or more data stores may include cloud storage. Additionally the one or more edits to the particular data content object may be those performed by the user at the second client device. The dashboard may provide a link to the particular data content object.

As stated above various embodiments monitor operations of users actors on one or more data content objects to determine whether the operations are relevant to other users targets and whether the relevant operations meet certain notification threshold conditions for notifying the targets of the relevant operations. In some embodiments the notification system obtains a notification threshold condition for a particular target and monitors the operations of actors on data content objects to determine relevance of each operation to the target and to determine whether one or more relevant operations meet the notification threshold condition. If so the notification system notifies the target.

In some embodiments operations on a data content object may include authoring actions such as reading saving deleting erasing editing creating publishing unpublishing etc. social actions such as liking sending sharing adding removing following unfollowing etc. organizational actions such as tagging deferring reminding searching trashing etc. and or workflow actions such as rejecting declining accepting approving assigning reviewing signing commenting resolving mentioning taking giving ownership etc. Other operations on a data object are also possible.

The notification system evaluates scoring factors associated with each operation to generate a relevance score for a target. In some embodiments the notification system may evaluate scoring factors for only certain types of operations such as authoring operations involved in collaborative editing of a data content object e.g. deleting modifying adding etc. and not organizational social and or workflow operations as described above. Scoring factors may include the identity of the data content object being interacted with the actor performing the operation the subsection subpart of the data content object being interacted with the number of operations with the data content object the relationship between the actor and the target the particular workflow to which the data content object belongs the organization enterprise to which the data content object belongs etc. Example subsections subparts of a parent data content object may include a page slide sheet paragraph line word table row column cell header footer equation formula chart shape list table of contents link synthetic content objects and or the like. The term data content object herein is used to include subsections subparts of an parent data content object. In other words a data content object may be a table within a document a slide within a presentation a paragraph within a document an image within a video etc.

Various relevance scoring techniques may be used to determine whether one or more operations merit generating a notification for a target.

In some embodiments a system comprises a workspace associated with one or more data content objects and at least two users the one or more data content objects being stored in data storage the workspace enabling one or more acting users of the at least two users to use one or more data editors to perform one or more operations on the one or more data content objects a data capture module configured to capture scoring factors associated with one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users on the one or more data content objects at least one of the scoring factors including a number of times a target user has previously performed operations on the one or more data content objects the target user being possibly interested in receiving a notification about the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users a relevance scoring module configured to evaluate the scoring factors associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users to generate a relevance score associated with the target user and associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users and a notification module configured to provide a notification to the target user upon satisfaction of a notification threshold condition satisfaction of the notification threshold condition being based on identification of one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy one or more relevance threshold conditions satisfaction of the one or more relevance threshold conditions being based on the relevance score associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users the notification being about the one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy the one or more relevance threshold conditions.

The data storage may include cloud storage. The text editors may include a cloud based text editor. At least one of the one or more data content objects may be a subsection of a whole file. The subsection may be a table. The scoring factors may further include at least one of an amount of time that passed since the target user performed operations on the one or more data content objects a number of persons that share the one or more data content objects information associated with an interest of the target user a level of contact between the target user and the one or more acting users an importance value of the one or more acting users or type information associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users. The relevance scoring engine may apply weights to each of the scoring factors. The system may further comprise a machine learning engine that monitors user feedback to modify the weights. The system may further comprise a machine learning engine that monitors user feedback to modify the scoring factors upon which the relevance score is generated. The data capture module may cooperate with the data storage to capture the scoring factors with the text editors to capture the scoring factors or with a history buffer that stores the scoring factors or information upon which the scoring factors may be generated.

In some embodiments a method comprises enabling one or more acting users associated with a workspace to use one or more data editors to perform one or more operations on one or more data content objects associated with the workspace the one or more data content objects being stored in data storage capturing scoring factors associated with one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users on the one or more data content objects at least one of the scoring factors including a number of times a target user has previously performed operations on the one or more data content objects the target user being possibly interested in receiving a notification about the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users evaluating the scoring factors associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users to generate a relevance score associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users determining whether one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy one or more relevance threshold conditions satisfaction of the one or more relevance threshold conditions being based on the relevance score associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users determining whether a notification threshold condition has been satisfied based on the identification of one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy one or more relevance threshold conditions and providing a notification to the target user upon satisfaction of the notification threshold condition the notification being about the one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy the one or more relevance threshold conditions.

At least one of the one or more data content objects may be a subsection of a whole file. The scoring factors may further include at least one of an amount of time that passed since the target user performed operations on the one or more data content objects a number of persons that share the one or more data content objects information associated with an interest of the target user a level of contact between the target user and the one or more acting users an importance value of the one or more acting users or type information associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users. The step of evaluating the scoring factors associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users to generate the relevance score may include applying weights to each of capturing scoring factors associated with one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users on the one or more data content objects may include cooperating with the data storage to capture the scoring factors. The step of capturing scoring factors associated with one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users on the one or more data content objects may include cooperating with the text editors to capture the scoring factors. The step of capturing scoring factors associated with one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users on the one or more data content objects may include cooperating with a history buffer that stores the scoring factors or information upon which the scoring factors may be generated.

In some embodiments a computer readable medium stores program code for causing a computer to perform the steps of enabling one or more acting users associated with a workspace to use one or more data editors to perform one or more operations on one or more data content objects associated with the workspace the one or more data content objects being stored in data storage capturing scoring factors associated with one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users on the one or more data content objects at least one of the scoring factors including a number of times a target user has previously performed operations on the one or more data content objects the target user being possibly interested in receiving a notification about the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users evaluating the scoring factors associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users to generate a relevance score associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users determining whether one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy one or more relevance threshold conditions satisfaction of the one or more relevance threshold conditions being based on the relevance score associated with the one or more operations performed by the one or more acting users determining whether a notification threshold condition has been satisfied based on the identification of one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy one or more relevance threshold conditions and providing a notification to the target user upon satisfaction of the notification threshold condition the notification being about the one or more particular operations performed by the one or more acting users that satisfy the one or more relevance threshold conditions.

According to certain embodiments a computer program product comprising computer instruction codes configured to cause the computer system to perform the operations described herein. Additionally particular embodiments may be implemented using a digital device as described herein such a computer system.

Other features and aspects of various embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features of such embodiments.

Various systems and methods described herein relate to server based computing and more particularly providing remote clients with collaborative features that support social productivity. In particular various embodiments provide for systems and methods that can provide social productivity platform that can create or modify documents and other types of data content objects using collaborative efforts possibly where the efforts are received through a social networking service. The systems and methods can for example create review and share documents spreadsheets and presentations from any device using any cloud storage provider. When teams of users are collaboratively working on a document or other file various systems and methods can connect each of the team users to the document or file and maintain a buffer of comments changes or other events. For some embodiments the systems and methods can maintain a separate history buffer for every data content object or a separate history buffer for a type of data content object.

In some embodiments the systems and methods can enable a user to create review edit or otherwise access content of data content objects e.g. documents and capture information regarding changes implemented during individual or group based editing to the content. In doing so various embodiments can capture contextual information that can be provided as a data content object is being accessed. In some embodiments the contextual information can facilitate creation and presentation of an activity stream in connection with a data content object. Contextual information regarding a data content object can include metadata relating to an operation performed on content of the data content object. Operations can include reading writing modifying creating removing inserting or moving content of the data content object creating removing uploading downloading of the data content object sharing the data content object with another and associating or disassociating the data content object with a workspace or another data content object e.g. tag .

For various embodiments the systems and methods can implement a centralized hub for data content object productivity which may facilitate faster workflow and or easier management of viewing and authoring data content object particularly from a mobile digital device. For some embodiments the systems and methods can be implemented as a layer between a client and a content authoring system configured to handle various data content objects. Additionally in some embodiments the systems and methods can be implemented to interact with or be a part of a social networking service.

The systems and methods can be configured to interact with various types of data content object which include files projects people tags or location. As described herein each type of data content object may be associated with a space configured to capture content and information changes with respect to a data content object of the type. For example a file space may capture content and information changes by one or more people on a data content object that is a file. In another example a people space may capture content and information changes with a given user. In another example a project space may capture content and information changes by groups of people on groups of file associated with a data content object that is a project.

As described herein a workspace may be a general space that can hold all other types of spaces e.g. file space people space group space etc. that can be associated with one or more data content objects of one or more types and that can agnostically augment different types of data content objects accessed through the workspace. Workspaces can be associated with one or more users e.g. through workspace sharing and can be associated such that the users can have varying levels of access to data content objects accessible through the workspace. A workspace can include a dashboard configured to assist users in productively navigating issues and items of relevance regarding data content objects access through the workspace for example to create present publish or share content in data content objects e.g. documents spreadsheets and presentations . The relevance may be determined based on various factors including the preferences of the user perceiving the dashboard the percipient user and the history of activity by the user perceiving the dashboard and the like. The relevance and or preferences for the user may be implemented by way of one or more criteria used by the dashboard when displaying event cards to the user.

In accordance with various embodiments the systems and methods described herein provide a client computing device with access to an application executing remotely from the client computing device and provide context for content of data content objects being accessed by the application executing remotely from the client computing device. The content context provided may be separate distinct from or in addition to any context provided by the application executing remotely from the computing device. In this way various embodiments can agnostically provide contextual information regarding the access of data content objects regardless of the method of access data content objects.

According to some embodiments the systems and methods provide a platform between the client computing device and an application server that is executing the application on behalf of the client computing device. In addition to providing the client computing device with access to the application remotely executing on the application server the platform may maintain and provide contextual information regarding the application s access of a data content objects contextual information that otherwise may not be maintained or provided by the application.

Additionally the application may be accessing content of data content objects e.g. one or more files residing on a cloud based storage e.g. provided by a third party cloud based storage service . For some systems and methods the application may be remotely executed and provided such that the application accessed by a user has native access to a cloud based storage and data content objects e.g. files residing on the cloud based storage. In this way various embodiments may provide a user on a client computing device with universal and agnostic access to applications that would otherwise be non operable on the client computing device and permit such applications with universal and or agnostic access to cloud based storage services that are otherwise disconnected from disparate from or incompatible with the accessed applications. Additionally some embodiments may permit an original application natively operating on the client computing device but incompatible with a particular data content object e.g. an e mail application operating on the client computing device attempting to open a spreadsheet file otherwise incompatible with e mail application to upload the data content object to a cloud based storage service and enable a remotely executed application provided in accordance with the embodiments compatible with the data content object and capable of accessing the cloud based storage service to open the data content object on behalf of the original application.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate accessing a file as understood herein can include for example creating deleting viewing e.g. opening or modifying the file and any of content contained therein. Additionally as understood herein those skilled in the art will appreciate that accessing an application can include for instance starting stopping using or otherwise controlling operation of the application and may further include modifying the availability of the application e.g. adding or deleting availability of the application . Any mention of a cloud based service e.g. storage application within this description will be understood to include without limitation services provided by private clouds public clouds and hybrid clouds.

Each of the client the ASP system the database server the file server the cloud based service server and the messaging service server may be implemented using one or more digital devices which may be similar to the digital devices discussed later with respect to . For instance client may be any form of computing device capable of receiving user input e.g. configured for user interaction capable of displaying a client user interface e.g. through which an application can be viewed or controlled and capable of communicating with the ASP system over one or more of the communication connection s . Such computing devices may include a mobile phone a tablet computing device a laptop a desktop computer personal digital assistant a portable gaming unit a wired gaming unit a thin client a set top box a portable multi media player or any other type of network accessible user device known to those of skill in the art. Further one or more of the ASP system the database server the file server the cloud based service server or the messaging service server may comprise of one or more servers which may be operating on or implemented using one or more cloud based services e.g. System as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS or Infrastructure as a Service IaaS .

The client may be configured to communicatively connect with the ASP system and be provided with access to an application and social productivity features through the ASP system . According to some embodiments the ASP system can maintain application sessions gather metadata and other contextual information regarding data content objects accessed through the ASP system and connect storage services e.g. provided by third party cloud based storage providers with application services e.g. provided by application servers .

The application being provided through the ASP system may be executed remotely from the client and or may be executed on or under the control of the ASP system . The ASP system may be executing or controlling the execution of the application on behalf of the client and as such may facilitate access e.g. video audio and data access and user interaction between the executing application and the client .

The ASP system may also be configured to provide the client with features supporting social productivity as the client accesses the application executing on behalf of the client . For example the ASP system may capture contextual information regarding data content object as such data content objects are accessed by the client through the ASP system possibly using the application executing on behalf of the client . The ASP system may provide the client with a workspace or other type space through which the client can access different data content objects while being providing contextual information regarding such objects. The ASP system may provide the client with a dashboard that assists a user at the client in reviewing events associated with data content objects that are accessible to the client through the ASP system e.g. through a space such as a workspace and that are relevant to the user. As described herein a user may navigate from the dashboard to a location in the content of a data content object that relates to an event regarding the data content object e.g. a change in content or someone reading the content .

The ASP system may further execute or control the execution of the application such that the application has native access e.g. in application access to one or more files or other data content objects residing on a cloud based storage external to the client and the ASP system . In various embodiments such a cloud based storage service may be provided by a third party cloud based storage service e.g. Dropbox or Box which is separate and distinct from the ASP system . Execution or execution control of the application may further provide the client with the application having native access to databases e.g. served by the database server or to file servers e.g. the file server that are separate and distinct from the ASP system .

By executing or controlling execution of the application such that it has access to data separate and distinct from the execution of the application the ASP system may provide the client with remote access to the application that might otherwise not be operable on the client and that has access to data storage provided by third party services. In some embodiments this may also allow an operator of the ASP system to provide user with applications as a remotely accessible service e.g. for rent without the need for maintaining long term storage data on the ASP system e.g. user data opened in the applications are provided by a storage system and that is distinct from the ASP system the storage system may be maintained by the user or a third party on behalf of the user .

This may be useful for example when the application is incompatible with the operating system running on the client when the client lacks the requisite resources to locally execute the application e.g. lack of memory space or processor performance or when the client lacks sufficient resources to properly execute the application locally.

In some instances the cloud based storage services accessed by various embodiments may provide additional cloud based services in conjunction with the storage services. These additional cloud based services may include such web application services relating to data content objects such as word processing documents spreadsheet documents presentation documents and the like. An example of such a cloud based service is Google Docs. Various embodiments may utilize web application services in conjunction with or in place of virtualized applications when accessing various data content objects e.g. files through the ASP system . For example where a spreadsheet file being accessed through the ASP system is stored on a Dropbox the ASP system may access the spreadsheet file from Dropbox and use a Google Docs web application to open the spreadsheet file for viewing and or modification purposes.

With various social productivity features provided by the ASP system such as spaces e.g. workspaces the ASP system can permit one or more users to uniformly and collaboratively access to data content objects which may be stored on one or more of the database server the file server and the cloud based service server providing a cloud based storage service. For example one or more data content objects can be accessed by the client through the ASP system from storage external to the client and the ASP system . As the one or more data content objects are accessed the ASP system can capture and collect contextual information regarding the access of the data content object. The contextual information captured for a data content object can include information provided by the application that is executing on behalf of the client that is executing and remotely to the client and that is accessing the data content object. The contextual information may include information regarding actions performed at the request of a user at the client by the ASP system and outside of the application executing on behalf of the client . The contextual information can relate to operations such as uploading through the ASP system data content objects to storage external to the ASP system e.g. cloud based storage service such as Dropbox or downloading content through the ASP system from storage external to the ASP system . The contextual information can also relate to operations such as a user at the client requesting the ASP system share some or all of a data content object or share a space with another user.

As described herein as data content objects are accessed by the client through the ASP system the ASP system can provide the client with at least some contextual information relating to the data content objects being accessed. In accordance with embodiments described herein the ASP system may present the contextual information to the user at the client as the data content object is being accessed e.g. data content object is being viewed via a space provided by the ASP system to the client and or via a remotely executing application being accessed by the client through the ASP system .

In some embodiments the ASP system can inform the user at the client regarding events relating to data content objects being accessed through the ASP system and may do so based on the relevancy of the event to the user. Events relating to a data content object may be relevant to the user based on for example the user s preferences e.g. based user defined criterion the user s previous access of the data content objects and or the user s association with the data content object e.g. user associated with data content object based through their common association with a specific workspace .

As the ASP system detects an event associated with a data content object being accessed through the ASP system the ASP system can present one or more users with a reference to a location in the data content object that relates the event. As described herein a reference once presented to a user at the client can be traversed by the user to the location referenced. Such traversal can result in the ASP system providing the client with access to an application that is executing on behalf of the client and that is accessing the content of the data content object at the location referenced.

For some embodiments the client module may be configured to facilitate communication between the client and the ASP system provide a user at the client with a client user interface configured to facilitate user interaction with the ASP system relay user input received through the client user interface from the user at the client to the ASP system and relay output e.g. video audio or other from an application provided by the ASP system to one or more components of the client configured to receive and present the output through the client user interface e.g. video output to the video display of the client and audio data to the sound processor of the client .

For some embodiments the client module may provide the client user interface by generating the client user interface at the client and then presenting the client user interface to a user through a display device e.g. video display of a tablet computing device of the client . Additionally some embodiments may provide the client user interface by generating the client user interface at the ASP system e.g. in the access server module and then sending the generated client user interface from the ASP system e.g. the access server module to the client module for presentation to the user e.g. through a display device coupled to the client . In general the presented client user interface is a graphical user interface GUI adapted for user interaction through the client and its coupled peripherals which may include a touch screen. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the configuration appearance and behavior of the client user interface provided by the client module may vary based on among other things the type of digital device comprising the client or the computing resources of the client available to the client module e.g. peripherals available to the client or modes of input available through the client .

The client module may further be configured to receive and relay control information from an input device e.g. peripheral coupled to the client e.g. physical or on screen keyboard integrated into the client or peripheral externally communicatively coupled to the client to the ASP system . Likewise the client module may relay control information or other data between devices communicatively coupled to the client and the ASP system e.g. the client module relays print data from the ASP system to a printer coupled to the client .

The client module may be also configured to provide an interface at the client operable in presenting one or more features relating to social productivity as described herein. For example the client module may provide an interface enabling access to contextual information regarding data content objects an interface presenting or otherwise facilitating a workspace or other space an interface presenting or otherwise facilitating a dashboard and an interface facilitating notification services relating to social productivity through the ASP system .

For example the client module may be further configured to provide a workspace interface at the client operable in presenting one or more data content objects e.g. files stored on one or more separate and disparate cloud based storage services e.g. third party services or stored locally at the client for access through the client . For some embodiments the workspace interface may allow a user at the client to request workspace operations with respect to the data content objects presented through the workspace interface. The data content object presented may include those locally stored and or those stored on various cloud based storage services external to the ASP system . The workspace operations supported may include adding deleting renaming and moving data content objects stored on one or more cloud based storage services or locally at the client . Data content objects such as files presented through the workspace interface may be selectable for opening through the ASP system possibly through a virtualized application instance accessed through the ASP system .

In some embodiments the client module includes a runtime application compatible with the operating system of the client and that is a native application of the client . Additionally the runtime application may be configured to provide facilitate access by the client to data content objects applications and social productivity features provided through the ASP system . In this way the client module and its runtime application may provide access to data content objects or applications that may be incompatible with the operation system of the client or that may otherwise not be operable on the client without the use of the client module . In this way the client module may also facilitate access to uniform and agnostic access to data content objects residing on one or more different storage locations external to the client and the ASP system such as location provided by different cloud based storage services e.g. Dropbox Box etc. . Additionally the client module may enable various social productivity features described herein such as those relating to context for data content objects workspaces and dashboards.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in some embodiments access to data content objects applications and social productivity features through the ASP system may be facilitated by a third party communication application such as a web browser application often used to access web pages.

The client module may also be configured to provide universal and or agnostic management access to various data content objects that are stored at separate and disparate data storage services but made available through the ASP system . Accordingly in some embodiments the client module may comprise a management interface adapted to receive user requests for management operations such as adding e.g. by creation of a new file or by upload deleting moving and renaming data content objects. For some embodiments the client module may utilize web based application programming interfaces APIs which may be associated with one or more web applications e.g. Google Docs to access files stored on cloud based services. For example in order to list data content objects accessible through the ASP system the client module may utilize web based APIs for a given cloud based service e.g. Dropbox Box or Google Docs to directly perform management operations e.g. listing of stored files adding files deleting files or renaming files with respect to that service. Then when a data content object listed through the client module is selected for opening through the ASP system the client module may instruct the ASP system to obtain a copy to the selected data content object from it respective storage source e.g. cloud based storage source or local storage source or directly access the data content object from its respective storage source. Thereafter the ASP system may initiate a virtualized application instance having access to the selected data content object and the output data of the virtualized application instance may be transmitted to the client .

According to some embodiments when the data content objects from different storage services e.g. different third party cloud based storage services and or locally stored at the client are presented e.g. through a workspace presented in a segregated manner according to their storage source e.g. grouped according to storage source or projects or presented in a common pane with little or no indication of a data content object s storage source. In some embodiments when a data content object presented through the interface is selected for opening the ASP system may access the data content object directly from its corresponding storage source e.g. cloud based storage service or local storage at the client or obtain a cached copy of the data content object selected its corresponding storage source and then present the data content object for access through a virtualized application instance. Where a cached copy of the data content object is utilized for opening the data content object the ASP system may be configured to commit any changes update performed on the cached copy to the original copy at the original storage location e.g. commitment occurs when the virtual application instance is closed .

By providing an interface having universal and or agnostic access to one or more disparate data storage services and or the local storage source various embodiments can provide users e.g. at the client with a workspace through which data content objects stored in disparate locations can be universally agnostically accessed for collaborative management viewing or editing purposes. present example client user interfaces that according to some embodiments could be presented by the client module at the client .

Continuing with reference to the access server module may be configured to facilitate user access e.g. by a user at the client to data content objects applications or social productivity features e.g. contextual information workspaces dashboard etc. that are provided through the ASP system . In some embodiments the access server module may achieve this by performing some or all of the following on behalf of a user accessing the ASP system from the client a establishing and maintaining communication between the client and the ASP system b authenticating access to the ASP system and its various components by the user c establishing and maintaining one or more application access sessions also referred to herein as application sessions for the user whereby each application access session may comprise an instance of an application e.g. an instance of a particular version of an application being executed or controlled by the ASP system on behalf of the user at the client d implementing user preferences and settings for the user s access of the ASP system e implementing and enforcing user policy on the user s access of the ASP system f enabling access by the applications being executed or controlled by the ASP system to data content objects e.g. files stored on or stored using third party data storage services e.g. third party cloud based storage services such as Dropbox or Google Docs g monitoring the user s access of the ASP system h maintaining statistics or analytics based on the user s access of the ASP system and i facilitating billing of the user based on their access or usage of the ASP system .

The access server module may perform some or all of the following when the ASP system provides social productivity features to the client a interacting with the context module to provide or otherwise facilitate social productivity features that relate to contextual information for data content objects accessed through the ASP system b interacting with the workspace module to provide or otherwise facilitate presentation of a workspace or another space to the client by the ASP system c interacting with the dashboard module to provide or otherwise facilitate presentation of a dashboard to the client by the ASP system and d interacting with the message notification module to provide or otherwise facilitate notifications e.g. e mails instant messages or push notifications to the client in regard to events relating to data content objects accessed through the ASP system .

In some embodiments the access server module may on behalf of the client negotiate establish and otherwise facilitate the establishment of a connection between the client module and an application being provided via the virtualization module and the application module . Once established the access server module may continue to monitor or control the connection possibly in accordance with user preferences settings and policies utilized by the ASP system .

The access server module may further be configured to manage the overall operation of the ASP system discussed further herein. For example the access server module may be operable to track and manage resources for the ASP system which may involve monitoring managing computer resource utilization e.g. memory utilization processor utilization or network bandwidth utilization by various components of the ASP system or cloud based services e.g. SaaS PaaS or IaaS utilized by various components of the ASP system . As another example the access server module may be responsible for distributing the workload of serving two or more clients similar to the client across one or more access servers performing the operations of the access server module .

The storage module may be configured to establish and or maintain access to data on third party data storage services by an application executing or being controlled by the ASP system on behalf of the user at the client . In some embodiments the storage module may achieve this by receiving storing and utilizing access parameters e.g. third party access parameters such as protocol information username password encryption key signature file identifier navigation address third party storage identifier or the like provided by the user at the client in association with a third party data storage service e.g. a cloud based data storage service such as Dropbox or Google Docs which the user wishes to access through the ASP system . For example when the user requests access to data content objects e.g. files stored using a third party data storage service the storage module may establish a connection with the third party data storage service using the stored access parameters e.g. protocol information username password encryption key signature file identifier navigation address third party storage identifier or the like provided by the user retrieve a listing of the data content objects stored on using or otherwise made available through the third party data storage service in association with the access parameters provided and access the data content objects according to the user s access request. Depending on the embodiment the user may cause data content objects stored on the third party data storage service to be accessed by the ASP system for example when the user requests to review a listing of data content objects e.g. files stored on the third party data storage service or when the user chooses to access data content objects e.g. open view or edit a file using an application provided by the ASP system e.g. through the application module .

In addition to establishing and or maintaining access to data on third party data storage services e.g. Dropbox Box or Google Docs the storage module may be configured to permit the ASP system to manage data content objects on the third party data storage services on behalf of the client . For instance the storage module may permit the ASP system to implement data content object management functions e.g. workspace functions with respect to data content objects stored on disparate third party data storage services thereby enabling a user at the client to perform data content objects management operations through the client module . According to some embodiments the storage module may be operable with the client module such that users can utilize data content object management functions through a data content object manager interface e.g. a dashboard or a workspace graphical user interface presented by the client module .

The virtualization module may be configured to establish monitor maintain or otherwise manage execution of an instance of an application in a virtual computing environment hereafter also referred to as a virtualized application instance for access by the user at the client . An instance of the application may be executed in a virtual computing environment in association with an application session established for access by the user at the client . Accordingly in some embodiments the virtualization module may initiate or manage execution of an instance of the application based on requests received from the access server module .

In some embodiments the instance of an application which is operated in a virtual computing environment for the benefit of user access may be based on a particular version of the application. Depending on the embodiment the version of the application chosen selected for execution as the application instance may be determined by the access server module the virtualization module the application module or some combination thereof. Factors influencing the determination of the version may include for the example the number of user licenses available for a given version of the application the type of data to be accessed by the application e.g. file has a format A that is compatible with a version B of the application the user accessing the application e.g. user s access privileges or user s subscription type with respect to the ASP system the capabilities of the client device e.g. the client device is equipped with a high definition display compatible with the high definition output of a particular version of an application the computing resources presently available to the ASP system or network bandwidth required to provide the client with access to the given version of the application. In some embodiments the virtualization module may utilize an internal hypervisor or interface with an external hypervisor configured to manage execution of the instance of an application in a virtual computing environment. Additionally the virtualization module may employ the use of a cloud based services e.g. SaaS IaaS or PaaS possibly provided by a third party e.g. Amazon EC2 GoGrid or Rackspace to execute the instance the instance of an application in the virtual computing environment.

In various embodiments the virtualization module of the ASP system may initiate any number of virtualized application instances. For example the virtualization module may initiate e.g. command initiation of any number of virtualized application instance by the ASP system and or any number of servers e.g. other ASP systems and or other servers . In some embodiments the virtualization module creates and executes a local virtualization environment.

The application module may be configured to obtain or retrieve a version of an application for execution in a virtual computing environment for access by the user at the client . For example the application module retrieves a version of the application on behalf of the virtualization module and then provides the retrieved version to the virtualization module for execution in a virtual computing environment. Depending on the embodiment the application module may retrieve the version of the application based on a request from the virtualization module or the access server module e.g. which as described herein may be responsible for managing application sessions for the user access . The application module may retrieve the version of the application from an application repository not shown which for some embodiments may be implemented using one or more file servers database servers or some combination thereof. For example the version of the application may be retrieved from a cloud based services configured to serve the version of the application e.g. to the application module upon request. The application repository may store a variety of versions for a given application e.g. for Microsoft Word the application repository may store Word 2011 Word 2008 Word 2004 and Word 2001 and provide the appropriate version of the given application based on the request discussed above. Each version of the application may be stored on the application repository as a single separate application executable file as a directory containing the version s associated executable file s and any supporting files e.g. software library files or as a binary image or compressed file containing the version s associated executable file s and any possible supporting files e.g. software library files or some combination thereof.

For some embodiments retrieval of the version of the application may comprise the application module retrieving a path or link to data e.g. a copy of the application or an image of the application corresponding to the version of the application to be retrieved. This path or link to the data may then be conveyed by the application module to the virtualization module which uses the data at the path link to instantiate a virtualized application instance.

For some embodiments the virtualization module and the application module may be implemented as single module not shown that utilizes a cloud based service e.g. SaaS IaaS or PaaS to provide a version of an application executing in a virtual computer environment. Such a cloud based service may be provided by a third party cloud based service which may be manage or controlled by the ASP system using APIs compatible with the service.

To utilize the cloud based services for the virtualization module the application module and possibly other components of the ASP system the ASP system may employ application programming interfaces APIs e.g. those provided by Amazon GoGrid or Rackspace that permit the ASP system and its various components to provision e.g. request the use of consume and release services provided by cloud based services. For example the virtualization module may utilize an Infrastructure as a Service IaaS API e.g. driver to provision one or more virtual machines to operate one or more virtualized application instances while the application module the IaaS API to for provisioning virtual machines to store copies images of applications utilized by the virtualization module to instantiate virtualized application instances .

The context module may be configured to provide or otherwise facilitate capturing and maintaining contextual information regarding data content objects accessed by the client through the ASP system . In some embodiments the context module may detect an event that occurred with respect to a data content object accessible through the ASP system where the event may be a result of an action performed on the data content object through the ASP system at a request of a first user at the client . Upon detecting the event the context module may capture contextual information relating to the event in a history buffer. Subsequently the contextual information captured by the context module may be retained to support various social productivity features provided by the ASP system including those provided by the workspace module or the dashboard module . Additionally the context module may provide a reference based on the contextual information where the reference enables a second user e.g. at another client to traverse to a location in the data content object relating to the event. For example when the second user selects to traverse the reference the traversal may cause the ASP system to instruct an application being controlled by the ASP system and being executed on behalf of the second user to access the data content object and move to the location associated with the reference.

The context module may also be configured to create or facilitate the creation of an activity stream for data content objects based on the contextual information captured by the context module . For example the context module may provide the contextual information captured to the workspace module which may be configured to create and present an activity stream for a data content object in connection with a workspace or other space . Likewise the context module may provide the contextual information captured to the dashboard module to update or create an activity stream in relation to a data content object.

The workspace module may be configured to provide or otherwise facilitate presentation of a workspace or another space to the client by the ASP system . In some embodiments the workspace module may associate a data content object with a workspace possibly at the request of a user at a client e.g. the client . The workspace module may detect an event that occurred with respect to the data content object accessible through the ASP system . The event may be a result of an action performed on the data content object through the ASP system at a request of a first user at the client . Based on the detect event the workspace module may inform a second user e.g. at another client of the event where the second user may be associated with the workspace.

The workspace module may at the request of the first user at the client delegate a task to another user e.g. the second user in association with at least a portion of content in the data content object. The workspace module may subsequently receive a response to the task from the other user e.g. the second user and integrate the response into the portion of content. Additionally the workspace module may inform the first user at the client regarding the response received from the other user e.g. the second user and may further inform the first user of the integration of the response into the portion of content originally delegated.

For some embodiments when a first user delegates a task to another user in association with a portion of content in a data content object the other user may be limited to providing a response for only that portion of content. Additionally the integration of the response into the corresponding portion may only affect the portion associated with the task. Depending on the embodiment the response provided by the other user may be a revised version of the content portion associated with the delegated task.

The dashboard module may be configured to provide or otherwise facilitate presentation of a dashboard to the client by the ASP system . In some embodiments the dashboard module may detect an event that occurred with respect to a first data content object accessible through the ASP system . The event may be a result of an action performed on the first data content object through the ASP system at a request of a first user at the client . The dashboard module may determine whether an attribute of the first event satisfies a criterion. An attribute of the event evaluated for a criterion can include for example attributes of the data content object relating to the event e.g. type of data content object size owner date created date modified etc. the type of event the time of the event the date of the event the user causing the event the identity of the application involved in the event and the type of application involved in the event. Where the attribute of the event is determined to satisfy the criterion the dashboard module may provide a first card relating to the event and configured to be presented to a second user at a second client. When presented the first event card may be presented through a dashboard configured to present the second user with events relating to other data content objects in conjunction with the first event card. By the use of one or more criteria the dashboard module can implement noise and relevancy controls that determine which events are presented to the second user at the second client and at what time.

For example through one or more criteria the dashboard module can implement one or more threshold conditions e.g. based on time date count of event type of event frequency of event etc. for determining relevancy of data content objects and events when presenting related event cards on a dashboard. The threshold condition may be defined by or evaluated according to a numerical value that controls the granularity of the threshold condition. For example for a numerical value that ranges between 1 and 10 a numerical values closer to 1 can cause the threshold condition to be adjusted such that the dashboard module presents more events regarding data content objects and a numerical values closer to 10 can cause the threshold condition to be adjusted such that the dashboard module presents less events regarding data content objects.

Additionally a threshold condition implemented by criteria can define such user based relevancy conditions as did the user recently create the data content object did the user recently change the data content object has the user commented on the data content object has the user reviewed the content of the data content object or has the user collaboratively worked with another user that has changed or otherwise accessed the data content object.

The message notification module may be configured to provide or otherwise facilitate notifications to the client from the ASP system . In some embodiments the message notification module may be configured to cause the transmission of a message from the ASP system to the client that notifies a user at the client of events that may have recently transpired and or that may be of relevance to the user e.g. based on one or more criteria . Depending on the embodiment the message transmitted by way of the message notification module may use one or more different means of communication including for example an e mail a mobile text message a push based notification system and a social networking service. According to some embodiment the message notification module may interface with the messaging service server to cause the transmission of the message from the ASP system to the client . In various embodiments the message notification module may utilize a messaging system internal to and provided by the ASP system .

As also illustrated in the storage module may comprise network protocol based storage APIs that permit access to a network file system using non web based methodologies. For certain embodiments the storage module may utilize the network protocol based storage APIs to access file system based on various network protocols including for example Network File System NFS Samba file transfer protocol FTP and the like.

As further shown in the functionality of the ASP system may be implemented by way of access servers ACSto ACS represented by access servers ACSs and and application servers APSto APSrepresented by application servers APSs and . Although a limited number of clients ACSs and APSs are depicted in those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be any number of clients ACSs and APSs. Ellipses in indicate that any number of clients ACSs and APSs could be present in the exemplary environment .

In some embodiments the ACSs and may implement some or all of the functionality provided by the access server module as described in reference to and the APSs and may implement some or all of the functionality provided by some or all of the storage module the virtualization module the application module the context module the workspace module the dashboard module and the message notification module as described in reference to . Specifically according to some embodiments the workload of providing some or all of the services or functionalities of the access server module may be distributed amongst some or all of the ACSs and and the workload of providing while the workload of providing some or all of the services or functionalities of the storage module the virtualization module the application module the context module the workspace module the dashboard module and the message notification module may be distributed amongst some or all of the APSs and . In some instances the ACSs and may utilize load balancing to distribute the workload amongst the available ACSs and the APSs and may utilize load balancing to distribute the workload amongst the available APSs. In various embodiments one or more digital devices may manage and or provide load balancing to any number of ACSs and or any number of APSs. By distributing the workload amongst multiple ACSs and APSs certain embodiments may provide acceptable performance e.g. enough availability of computing resources to provide the requested applications with user acceptable performance scalability e.g. near real time user scalability according to demand or the number of users currently utilizing the ASP system increases or decreases or application scalability to provide more variety of applications operating on a variety of operating systems and reliability e.g. through redundancy of servers and components or lower bandwidth per user with respect to the ASP system .

In the example illustrated in a dashed line illustrates a virtual communication channel hereafter referred to as virtual communication channel between the client and the application servers and established via the access server . In some embodiments the virtual communication channel between the client and the application servers and may be implemented by way of one or more network connections between the client and the access server and one or more networks connections between the access server and each of the application servers and . Alternatively in some embodiments the virtual communication channel between the client and the application servers and may be implemented by the access server mediating one or more network connections directly between the client and each of the application servers and .

Once established the virtual communication channel enables data flow over the network connections between the client and the access server and data flow between the client and the application servers and via the access server . Through such the data flows the client may for example be serviced by the access server e.g. in accordance with the access server module described in or obtain access to application services and social productivity features provided by each of the application servers and via the access server .

The event module may be configured to detect an event that occurred with respect to a data content object accessible through the ASP system . The event may be one resulting from an action performed on the data content object through the ASP system at a request of a first user at the client . As such the event module may determine events being performed on a data content object by a user using a data content object processing application. As described herein an event can comprise an operation being performed on content of the data content object being accessed the ASP system e.g. reading creating modifying removing inserting and moving content creating removing uploading or downloading the data content object through the ASP system a user sharing the data content object with another user through the ASP system or associating or disassociating the data content object to a workspace or a tag through the ASP system . Events can comprise a temporal oriented location oriented or relationship oriented change for the data content object.

For certain embodiments the event module may detect an event with respect to a data content object by monitoring interactions between the client and the ASP system as the first user at the client accesses a data content object through the ASP system . For example as the client requests an application controlled by the ASP system to insert move delete change or otherwise access content in the data content object the event module can monitor such operation requests and detect event accordingly. For particular embodiments the event module may detect an event when an application remotely executing on behalf of the client informs the event module or some other module of the ASP system regarding operations being performed on content of the data content object at the request of the client . For instance the application remotely executing on behalf of the client may provide the event module or some other module of the ASP system with a listing of such operations and or changes resulting from such changes.

The capture module may be configured to capture contextual information relating to the event detected by the event module and to store the captured contextual information e.g. indications for detected events using the history buffer module . The contextual information can comprise user information date information time information or location information in relation to the detected event. For some embodiment the contextual information may comprise information provided by an application performing the action that results in the event. For example where the application performing the action is one being controlled by the ASP system and being executed on behalf of the first user at the client the application may provide metadata relating to the action. In another example the application may provide a listing of changes implemented to the data content object by the application at the request the first user at the client . The listing may comprise an array of changes implemented by the application with the changes possibly being sorted according to time of implementation e.g. oldest to most recent change . The application may provide such a listing of changes when the application is instructed e.g. by the user at the client to save the save commit the changes implemented to the data content object to storage. As described herein the saving or committing changes to the data content object to storage may involve uploading a resulting changed data content object to a cloud based storage service.

For some embodiments the application may provide a listing of changes subsequent to the capture module requesting such changes from the application which may occur after an event has been detected . In this way the capture module may obtain an event indication and or information by pulling information from the application. Additionally in some embodiments the application may provide a listing of changes to the capture module without need for request by the capture module . In this way the application can push an indication and or information regarding an event to the capture module possibly as the event is occurring at the application or soon after. Depending on the embodiment the capture module may receive event indications and or information according to a schedule based on satisfaction of certain conditions e.g. occurrence of a specific type of event or some combination thereof. It will be appreciated that the application may provide the capture module with indications and or information for events other than those relating to changes to a data content object.

In some embodiments the event indications and or information provided by an application to the capture module may vary based on the features or capabilities of the application. For instance the features or capabilities of a given application may determine the amount of information provided for events and or for what event types the given application can provide an indication.

The capture module may capture and facilitate retention of contextual information in relation to a data content object. As described herein the retained contextual information can support various social productivity features provided by the ASP system including those provided by the workspace module or the dashboard module .

The history buffer module may be configured to store contextual information captured by the capture module . Depending on the embodiment the history buffer module may maintain a separate history buffer for each data content object a separate history buffer for each workspace or an alternative configuration of history buffers e.g. per a user interacting with a data content object . The history buffer module may store contextual information for a data content object in a table e.g. database table where the table may have one or more of the following fields file version field operation sequence number field object path field operation field operation data field time field user field and change field.

The file version field may provide a modification time or a storage version number for the data content object relating to the contextual information being stored. The operation sequence number field may identify the historical version of the data content object relating to the contextual information being stored. The object path may provide a path or some other identifier to the data content object relating to the contextual information being stored. An example of the path may include filename section paragraph for a word processing document file filename sheet for a spreadsheet document file and filename slide for a presentation document file. The operation field may provide information identifying the operation performed on the data content object relating to the contextual information is being stored. Examples of operations that can be identified by the field can include insert delete change read and the like. The operation data field may provide data facilitating a redo operation an undo operation or some other complex operations with respect to the content of the data content object relating to the contextual information being stored. The time field may indicate the time for the event that resulted in the contextual information that being stored. The user field may indicate one or more users that caused the event relating to the contextual information that being stored. The change field may provide text image or some other type of content that presents or summarizes the effect e.g. change of the event on the content of the data content object.

For some embodiments some or all of the foregoing fields may facilitate operational transformations with respect to content of a data content objects associated with the contextual information. In various embodiments some or all of the foregoing fields can be also used to uniquely identify a version of a data content object. For example a unique object identifier can comprise an operation sequence number and an object path which may facilitate use of the unique object identifier when accessing various versions of data content objects through the ASP system e.g. via the client or via an API .

The history buffer module may be configured to maintain and subsequently provide contextual information to support various social productivity features provided by the ASP system including those provided by the workspace module or the dashboard module . In various embodiment the history buffer module captures indications and or information relating to various types of events that occur in association with a data content object.

For example where the event is a change to the content of a data content object the history buffer module may store contextual information regarding the event a table having one or more of the following fields a change type field a position field a summary field a base version field and a current version field. The change type field may indicate the type of content change e.g. insert update delete or move content that occurred with respect to the data content object. The position field can provide data indicating the position in the content of the data content object where the change occurred. For some embodiments such position information may be utilized when providing a reference to the location for the purposes of another user to traverse to the location. The summary field may provide a text based description of the change implemented by the event. Depending on the embodiment the description stored in the summary field may be user defined auto generated or some combination thereof. The base version field may indicate previous version of the data content object before the change event. The current version field may indicate the version of the data content object immediately after the change event. In some embodiments some or all of the foregoing fields may facilitate operational transformation with respect to content of data content objects relating to the change events.

In another example where the data content object is a workspace object the contextual information maintained may include events e.g. changes made to the workspace object and or events that occur with respect to data content objects associated with the workspace object e.g. change to a file or people object associated with a workspace corresponding to the workspace object .

The reference module may be configured to provide a reference based on the contextual information where the reference enables a second user e.g. at another client to traverse to a location in the data content object relating to the event. Once a reference is provided it may be presented to the second user for review and or traversal. For some embodiments the reference may be a universal resource locator or some other form of link which when selected for traversal by a user at a client can result in the ASP system to instruct an application being controlled by the ASP system and being executed on behalf of the second user to access the data content object and move to the location associated with the reference.

The traversal module may be configured to receive a request from a second user e.g. at another client to traverse the reference to the location in the data content object relating to the event. In response to the request from the second user the traversal module may instruct an application to traverse to the location corresponding to the reference. For example the second user can select to traverse the reference and cause the ASP system to instruct an application being controlled by the ASP system and being executed on behalf of the second user to access the data content object and move to the location referenced. Depending on the embodiment the ASP system may provide the second user with access to the application before during or after the traversal module instructs the application to traverse to the location corresponding to the reference. Additionally for some embodiments the traversal module may instruct the application through the use of one or more other modules of the ASP system including for example the access server module the storage module the virtualization module and the application module .

The association module may be configured to determine one or more users authorized and designated to receive a notification e.g. from the event notification module about events detected e.g. by the event module with respect to a data content object. Such a determination by the association module may be based on association of the one or more users with the data content object. The association module may be further configured to permit a user to associate a data content object accessible through the ASP system with workspace or some other type of space. As described herein a workspace can refer to a general space e.g. system or user created that can hold all other types of spaces e.g. file space people space group space etc. that can be associated with one or more data content objects of one or more types and that can agnostically augment different types of data content objects accessed through the workspace. For some embodiments workspaces can be associated with one or more users e.g. through workspace sharing and can be associated such that the users can have varying levels of access to data content objects accessible through the workspace. When accessing a workspace a user can choose to access a data content object associated with the workspace and the workspace may augment such access with contextual information historically gathered in relation to the data content object.

The event module may be configured to detect an event that occurred with respect to the data content object. The event may be one resulting from an action performed on the data content object through the ASP system at a request of a first user at the client . Additionally the first user may be associated with the workspace.

As described herein an event can comprise an operation being performed on content of the data content object being accessed the ASP system e.g. reading creating modifying removing inserting and moving content creating removing uploading or downloading the data content object through the ASP system a user sharing the data content object with another user through the ASP system or associating or disassociating the data content object to a workspace or a tag through the ASP system . Events can comprise a temporal oriented location oriented or relationship oriented change for the data content object.

As also described herein the event module may detect an event with respect to a data content object by monitoring interactions between the client and the ASP system as the first user at the client accesses a data content object through the ASP system . For example as the client requests an application controlled by the ASP system to insert move delete change or otherwise access content in the data content object the event module can monitor such operation requests and detect event accordingly. Additionally the event module may detect an event when an application remotely executing on behalf of the client informs the event module or some other module of the ASP system regarding operations being performed on content of the data content object at the request of the client . For instance the application remotely executing on behalf of the client may provide the event module or some other module of the ASP system with a listing of such operations and or changes resulting from such changes.

The event notification module may be configured to provide a notification for a data content object in connection with the event detected by the event module e.g. provide a data content object event notification . In some embodiments providing a notification in connection with the event detected by the event module may involve the event notification module selecting one or more particular events in the history buffer e.g. the history buffer module for which notifications may be generated and generating a data content object event notification identifying the one or more particular events performed on the first data content object.

In accordance with some embodiments the notification provided by the event notification module may include an event card comprising a unit of summarized information regarding the event in association with the data content object. Once generated a card can be presented to a user through a workspace to inform them of an event in relation to a data content object. A card can comprise some or all of the contextual information captured in association with an event a comment section configured to present or receive a comment in association with the event or a secondary action e.g. call of action configured to be performed an operation with respect to the card at the request of the user perceiving the card e.g. the percipient user . Some examples of secondary actions include entering a comment in association with the first card e.g. liking an event liking an existing comment or replying to a an existing comment sharing the first card with another user deferring presentation of the first card e.g. defer based on time date or another event assigning a task associated with the event to another user.

According to some embodiments a card may generated according to a model comprising an avatar image representing a user associated with an event one or more users e.g. actors causing the event a listing of one or more activities e.g. verbs relating to the event e.g. User 1 performed Activities A B and C an identifier for the data content object a summary for the event a comment entered in association with the event secondary actions e.g. calls to action associated with the card e.g. dismiss to archive card defer card to another time delete card or accept card to indicate that card was accepted or otherwise acted upon a date stamp for when the card was presented and or when the event occurred or noise controls configured to permit the user to adjust visibility of the current card and or other cards. The summary of the event may include may include text images or other content describing the event and may also include references links to the location in the content relating to the event. Additionally for some embodiments the summary may be auto generated by the event notification module when the event notification module provides the card in response to an event. The noise controls can adjust or bypass one or more criteria that determine which event cards are presented for a user and or when certain events are presented to the user.

The share module may be configured to share the workspace or some other space with the second user at the request of the first user. The sharing of the space or content to the second user can also result in the event module detecting the share event and or the event notification module issuing a notification relating to the share event.

The share module may be further configured to share at least a portion of content in the data content object with another user at the request of the first user. For some embodiments the sharing of a space or content of the data content object can result in the second user being granted some level of access to the shared space or content possibly where such access did not already exist. For example where a first user shares a portion of content with a file object with a second user the first user may provide the second user with some level of access to the shared content portion. For instance the second user may be provided with read and or write access to only the shared portion of the file object or read access to all content of the file object but read and write access to the shared portion of the file object. In a further example where a share event provides the second user with some level of editing access to a data content object edits performed under such level of access may be maintained in a separate version associated with the user and may be incorporated into the original version after approval by another user e.g. the first user and or the user owning the data content object .

Further the sharing of the space or content to the second user can result in the second user being associated with the space or content. Based on such an association the second user may begin to receive cards relating to events that occur with respect to the shared space or content. When the first user shares a space or content of the data content object with the second user the first user can implement access limitations that can govern the second user s access to the space or content including limitations that determine whether the second user can share the shared space or content with a third user.

The delegate module may be configured to delegate a task to another user e.g. the second user in association with at least a portion of content in the data content object. For some embodiments the delegation of the task may result in the other user receiving the task e.g. description sender etc. and a copy of the portion of content associated with the task. In response to the task the other user may subsequently access the copied portion in accordance with the task and or perform an action with respect to the task. For some embodiments the response may comprise an action with respect to the task such as acceptance rejection completion or deferment of the task. The response may also comprise the copied content portion as revised by the other user where the copied content portion as revised is intended to replace portion of the content associated with the task.

Subsequently the delegate module may receive the response to the task from the other user e.g. the second user and act according to the response received. Where the response comprises an action with respect to the task the first user s status of the task will be updated accordingly. Where the response comprises content e.g. copied content portion as revised the delegate module may integrate the content from the response into the portion of content associated with the task possibly by replacing the original portion of content with the content from the response.

When a first user delegates a task to another user in association with a portion of content in a data content object the other user may be limited to providing a response for only that portion of content. The integration of the response into the corresponding portion may only affect the portion associated with the task.

For some embodiment the delegation of the task by the delegate module may result in the other user receiving the task e.g. description sender etc. and a share to the portion of content associated with the task. Accordingly when the other user accesses the shared portion of content the first user may be informed of such access. Additionally when the other user accesses the shared portion of content and performs changes on the shared portion of content such changes may be instantly reflected in the content of the data content object. As discussed herein when a share to a portion of content in a data content object is provided to another user through the delegate module the share may have limitations that restrict the other user s access to the shared portion and or to the remainder of the content of the data content object.

Upon receiving a form of response the workspace module may inform the first user at the client regarding the response received from the other user e.g. the second user . Where the response is integrated into the original portion of the content associated with the task the workspace module may further inform the first user of the integration.

As described herein the first user at the client can choose to access one or more data content objects through the perspective of spaces associated with different types of data content objects e.g. file space people space group space project space tag space etc. . The pivot module may be configured to pivot between spaces being provided to the client according to the type of data content object being accessed. For example when a user chooses to access a collection of different types of data content objects through the perspective of a single workspace the pivot module can pivot from a workspace to a specific space when the user selects a data content object associated with the space e.g. pivot to file space when a data content object that is a file is selected by the first user . Using the pivot module the first user can also choose to pivot between a specific space and a general workspace. As shown the pivot module comprises a file space module configured to access data content objects that are files a people space module configured to access data content objects relating to people a group space module configured to access data content objects relating to groups of people a project space module configured to access data content objects relating to a project and a tag space module configured to access data content objects relating to tags. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other spaces may be included in various embodiments for other types of data content objects including new spaces for data space object created by third party providers.

The event module may be configured to detect an event that occurred with respect to the data content object. The event may be one resulting from an action performed on the data content object through the ASP system at a request of a first user at the client . As described herein an event can comprise an operation being performed on content of the data content object being accessed the ASP system e.g. reading creating modifying removing inserting and moving content creating removing uploading or downloading the data content object through the ASP system a user sharing the data content object with another user through the ASP system or associating or disassociating the data content object to a workspace or a tag through the ASP system . Events can comprise a temporal oriented location oriented or relationship oriented change for the data content object.

As described herein the event module may detect an event with respect to a data content object by monitoring interactions between the client and the ASP system as a first user at the client accesses a data content object through the ASP system . For example as the client requests an application controlled by the ASP system to insert move delete change or otherwise access content in the data content object the event module can monitor such operation requests and detect event accordingly. Additionally the event module may detect an event when an application remotely executing on behalf of the client informs the event module or some other module of the ASP system regarding operations being performed on content of the data content object at the request of the client . For instance the application remotely executing on behalf of the client may provide the event module or some other module of the ASP system with a listing of such operations and or changes resulting from such changes.

The criterion module may be configured to determining whether an attribute of the first event satisfies a criterion. For example the criterion module may determine whether the one or more particular event indications satisfy a threshold condition permitting notification e.g. before the event notification module generates an data content object event notification . As described herein an attribute of the event evaluated for a criterion can include for example attributes of the data content object relating to the event e.g. type of data content object size owner date created date modified etc. the type of event the time of the event the date of the event the user causing the event the identity of the application involved in the event and the type of application involved in the event.

To determining whether an attribute of the first event satisfies a criterion the criterion module may first identify the criterion by which the attribute is evaluated. According to some embodiments the criterion may be identified according to a second user currently accessing the dashboard and reviewing the event cards being presented by the dashboard. In some embodiments the identification of the criterion can be based on the preferences or user settings of the second user or the user second user s past activities with respect to data content objects accessible through the ASP system .

Though the example of is generally described in terms of a single event attribute and a single criterion those skilled in the art will appreciate various embodiments may involve two or more event attributes and or two or more criteria. Additionally though the one or more criteria used by the criterion module may be identified based on the second user it should be understood that one or more criteria used by the criterion module may be identified by default e.g. one or more criteria applied system wide and or by other factors e.g. current system load .

Through one or more criteria the criterion module can implement one or more threshold conditions e.g. based on time date count of event type of event frequency of event etc. for determining relevancy of data content objects and events when presenting related event cards on a dashboard.

In one example a threshold condition may be defined by or evaluated according to a numerical value that controls the granularity of the threshold condition. For example for a numerical value that ranges between 1 and 10 a numerical values closer to 1 can cause the threshold condition to be adjusted such that the dashboard module presents more events regarding data content objects and a numerical values closer to 10 can cause the threshold condition to be adjusted such that the dashboard module presents less events regarding data content objects.

Additionally certain threshold conditions can be evaluated by the criterion module from the perspective of the second user. For example a threshold condition implemented by criteria may define such user based relevancy conditions as did the second user recently create the data content object did the second user recently change the data content object has the second user commented on the data content object has the second user reviewed the content of the data content object or has the second user collaboratively worked with another user that has changed or otherwise accessed the data content object. Those skilled in the art would understand that other threshold condition particular those from the perspective of the second user are also possible.

Where the criterion module determines the attribute of the event satisfies the criterion the event notification module may provide a notification for a data content object in connection with an event detected by the event module e.g. provide a data content object event notification . In accordance with some embodiments the notification provided by the event notification module may include a first event card hereafter first card relating to the event and configured to be presented to the second user at a second client. As described herein card and event card can refer to a unit of summarized information regarding an event in association with a data content object. Once generated a card can be presented to a user through a dashboard to inform them of an event in relation to a data content object. A card can comprise some or all of the contextual information captured in association with an event a comment section configured to present or receive a comment in association with the event or a secondary action e.g. call of action configured to be performed an operation with respect to the card at the request of the user perceiving the card e.g. the percipient user . Some examples of secondary actions include entering a comment in association with the first card e.g. liking an event liking an existing comment or replying to a an existing comment sharing the first card with another user deferring presentation of the first card e.g. defer based on time date or another event and assigning a task associated with the event to another user.

According to some embodiments a card may generated according to a model comprising an avatar image representing a user associated with an event one or more users e.g. actors causing the event a listing of one or more activities e.g. verbs relating to the event e.g. User 1 performed Activities A B and C an identifier for the data content object a summary for the event a comment entered in association with the event secondary actions e.g. calls to action associated with the card e.g. dismiss to archive card defer card to another time delete card or accept card to indicate that card was accepted or otherwise acted upon a date stamp for when the card was presented and or when the event occurred or noise controls configured to permit the user to adjust visibility of the current card and or other cards. The summary of the event may include may include text images or other content describing the event and may also include references links to the location in the content relating to the event. Additionally for some embodiments the summary may be auto generated by the event notification module when the event notification module provides the card in response to an event. The noise controls can adjust or bypass one or more criteria that determine which event cards are presented for a user and or when certain events are presented to the user.

In some embodiments providing a notification in connection with the event detected by the event module may involve the event notification module selecting one or more particular events in the history buffer e.g. the history buffer module for which notifications may be generated the criterion module determining whether the one or more particular event indications satisfy a threshold condition permitting notification and the event notification module generating a data content object event notification identifying the one or more particular events performed on the first data content object.

The presentation module may be configured to present the first event card through a dashboard where the dashboard is configured to present the second user with events relating to other data content objects in conjunction with the first event card. According to some embodiments the dashboard may be provided to and accessed by any user at a client and currently accessing the ASP system . Additionally as described herein the dashboard may vary according to the user accessing the dashboard and one or more criteria associated with the user which can determine the relevant event cards to be presented on the dashboard .

Depending on the embodiment the presentation module may present the dashboard through a graphical user interface GUI that enables various visual arrangements of event cards to be presented through the dashboard. For example the presentation module may be configured to visually arrange the event cards in the dashboard e.g. tiling event cards stack event cards arranging event cards in columns or rows according to card categories and or relevance to the user perceiving the dashboard. As described herein the criterion module may determine what event cards are relevant for presentation on the dashboard by the presentation module .

As shown the presentation module comprises a change module a message module a task module and a share module each of which can determine the event cards to be presented through the dashboard. The change module may be configured to identify and present event cards relating to changes to data content objects relevant to the user accessing the dashboard. The message module may be configured to identify and present event cards relating to electronic communication relevant to the user accessing the dashboard. The task module may be configured to identify and present event cards relating to delegated tasks and data content objects relevant to the user accessing the dashboard. The share module may be configured to identify and present event cards relating to shared data content objects relevant to the user accessing the dashboard. As described herein relevancy of a data content object and or an event can be determined in accordance with the one or more criteria imposed by the criterion module .

At step the capture module may be configured to capture contextual information relating to the event detected by the event module . According to some embodiments the capture module may store the captured contextual information using the history buffer module which may subsequently provide contextual information upon request.

At step the reference module may be configured to provide a reference based on the contextual information where the reference enables a second user e.g. at another client to traverse to a location in the data content object relating to the event.

At step the ASP system may present captured contextual information through an event card presented through a workspace being provided by the workspace module or through a dashboard presented by the dashboard module . With the contextual information the reference provided by the reference module may be presented in the event card thereby permitting the second user to select the reference for traversal to the event location.

At step the traversal module may be configured to receive a request from the second user e.g. at another client to traverse the reference to the location in the data content object relating to the event. In response to the request from the second user at step the traversal module may instruct an application to traverse to the location corresponding to the reference. For example the second user can select to traverse the reference and cause the ASP system to instruct an application being controlled by the ASP system and being executed on behalf of the second user to access the data content object and move to the location referenced. Depending on the embodiment the ASP system may provide the second user with access to the application before during or after the traversal module instructs the application to traverse to the location corresponding to the reference. Additionally for some embodiments the traversal module may instruct the application through the use of one or more other modules of the ASP system including for example the access server module the storage module the virtualization module and the application module .

Though the steps of method may be depicted and described in a certain order those skilled in the art will appreciate that the order in which the steps are performed may vary between embodiments. Additionally those skilled in the art will appreciate that the components described above with respect to the method are merely examples of components that may be used with the method and that other components may also be utilized in some embodiments.

At step the event module may detect an event that occurred with respect to the data content object. The event may be one resulting from an action performed on the data content object through the ASP system at a request of a first user at the client . Additionally the first user may be associated with the workspace of step .

At step the event notification module may be configured to inform a second user associated with the workspace regarding the event detected by the event module . According to some embodiments the second user may be associated with the workspace when the share module shares the workspace with the second user possibly based on a request from the first user at the client . Additionally for some embodiments the event notification module may inform the second user of the detected event by providing an event card relating to the event detected by the event module .

At step the delegate module may be configured to delegate a task to another user e.g. the second user in association with at least a portion of content in the data content object. For some embodiments the delegation of the task may result in the other user receiving the task e.g. description sender etc. and a copy of the portion of content associated with the task. In response to the task the other user may subsequently access the copied portion in accordance with the task and or perform an action with respect to the task. For some embodiments the response may comprise an action with respect to the task such as acceptance rejection completion or deferment of the task. The response may also comprise the copied content portion as revised by the other user where the copied content portion as revised is intended to replace portion of the content associated with the task.

At step the delegate module may receive the response to the task from the other user e.g. the second user and act according to the response received. Where the response comprises an action with respect to the task the first user s status of the task will be updated accordingly. Where the response comprises content e.g. copied content portion as revised at step the delegate module may integrate the content from the response into the portion of content associated with the task possibly by replacing the original portion of content with the content from the response.

For some embodiment the delegation of the task by the delegate module at step may result in the other user receiving the task e.g. description sender etc. and a share to the portion of content associated with the task. Accordingly when the other user accesses the shared portion of content the first user may be informed of such access. Additionally when the other user accesses the shared portion of content and performs changes on the shared portion of content such changes may be instantly reflected in the content of the data content object. As discussed herein when a share to a portion of content in a data content object is provided to another user through the delegate module the share may have limitations that restrict the other user s access to the shared portion and or to the remainder of the content of the data content object.

Though the steps of method may be depicted and described in a certain order those skilled in the art will appreciate that the order in which the steps are performed may vary between embodiments. Additionally those skilled in the art will appreciate that the components described above with respect to the method are merely examples of components that may be used with the method and that other components may also be utilized in some embodiments.

At step the criterion module may determine whether an attribute of the first event satisfies a criterion. To determine whether an attribute of the first event satisfies a criterion the criterion module may first identify the criterion by which the attribute is evaluated. According to some embodiments the criterion may be identified according to a second user currently accessing the dashboard and reviewing the event cards being presented by the dashboard. Additionally in some embodiments the identification of the criterion can be based on the preferences or user settings of the second user or the user second user s past activities with respect to data content objects accessible through the ASP system .

If at decision point the attributed is determined to not satisfy the criterion the method proceeds to step . At step the event module may detect a next event that occurred with respect to the data content object or another data content object. After step method can return to step .

If at decision point the attributed is determined to satisfy the criterion the method proceeds to step . At step the event notification module may provide a first card relating to the event and configured to be presented to the second user at a second client. At step the presentation module may present the first event card through a dashboard configured to present the second user with events relating to other data content objects in conjunction with the first event card. As described herein a card can comprise some or all of the contextual information captured in association with an event a comment section configured to present or receive a comment in association with the event or a secondary action e.g. call of action configured to be performed an operation with respect to the card at the request of the user perceiving the card e.g. the percipient user .

At step the event notification module may receive a request for a secondary action with respect to the first card and perform the request accordingly. Some examples of secondary actions include entering a comment in association with the first card e.g. liking an event liking an existing comment or replying to a an existing comment sharing the first card with another user deferring presentation of the first card e.g. defer based on time date or another event and assigning a task associated with the event to another user.

Though the steps of method may be depicted and described in a certain order those skilled in the art will appreciate that the order in which the steps are performed may vary between embodiments. Additionally those skilled in the art will appreciate that the components described above with respect to the method are merely examples of components that may be used with the method and that other components may also be utilized in some embodiments.

At step the client may request the access server for access to a selected file. Where an application compatible the selected file is not already executing the access server may arrange for an instantiation of an application the compatible with the selected file to be invoked on the application server . Once an application compatible with the file is executing on the application server hereafter the executing application at step the access server may instruct the executing application access e.g. open the selected file.

In response the instruction step the execution application on the application server may access e.g. open the selected file. For some embodiments the selected file may be accessed from a cloud based storage service accessible by the executing application via the access server .

Subsequent to accessing the selected file at step the application server may provide the client with access to the executing application. For some embodiments the access by the client to the executing application on the application server may be facilitated through the access server .

At step the client may request the executing application on the application server to perform actions that result in change to the selected file. For some embodiments the request from the client to the executing application on the application server may be facilitated through the access server .

At step the executing application on the application server may perform the actions requested by the client on the selected file. The executing application may further save the changes that result in the selected file. The executing application may save the changes by saving a changed version of the selected file locally and then uploading the change version of the select file to the cloud based storage service from which the selected file originated.

At step the executing application on the application server may provide the access server with contextual information regarding the changes to the selected file. The contextual information provided by the executing application may comprise a listing of the changes implemented to the selected file the types of changes implemented metadata resulting from the changes and or operational transformation information relating to the changes. In accordance with some embodiments the contextual information may be provided to the access server upon request of the access server . For some embodiments the request may be facilitated by a function call compatible with the application server and or the executing application. The function call may be one from an application programming interface API compatible with the application server and or the executing application.

At step the access server may capture the contextual information regarding the changes to selected file which can include the contextual information received from the executing application on the application server . In accordance with some embodiments the access server may store and maintain the captured contextual information in a history buffer. The history buffer utilized may be one exclusively used for contextual information collected with respect to the selected file. Based on the contextual information captured the access server may cause an event card relating to the changes to be presented in the workspaces and dashboards of those users associated with the selected file.

At step the client may request a listing of files available for access through the access server . At step the access server may provide the listing of files requested. At step the client may request the access server to provide a listing of activities for a file selected from the listing provided at step . In response at step the access server may obtain a listing of activities for the selected from from the contextual information stored in association with the selected file. As described herein the contextual information may be stored in a history buffer related to e.g. dedicated to the selected file.

Included in the listing of activities are positions in the content of the selected file relating to the listed activities. To ensure that the positions of the activities are accurate and current during step the access server may also utilize an operational transformation OT engine configured to update the position information contained in the listing of activities. According to some embodiments the access server facilitate this update the access server may fetch all activities and changes relating to the selected file and pass all activities and changes to the OT engine. The OT engine may scan the activities and changes passed and update changes according to the OT engine logic. Subsequently the OT engine may return the updated position information to the access server . According to some embodiments where the client is requesting a listing of activities for a certain section e.g. page N of the selected file rather than for the entirety of the selected file the access server may need to filter and provide the listing of activities accordingly particularly after the OT engine has updated the position information.

At step the access server may provide the client with the listing of activities requested in relation to the selected file. The provided listing of activities can include for example information for positions in the selected file where activity occurred a listing of changes that occurred in the selected file and visualization of the changes that occurred in the selected file. For some embodiments the position information provided in the listing of activities may be similar in function and or structure to the references described herein.

At step based on the position information provided in the listing of activities the client may request the access server to traverse to a position in the selected file relating to a select activity provided in the listing of activities. At step the access server may respond by instruction the application executing on behalf of the client to access the selected file and traverse to the position in the selected file.

The activity stream pane may be configured to present events e.g. event cards in relation to the file current being accessed through space represented by the interface . As shown the activity stream pane is presenting comments in relation to the file. In accordance with some embodiments where references to data content objects are presented in association with events selecting any of those references may result in the user traversing to the data content object and accessing the data content object through a space or an application capable of accessing the content of the reference data content object.

The activity stream pane may be configured to present events e.g. event cards in relation to the workspace current being accessed through space represented by the interface . Events relating to the workspace can include events relating to the users and or data content objects e.g. files associated with the workspace . In the activity stream pane is presenting a listing of events that includes events relating to changes to files associated with the workspace an event relating to a paragraph of a file associated with the workspace being shared with multiple users an event relating to an audio comment being posted in association with the workspace an event regarding a comment being posted in association with the workspace an event relating to a conversation e.g. e mail or instance message reply sent in association with the workspace and events regarding to comments created within a file associated with the workspace.

The user may add to the conversation by leaving a text audio or video message through field of the interface . Additionally as shown the listing of events includes one or more references to access other data content objects references in the events.

In the dashboard interface comprises columns that can present events gathered from one or more workspaces in connection with one or more data content objects associated with those workspaces. The dashboard interface presents a change column a message column a task and reminder column and a shared document column . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for some embodiments the interface for a dashboard may include more or less columns of than those presented in and of varying types.

The change column may be configured to collect and present events relating to changes that occurred in files e.g. documents relevant to the user accessing the dashboard interface . Examples of threshold conditions that can determine relevance of files to the user can include did the user recently create the data content object did the user recently change the data content object has the user commented on the data content object has the user reviewed the content of the data content object and has the user collaboratively worked with another user that has changed or otherwise accessed the data content object.

The message column may be configured to collect and present messages sent in association with files or workspaces relevant to the user accessing the dashboard interface . For some embodiments the messages present may include those sent through an internal messages system or those sent through external communication means. Examples of external communications means can include e mail instant chat messaging mobile text messaging or messaging through a social network e.g. Twitter . An example of an internal messaging system can include one where messaging is facilitated by referencing a message with an identifier that uniquely identifies a user in the workspace and or dashboard environment e.g. using the symbol with a username provided by the ASP system .

The task and reminder column may be configured to collect and present the user with tasks that have been assigned to the user through a workspace or other type of space provided by the ASP system . The task and reminder column may be further configured to collect and present the user with reminder relating to data content objects relevant to the user. According to some embodiments any data content object accessible through a workspace can be associated with a task or a reminder and such tasks and reminders can be presented through the task and reminder column .

The shared document column may be configured to collect and present documents shared with the user. Additionally the shared document column can present a variety of non document data content objects shared amongst users. A data content object presented in the shared document column may include one directly shared between users or one indirectly shared by way of the data content object s association to a workspace that is shared between users.

For some embodiments each column may provide event cards from an order based on relevance e.g. most relevant to least relevant . Additionally each column may provide a count indicating the number of event cards that need to be addressed by the user e.g. by way of a second action associated with an event card . By doing so some embodiments can enable or encourage a user to be more productive by keeping the count close to or at zero. As described herein as a secondary action a user may dismiss defer delete or accept an event card presented in the dashboard. In some embodiments the events presented in each of the columns of the dashboard can be filtered according to user preferences e.g. categories or user provided keywords.

The event card presents an event regarding Abel Cunningham sharing a file with four other users. In addition to providing the time elapsed since the event the event card permits a user reviewing the event to post a comment in association with the event.

The event card presents an event regarding users editing the BUDGET FY13.docx. The event card also indicates that it is the top event card on a stack of related event cards that have been collapsed e.g. due space limitations on the dashboard or user preference . The stack of event card may be related based on their association to a common data content object e.g. file . The event card may permit a user to expand some or all of the event cards e.g. See All in the stack of the event cards. The event card presents the stack of event cards when the event card is expanded.

The memory system is any memory configured to store data. Some examples of the memory system are storage devices such as RAM or ROM. The memory system can comprise the ram cache. In various embodiments data is stored within the memory system . The data within the memory system may be cleared or ultimately transferred to the storage system .

The storage system is any storage configured to retrieve and store data. Some examples of the storage system are flash drives hard drives optical drives and or magnetic tape. In some embodiments the digital device includes a memory system in the form of RAM and a storage system in the form of flash data. Both the memory system and the storage system comprise computer readable media which may store instructions or programs that are executable by a computer processor including the processor .

The communication network interface com. network interface can be coupled to a network e.g. network via the link . The communication network interface may support communication over an Ethernet connection a serial connection a parallel connection or an ATA connection for example. The communication network interface may also support wireless communication e.g. 802.11 a b g n WiMax . It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the communication network interface can support many wired and wireless standards.

The optional input output I O interface is any device that receives input from the user and output data. The optional display interface is any device that is configured to output graphics and data to a display. In one example the display interface is a graphics adapter.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the hardware elements of the digital device are not limited to those depicted in . A digital device may comprise more or less hardware elements than those depicted. Further hardware elements may share functionality and still be within various embodiments described herein. In one example encoding and or decoding may be performed by the processor and or a co processor located on a GPU e.g. an NVIDIA GPU .

As stated above various embodiments monitor operations performed by users actors or acting users on one or more data content objects to determine whether the operations are relevant to other users targets or target users and whether the relevant operations meet certain notification threshold conditions for notifying the targets of the relevant operations. In some embodiments the notification system obtains a notification threshold condition for a particular target and monitors the operations performed by actors on data content objects to determine relevance of each operation to the target and to determine whether one or more relevant operations meet the notification threshold condition. If so the notification system notifies the target.

In some embodiments operations on a data content object may include authoring actions such as reading saving deleting erasing editing creating publishing unpublishing etc. social actions such as liking sending sharing adding removing following unfollowing etc. organizational actions such as tagging deferring reminding searching trashing etc. and or workflow actions such as rejecting declining accepting approving assigning reviewing signing commenting resolving mentioning taking giving ownership etc. Other operations on a data object are also possible.

The notification system evaluates scoring factors associated with each operation to generate a relevance score for a target. In some embodiments the notification system may evaluate scoring factors for only certain types of operations such as authoring operations involved in collaborative editing of a data content object e.g. deleting modifying adding etc. and not organizational social and or workflow operations as described above. Scoring factors may include the identity of the data content object being interacted with the actor performing the operation the subsection subpart of the data content object being interacted with the number of operations with the data content object the relationship between the actor and the target the particular workflow to which the data content object belongs the organization enterprise to which the data content object belongs etc. Example subsections subparts of a parent data content object may include a page slide sheet paragraph line word table row column cell header footer equation formula chart shape list table of contents link synthetic content objects and or the like. The term data content object herein is used to include subsections subparts of an parent data file. In other words a data content object may be a table within a document a slide within a presentation a paragraph within a document an image within a video etc.

Various relevance scoring techniques may be used to determine whether one or more operations merit generating a notification for a target. below describe an example relevance scoring system capable of generating a relevance score that indicates the level of relevance of an operation to a target. below describe a universal scoring system capable of scoring persons including actors data content objects and the edges interactions relationships therebetween. An access system may generate a person object graph capable of assisting with research data analysis etc. below describe an example environment in which the example relevance scoring system the universal scoring algorithm the notification system and the access system may operate.

Data storage may include local storage native to a client and or cloud based storage e.g. Dropbox Box or Google Docs capable of storing data content objects e.g. documents spreadsheets presentations images videos etc. . Data storage may include database server and or file server .

Data editors may include content management systems text editors video editors image editors spreadsheet editors etc. capable of interacting with data content objects. As noted above operations of an actor may include authoring actions such as reading saving deleting erasing editing creating publishing unpublishing etc. social actions such as liking sending sharing adding removing following unfollowing etc. organizational actions such as tagging deferring reminding searching trashing etc. and or workflow actions such as rejecting declining accepting approving assigning reviewing signing commenting resolving mentioning taking giving ownership etc. Example data editors may include native applications and or cloud based applications such as those supported by Google Docs. Data editors interface with data storage .

Clients may include any digital device such as the digital device illustrated in capable of cooperating with data editors and or data storage to enable a user to operate on interact with data content objects.

Relevance scoring system includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating a relevance score e.g. to assist notification system with determining whether to notify a target of one or more operations of an actor on a data content object.

Universal scoring system includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating importance scores of objects persons and the edges therebetween e.g. to assist access system with providing information to researchers data analysts etc.

Notification system includes hardware software and or firmware capable of evaluating the relevance scores generated by relevance scoring system against relevance threshold conditions to determine relevance values e.g. binary values relevant or not relevant or range values between 1 and 10 . Notification system evaluates the operations and associated relevance values against notification threshold conditions to determine whether to notify a target of one or more operations. In some embodiments notification system may be only interested in particular operation types e.g. authoring operations associated with collaborative editing of a data content object.

Access system includes hardware software and or firmware capable of presenting and navigating the importance scores of the data content objects persons and the edges therebetween. depicts an example a person object graph generated by access system . In some embodiments access system will generate a person object graph for a particular workspace e.g. for only the data content objects and persons involved in a single activity for a particular enterprise e.g. for only the data content objects and persons belonging to the enterprise etc. Access system may be used to assist a project manager to determine the most important person s involved in the project and the most important date content object s involved in the project. Access system may be used to assist an enterprise leader or consultant to determine the most important person s involved in the enterprise the most important activities and or the most important data content object s involved in the enterprise.

Scoring manager includes hardware software and or firmware capable of interacting with each of the other modules to assist in generating the relevance score. Scoring manager may apply weights to each of the scores from each of the other scoring modules to generate the relevance score. For example scoring manager may apply high impact weights to the scores generated by target to object relationship scoring module time distance scoring module object importance scoring module and interest scoring module . Scoring manager may apply moderate impact weights to the scores generated by target to actor relationship scoring module actor importance scoring module and action type scoring module . Scoring manager may apply low impact weights to the score generated by target location scoring module . It will be appreciated that the weights may be modified by curation module and or by machine learning module . It will be appreciated that scoring manager may be configured curated and or learn to increase and or decrease the weights of certain scores. In some cases scoring manager may be configured curated and or learn to ignore certain scores such as the target location score. In some embodiments scoring manager may be configured curated and or learn to add other scoring factors and or modify including remove existing scoring factors to assist in the generation of a more accurate relevance score.

Target to object relationship scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating a target to object T O score based on the relationship between the target and the data content object being interacted with. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the T O score such as the number of times and or frequency the target has operated on the data content object the recency since the target has operated on the data content object the amount of time the target has spent operating on the data content object whether the target created the data content object the importance of the data content object the size of the data content object etc. In some embodiments target to object relationship scoring module cooperates with time distance scoring module object importance scoring module and or actor importance module . shows example T O scoring in accordance with various embodiments.

Time distance scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating a time distance T D score. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the T D score such as the amount of time that passed since the target last interacted with the data content object such as the particular subsection subpart of the integral whole data file with a parent object of the data content object with any data content object belonging to the same workspace as the data content object with any user sharing the data content object with any user belonging to the same workspace and or the like.

Object importance scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating an object importance O I score. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the O I score such as the number of people that share the data content object the number of interactions with and or the frequency of operations occurring on the data content object the average median total score of the actors operating on the data content object the time since the last interaction with the data content object the total time all actors have spent on the data content object the total time all actors have spent on the data content object in a set time period e.g. week month etc. the total time all actors with a high importance score operated on the data content object etc. Notably the O I score may be associated with a subsection subpart of a whole data file. That is different sections of the whole data file may have different O I scores.

Actor importance scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating an actor importance A I score. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the A I score such as the total number of other users that the actor knows the position the actor holds in an enterprise the number of data content objects that is shared with the actor the number or frequency of operations that the actor takes the time since the last operation by the actor on the data content object the time since the last operation by the actor on any data content object within the same workspace as the data content object the number of data content objects the actor has created the number of data content objects that the actor has created within the workspace the number of data content objects that the actor has created within the enterprise and or the like.

Interest scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating an interest I score. Various scoring factors can be used to evaluate the I score including categorical likes dislikes workspace likes dislikes action type likes dislikes etc. Interest scoring module may obtain a schedule and or hierarchy of the target s likes dislikes and use the schedule and or hierarchy to generate the I score.

Target to actor relationship scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating a target to actor T A score. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the T A score such as the level of contact between the target and the actor the business relationship between the target and the actor the number of data content objects that the target and the actor share the number of data content objects that the target and actor share within the workspace to which the data content object belongs the number of contacts or frequency of contact that the target and actor have with each other the number of degrees of separation between the target and the actor the importance of the actor the number of important data content objects see object importance that the actor shares the number of important data content objects that the actor operated on during a set time period and or the like. In various embodiments target to actor relationship scoring module cooperates with time distance scoring module object importance scoring module and or actor importance scoring module . shows example target to actor relationship scoring in accordance with various embodiments.

Action type scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating an action type A T score. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the A T score such as an action identifier the action type and or the like. For example action type scoring module may use a prioritization schedule to generate the A T score. Action type scoring module may generate the A T score based on whether the action type is an authoring actions such as reading saving deleting erasing editing creating publishing unpublishing etc. a social action such as liking sending sharing adding removing following unfollowing etc. an organizational action such as tagging deferring reminding searching trashing etc. and or a workflow action such as rejecting declining accepting approving assigning reviewing signing commenting resolving mentioning taking giving ownership etc. . In some embodiments action type scoring module may value authoring actions more highly. In some embodiments action type module may care only about authoring type actions and may score the authoring type actions based on the authoring action type. shows example action type scoring in accordance with various embodiments.

Target location scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating a target location T L score. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the T L score such as the distance from the subject matter being discussed in the data content object the distance from the enterprise that generated the data content object the distance between the actor and the target etc.

Curation module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of enabling a user to curate various parts of the scoring algorithm e.g. to modify weights impact of the various scores from the various modules add additional scoring factors to the scoring algorithm modify including delete existing scoring factors in the scoring algorithm etc. Curation module may also be capable of enabling the user to provide feedback regarding the notifications being received. In some embodiments curation module may request the user to indicate binary feedback e.g. relevant or not relevant. In some embodiments curation module may request the user to indicate range feedback e.g. a relevance score between 1 and 10.

Machine learning module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of automatically modifying the scoring algorithm based on feedback and or user behavior. In some embodiments as the target receives notifications the target may provide feedback through curation module . In some embodiments as the target receives notifications the target may make various choices e.g. the target may navigate to the section associated with the operation read the notification before filing it read the notification before deleting it delete the notification without reading it etc. Machine learning module may use the target s feedback and or behavior to assist it in modifying weights of existing scoring factors identifying new scoring factors to add to the relevance algorithm modifying including removing existing scoring factors from the scoring algorithm and or the like.

Data capture module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of capturing e.g. intercepting retrieving obtaining requesting etc. the various scoring factors needed by the scoring modules curation module and machine learning module . Data capture module may capture scoring factors by monitoring at data storage operations on the various data content objects monitoring at data editors operations on the various data content objects monitoring at clients operations on the various data content objects retrieving scoring factors from history buffers that store past current operations occurring on the data content objects retrieving scoring factors from data storage retrieving scoring factors from data editors retrieving scoring factors from search engines retrieving scoring factors from enterprise systems requesting scoring factors from the users retrieving scoring factors from user devices retrieving scoring factors from social networks retrieving scoring factors from telephone carrier networks etc. Additional details of data capture module are described below with reference to .

In some embodiments scoring manager generates the relevance score according to the following formula Relevance Score f H T O T D I M T A A T L T L where H is a high impact weight M is a moderate impact weight and L is a low impact weight.

Action capture module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of monitoring at data storage at data editors and or at client operations on the various data objects retrieving scoring factors from history buffers storing the operations occurring on the data content objects retrieving scoring factors from data storage and or retrieving scoring factors from data editors . Example scoring factors that action capture module may capture include how many data content objects are shared between an actor and a target the number of operations and or frequency of operations that an actor and or target has operated on a data content object the time distances creator information associated with data content objects and or the like.

Relationship capture module includes hardware software and or firmware capable monitoring at data storage at data editors and or at client operations on the various data objects retrieving scoring factors from history buffers storing the operations occurring on the data content objects retrieving information from search engines enterprise systems and or social networks monitoring user activities at clients and or requesting information from the users etc. Example scoring factors that relationship capture module may capture include the number of users an actor knows the number of important persons that a user knows the position a person holds in an enterprise the level of contact between an actor and a target the number of shared contacts an actor and a target have the degrees of separation between an actor and a target and or the like.

Interest capture module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of monitoring at data storage at data editors and or at client operations on the various data objects retrieving scoring factors from history buffers storing the operations occurring on the data content objects retrieving information from search engines enterprise systems and or social networks monitoring user activities at clients and or requesting information from the users. Example scoring factors that interest capture module may capture include a general likes and or dislikes of a user.

Location capture module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of retrieving location information from user devices enterprises and or telephone carrier networks parsing data content objects and searching online maps for location information and or the like. Example scoring factors that location capture module may capture include the location of the target the distance between the actor and the target the distance between the target and the enterprise etc.

Scoring factors store stores the scoring factors captured possibly for a predetermined time or indefinitely to assist action capturing module relationship capture module interest capture module and or location capture module with determining various scoring factors involving historical changes statistical analysis and or the like.

Object importance scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating an object importance O I score in accordance with various embodiments. Object importance scoring module may be the same or similar as the object importance scoring module . Various scoring factors can be used to generate the O I score such as the number of people that share the data content object the number of interactions with and or the frequency of operations occurring on the data content object the average median total score of the actors operating on the data content object the time since the last interaction with the data content object the total time all actors have spent on the data content object the total time all actors have spent on the data content object in a set time period e.g. week month etc. the total time all actors with a high importance score operated on the data content object etc. Notably the O I score may be for a subsection subpart of a whole data file. That is different sections of the whole data file may have different O I scores.

Person importance scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating an actor importance P I score. Person importance scoring module may be the same or similar to actor importance scoring module although not based on a particular operation currently being performed by an actor . Various scoring factors can be used to generate the P I score such as the total number of other users that the actor knows the position the actor holds in an enterprise the number of data content objects that is shared with the actor the number or frequency of operations that the actor takes the time since the last operation by the actor on the data content object the time since the last operation by the actor on any data content object within the same workspace as the data content object the number of data content objects the actor has created the number of data content objects that the actor has created within the workspace the number of data content objects that the actor has created within the enterprise and or the like.

Edge scoring module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of generating an edge E score. Various scoring factors can be used to generate the E score such as the number or frequency of operations occurring therebetween e.g. between a person and an data content object between two persons and or between two data content objects the number or frequency of operations occurring therebetween during a set time period the average median total score of the actions therebetween the time since the last action therebetween person object locations interest therebetween etc.

Score store stores the scores generated by object importance scoring module person importance scoring module and edge scoring module .

Data analytics module includes hardware software and or firmware capable of analyzing the scores e.g. to generate the person object graph of to help identify most important persons most important objects most important relationships therebetween etc.

The above described functions and components can be comprised of instructions that are stored on a storage medium such as a computer readable medium. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processor. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage medium are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with some embodiments. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage medium.

Various embodiments are described herein as examples. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made and other embodiments can be used without departing from the broader scope of the invention s presented herein. These and other variations upon the exemplary embodiments are intended to be covered by the present invention s .

