---

title: Methods and associated neural prosthetic devices for bridging brain areas to improve function
abstract: Methods for bridging brain sites between which there is substantially no effective communication, and associated neural prosthetic devices, are provided. A neural spike in a first neural site in a subject is detected, and a stimulus to a second neural site in the subject is delivered within a defined period of time after the detection of the neural spike, wherein there is substantially no effective communication between the first and second neural sites. The method forms an artificial bridge between the two neural sites, and establishes lasting communication between the two sites. The present disclosure provides, among other things, a neural prosthetic device comprising an integrated circuit that comprises a recording front-end comprising a plurality of recording channels; a processor unit; and a stimulus delivering back-end comprising a plurality of stimulation channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533150&OS=09533150&RS=09533150
owner: CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
number: 09533150
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150224
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 523 597 filed Jun. 14 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 543 593 filed Oct. 5 2011 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. W81XWH 08 1 0168 W81XWH 10 1 0741 and W81XWH 10 1 0742 awarded by the Department of Defense. The government has certain rights in the invention.

To date brain machine interfaces BMIs have sought to interface the brain with the external world using intrinsic neuronal signals as input commands for controlling external devices or device generated electrical signals to mimic sensory inputs to the nervous system. A new generation of neuroprostheses is now emerging that aims to combine neural recording neural signal processing and microstimulation functionalities in a single device creating an artificial connection in the nervous system by converting neural activity recorded from one cortical area to electrical stimuli delivered to another cortical area spinal cord or muscles in real time.

The present disclosure generally relates to methods and associated neural prosthetic devices for bridging brain areas for the purpose of restoring or improving neurological function. More particularly the present disclosure relates to in one embodiment multi channel neural prosthetic devices and in other embodiments methods for utilizing a neural prosthetic device to function as a bridge between two neural sites between which there is substantially no effective communication.

The present disclosure provides neural prosthetic devices i.e. microdevices that successfully combine neural recording signal processing and microstimulation functionalities in a single device for closed loop operation. Further the present disclosure provides neural prosthetic devices that can operate autonomously and that convert extracellular neural signals recorded on one microelectrode to electrical stimuli delivered via another electrode in real time. In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure promote functional recovery after brain injury and are particularly suitable for reestablishing communication links between remote neural regions.

The devices and methods of the present disclosure may also be useful to provide activity dependent neural stimulation to induce neuronal plasticity for functional reorganization in an intact nervous system and have numerous applications such as restoring function after neuronal injury providing refined sensory inputs in neuroprosthetic systems or supporting closed loop therapeutic interventions for neuropathologies.

Accordingly in one embodiment the present disclosure provides a method comprising detecting a neural spike in a first neural site in a subject and delivering a stimulus to a second neural site in the subject within a defined period of time after the detection of the neural spike wherein there is substantially no effective communication between the first and second neural sites.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a neural prosthetic device comprising an integrated circuit that comprises a recording front end comprising a plurality of recording channels a processor unit and a stimulus delivering back end comprising a plurality of stimulation channels.

In yet another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method comprising providing a subject having a brain injury in which there is substantially no effective communication between a first neural site in the subject and a second neural site in the subject detecting a neural spike in the first neural site using a neural prosthetic device comprising a recording front end a processor unit and a stimulus delivering back end to deliver an electrical stimulus to the second neural site within a defined period of time after the detection of the neural spike and allowing the neural prosthetic device to provide an effective communication bridge between the first and second neural sites.

The features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art such changes are within the spirit of the invention.

The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing s will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific example embodiments have been shown in the figures and are herein described in more detail. It should be understood however that the description of specific example embodiments is not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary this disclosure is to cover all modifications and equivalents as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

The present disclosure generally relates to methods and associated neural prosthetic devices i.e. microdevices for bridging brain areas for the purpose of restoring or improving neurological function. More particularly the present disclosure relates to in one embodiment multi channel neural prosthetic devices and in other embodiments methods for utilizing a neural prosthetic device to function as a bridge between two neural sites between which there is substantially no effective communication.

In one embodiment a method of the present disclosure comprises detecting a neural spike in a first neural site in a subject and delivering a stimulus to a second neural site in the subject within a defined period of time after the detection of the neural spike wherein there is substantially no effective communication between the first and second neural sites. In some embodiments the detection of a neural spike and the corresponding delivery of a stimulus may be repeated continuously. As used herein effective communication refers to temporally correlated activity between neurons that is necessary for normal behavioral function. Effective communication can either occur due to direct physical connections between the neurons or indirect connections via intermediate neural structures.

As would be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art the absence of effective communication between two or more neural sites may be generally known based on for example available literature and experiments e.g. tract tracing neurophysiology or neuroimaging such as e.g. diffusion tensor imaging and resting state connectivity or by utilizing any other method known to one of ordinary skill in the art for determining the absence of effective communication.

In one embodiment the methods of the present disclosure may allow a neural prosthetic device to act as a communication bridge between two or more neural sites including sites in different regions of the brain. In some embodiments the neural sites may have substantially no effective communication. Suitable neural sites can be located in any region of the brain such as for example in a cortical region of the brain e.g. in motor cortex sensory cortex frontal cortex occipital cortex temporal cortex or parietal cortex corpus callosum subcortical areas e.g. thalamus hypothalamus limbic system basal ganglia amygdala hippocampus cerebellum and olfactory bulb and or tract. Further neural sites may be located in the spinal cord. Suitable sites outside of the brain and spinal cord include muscles. Accordingly when used in subjects that have a cortical or subcortical communication disruption which may be caused by an injury resulting from a stroke a traumatic brain injury TBI a neurosurgical resection a tumor epilepsy a spinal cord injury etc. the methods of the present disclosure may provide the subject with functional recovery in the affected area. Such functional recovery may include but is not limited to improved speech language comprehension executive function attention memory learning abilities motor abilities and sensory abilities as well as reduction in symptoms such as neglect depression spasticity tremor etc. In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure may serve to reduce symptoms of psychiatric disorders and autism spectrum disorders such as non verbal communication skills abnormal sensory perceptions etc. In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure may serve to improve function in various types of disconnection syndromes such as white matter dementia conduction aphasia disorders of consciousness developmental dyslexia tactile aphasia etc. In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure may serve to improve function in certain types of disconnection syndromes beyond those involving a focal injury such as Parkinson s disease. In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure may also serve as a guidance cue for regenerating or sprouting nerve fibers.

In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure also provide for a neural communication bridge in cortex or subcortical structures to alleviate functional disorders in idiopathic conditions i.e. when specific dysfunctional communication cannot be identified. In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure also provide a neural communication bridge in cortex or subcortical structures to improve function or behavioral performance in otherwise healthy brains. Such methods may be implemented using a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure.

Neural prosthetic devices suitable for use in the methods of the present disclosure will be further discussed in more detail below however such devices generally comprise an integrated circuit that comprises a recording front end comprising one or more recording channels a processor unit and a stimulus delivering back end comprising one or more stimulation channels.

In one embodiment a neural spike in a first neural site may be recorded using a recording electrode that may be implanted in a subject at the first neural site and externally interfaced with one or more recording channels of a recording front end of a neural prosthetic device. As would be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art with the benefit of this disclosure multi site recording electrodes may be utilized in conjunction with a multi channel neural prosthetic device so as to detect neural signals from a plurality of neural sites. Examples of suitable recording electrodes may include but are not limited to microelectrodes comprising silicon or tungsten with recording sites of iridium. Similarly a recording electrode may be externally interfaced with a recording front end of a neural prosthetic device in any suitable manner which may be temporary or permanent. In some embodiments it may be desirable to interface a recording electrode with a recording front end of a neural prosthetic device via a microconnector in a plug and play fashion so as to allow for disconnection in the event that the neural prosthetic device needs to be replaced or is no longer needed.

After a neural spike is recorded it is transmitted to a processor unit comprising a spike discriminator that identifies whether the neural spike is acceptable as a stimulus trigger signal for a stimulus delivering back end. In some embodiments a spike discriminator identifies acceptable neural spikes by using a spike discrimination algorithm which may utilize adjustable user set parameters. While one of ordinary skill in the art with the benefit of this disclosure would be able to determine suitable parameters such exemplary parameters may consist of a threshold level and a time amplitude window. Using this example an acceptable neural spike would be one that crosses the threshold level and passes through the time amplitude window. Furthermore in certain embodiments the multichannel recording capabilities add another level of rejection. Even if spike events are accepted based on the preceding criteria they may represent random neuronal activity that is not closely related to the function of interest. By requiring the preceding criteria to be met on multiple recording channels the user can further restrict triggering. This is accomplished by a decision making algorithm in the DSP unit. User set parameters can be adjusted to define the time window within which the multiple spike events occur.

In some embodiments it may be advantageous to adjust user set parameters to reduce or prevent false triggering caused at least in part by stimulus artifacts. After an acceptable neural spike is detected and the stimulus delivering back end stimulates a neural site an artifact from the stimulation may falsely trigger a neural prosthetic device and initiate a second stimulation cycle. In an effort to avoid this user set parameters in the form of a threshold level and time amplitude window in the processor unit may be adjusted to discriminate between stimulus artifacts and neural spikes. Additionally blanking the processor unit operation after spike discrimination also prevents false triggering.

If a neural spike or a combination of neural spikes is accepted as a stimulus trigger signal then the stimulus delivering back end will deliver a stimulus to a second neural site or to a plurality of neural sites. Accordingly a stimulus may be delivered to a second neural site using a stimulating electrode which may be implanted in a subject at the second neural site and externally interfaced with one or more stimulation channels of a stimulus delivering back end of a neural prosthetic device. Multi site stimulation electrodes may be utilized in conjunction with a multi channel neural prosthetic device so as to deliver a stimulus to a plurality of neural sites. As mentioned above with respect to recording electrodes examples of suitable stimulation electrodes may include but are not limited to microelectrodes comprising silicon or tungsten with stimulation sites of iridium oxide. Similarly a stimulation electrode may be externally interfaced with a stimulus delivering back end of a neural prosthetic device in any suitable manner which may be temporary or permanent. In some embodiments it may be desirable to interface a stimulation electrode with a stimulus delivering back end of a neural prosthetic device via a microconnector in a plug and play fashion so as to allow for disconnection in the event that the neural prosthetic device needs to be replaced or is no longer needed. A recording electrode may likewise be interfaced with a recording front end of a neural prosthetic device via a microconnector in a plug and play fashion. Furthermore a flexible interconnect for interfacing an electrode with either the recording front end or the stimulus delivering back end of a neural prosthetic device may be used in order to allow for some adjustability in microelectrode placement during implantation simplifying the surgical procedure.

In some embodiments the stimulation channel or channels of a stimulating back end of a neural prosthetic device may comprise current blocking capacitors to prevent any net dc current flow into the tissue contacted by a stimulation electrode potentially arising from semiconductor failure or charge imbalance.

In some embodiments it may be particularly advantageous to adjust the period of time between spike discrimination and stimulus onset. Such adjustability allows for patient specific operation for optimized performance. For example in some embodiments the time period between which a neural spike is detected and a stimulus is subsequently delivered may be 

In certain embodiments the stimulus delivered may be an electric stimulus that may be monophasic or biphasic. In some embodiments the stimulation may have an intensity of 10 mA e.g. 5 mA 1 mA 500 A 300 A 100 A and duration of about 1 ms. Typically current levels may range from 1 A to 10 mA depending largely upon electrode characteristics and pulse duration may range from 50 s to 1 ms e.g. 200 s . In certain embodiments a train of pulses may be delivered per each trigger ranging from 1 to 200 pulses.

In some embodiments the method of spike recording and stimulus delivery may be repeated for a set amount of time such that a new communication link or links between two or more neural sites are established during performance of the method after or both. For example the method may be performed for a period of 14 days during which time a neural prosthetic device creates an artificial bridge between two or more neural sites and after which time communication continues between the two or more neural sites wherein there previously had existed substantially no effective communication between the two or more neural sites. The method may also be performed for a shorter or longer period of time e.g. 8 days 5 days 30 days or 60 days .

In one embodiment the methods of the present disclosure may be performed utilizing any neural prosthetic device capable of detecting a neural spike in a first neural site and delivering a stimulus to a second neural site within a defined period of time after detection. Examples of suitable neural prosthetic devices that may be utilized in the methods of the present disclosure include but are not limited to those devices disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Nos. 2009 0105786 2007 0032738 2006 0173259 2005 0240242 2005 0119703 2006 0009814 2007 0032834 2007 0179584 2007 01123932 and 2006 0200206.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a neural prosthetic device which may be utilized in the methods described above comprising an integrated circuit that comprises a recording front end comprising a plurality of recording channels a processor unit and a stimulus delivering back end comprising a plurality of stimulation channels. The circuit is characterized as having a recording front end that is operably connected to a stimulus delivering back end such that a relevant recording of one or more neural spikes by the front end can induce one or more relevant stimulations by the back end. depicts a specific exemplary embodiment of a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure. Additionally examples 1 3 below describe a specific embodiment of a neural prosthetic device comprising an integrated circuit that comprises a recording front end comprising a plurality of recording channels a processor unit and a stimulus delivering back end comprising a plurality of stimulation channels.

In some embodiments a recording front end of a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure provides ac amplification dc input stabilization bandpass filtering and digitization to the recorded neural signals with fully programmable gain and bandwidth. Accordingly in some embodiments a recording front end may comprise a low noise amplifier LNA a highpass filter HPF a secondary amplifier and an analog to digital converter ADC specific examples of which are further discussed in the examples below. depicts an exemplary circuit schematic of a recording front end of a neural prosthetic device that includes a low noise amplifier a highpass filter and a secondary amplifier which also serves as an ADC driver. The ADC then converts the amplified neural signal into digitized form for further processing by the monolithic digital signal processing unit.

In some embodiments a processing unit of a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure may be a digital signal processing unit. In some embodiments a digital signal processing unit suitable for use in the present disclosure may comprise a multiplexer one or more filters such as digital highpass filters a spike discriminator and decision circuitry used to generate a stimulus trigger signal. A multiplexer may allow for a multi channel device to share the same processing unit. Upon determining that a neural spike is accepted as a stimulus trigger signal a spike discriminator may send a stimulus trigger signal to a stimulus delivering back end. depicts an exemplary digital signal processing unit comprising a spike discriminator.

In some embodiments a stimulus delivering back end of a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure may comprise in addition to a plurality of stimulation channels a stimulator timing control a signal level shifter and a digital to analog converter. As mentioned above in some embodiments the stimulus delivering back end may have a user adjustable time delay so as to deliver a stimulus at the desired period of time after neural spike discrimination. depicts an exemplary circuit schematic of a stimulus delivering back end of a neural prosthetic device.

In some embodiments a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure may also comprise a radio frequency RF transmitter and a battery. In those embodiments where the neural prosthetic device comprises an RF transmitter it may be used to transmit data to an external RF receiver. The data may consist of the neural signals and neural spikes on the multiple channels. Before transmitting the relevant data a data serializer may be used to convert the recorded or processed data on each of the channels into a serialization format that can be stored and transmitted. Additionally a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure may also be powered by a battery.

In certain embodiments the present disclosure also provides a system for monitoring and programming a neural prosthetic device as described herein. The system may comprise a link for transmitting neural spikes and device data an external receiver board that processes the transmitted data and receives and uses parameter data from a personal computer PC for programming a neural prosthetic device a digital data acquisition DAQ card that establishes a connection between the external receiver board and a PC a PC that stores the processed data and uses software to monitor and determine parameter data for programming a neuroprosthetic device.

To facilitate a better understanding of the present disclosure the following examples of certain aspects of some embodiments are given. In no way should the following examples be read to limit or define the entire scope of the invention.

A prototype chip was fabricated in 0.35 m two poly four metal 2P 4M CMOS as shown in measuring 3.3 mm 3.3 mm including the bonding pads. This example discusses the measurement results from benchtop characterization and acute biological experiments with rats.

The top plots in depict the measured frequency response and input referred noise voltage spectrum of the analog recording front end for three different bandwidth settings and with the midband ac gain nominally set to 60 dB. The low cutoff frequency could be programmed from 1.1 to 525 Hz whereas the high cutoff frequency could be adjusted in the range of 5.1 to 12 kHz. The midband ac gain was measured to be 51.9 57.4 59.9 and 65.6 dB when the G C HPF was bypassed. The gain dropped by 0.3 dB when the HPF was included in the signal path. With the bandwidth set to 1.1 Hz to 12 kHz the thermal noise level was measured to be 21 nV rtHz at 1 kHz. This level increased as the bandwidth decreased because the LNA input transistors carried less current increasing their thermal noise contribution. With the same bandwidth setting the total input noise voltage was measured to be 3.12 Vby integrating the noise spectrum from 0.5 Hz to 50 kHz indicating an increase of only 8.2 due to flicker noise. This led to a noise efficiency factor NEF of 2.68 for the LNA. The flicker noise corner frequency was measured to be 

A sinusoidal signal with varying amplitude and frequency was then applied to the LNA input and the signal to noise and distortion ratio SNDR was measured at the ADC output. shows the measured SNDR at 1 kHz versus input amplitude for the four available gain settings. Lower gain values provided higher input dynamic range whereas higher gain values provided better signal resolution. depicts the measured SNDR versus input frequency. In the frequency range of 100 Hz to 10 kHz for extracellular neural spikes the recording front end provided 41.8 dB of accuracy.

The top plots in depict the measured microstimulator output current versus its output voltage in the anodic and cathodic phases for four different DAC input codes. The stimulator output voltage could reach at least 4.68 V going toward 5 V and 150 mV going toward 0 V with a 5 V supply. To further examine the microstimulator functionality it was interfaced with a silicon substrate micromachined electrode with stimulus sites of iridium oxide IrO . depict the measured monophasic and asymmetric biphasic stimulus current waveforms delivered by the chip to saline via the microelectrode. The power consumption per channel was measured to be 3.5 W from 5 V when the microstimulator generated the biphasic waveform in at a rate of 33 Hz. Table 1 summarizes the measured performance of major circuitry.

In the first biological experiment a silicon microelectrode with recording sites of iridium was implanted in the somatosensory cortex of a rat s brain and externally interfaced with a single channel of the recording front end on the chip. The left plot in shows a 4 s snapshot of the extracellular neural spikes recorded wirelessly at the output of the ADC. In another test a tungsten electrode with impedance value in the range of 50 to 100 k was placed in the cortical motor area and externally interfaced with a single channel of the microstimulating back end on the chip to stimulate the brain with a train of 13 monophasic current pulses 90 A 192 s 300 Hz . The right plot in depicts the evoked electromyogram EMG signal recorded from the rat s neck muscle. The largest EMG spike appeared in 

Finally while the stimulation electrode remained connected to a single channel of the back end the multisite recording electrode was connected to all four channels of the front end in one module. The decision making circuitry was programmed to trigger ICMS whenever neural activity would be present on any two or more data channels. shows a 300 ms snapshot of the recorded data of each channel at the output of the digital HPF along with the corresponding spike discriminator output SDO and the resulting stimulus trigger signal. Two large stimulus artifacts were distinguishable on each channel. The first stimulation was triggered by neural activity on channels 2 and 3 whereas the second was due to neural activity on channels 2 and 4. Some recorded spikes marked by black arrows were not discriminated by the DSP unit due to blanking of its operation after discriminating the spikes that immediately preceded them. This can be alleviated by reducing the time duration of DSP blanking.

As seen in stimulus artifacts are used in this work to show that stimulation is occurring in vivo. However to address the concern of artifacts false triggering the microstimulator a time amplitude window discriminator is used as opposed to simple spike thresholding to discriminate between neural spikes and stimulus artifacts by proper adjustment of time amplitude window parameters. Blanking the DSP operation after spike discrimination also prevents false triggering the stimulator by the incoming stimulus artifact. Another concern related to stimulus artifacts is that any spike activity that occurs within the duration of the artifact cannot be detected by the system for triggering purposes. This is less of a concern for activity dependent microstimulation since we do not foresee a need to use every single spike in the system to entrain a neuronal population to another group of neurons. Nonetheless we are developing an integrated signal processing solution for real time stimulus artifact rejection which affords to retain signal information during each stimulation cycle. Such capability may be added to the DSP unit.

This section presents a noise analysis for the selected LNA topology and obtains a minimum NEF for a practical design given our technology parameters and supply voltage. shows a simplified schematic of the LNA and its core operational transconductance amplifier OTA for this analysis. We also model the transistor thermal noise current as 4 1 where K is the Boltzmann s constant T is the absolute temperature gis the transistor transconductance and is for a transistor operating in strong inversion above threshold and 1 2 for a transistor operating in weak inversion subthreshold in which is the subthreshold gate coupling coefficient with a typical value of 0.7. The transistor transconductance can be estimated as

To minimize the OTA input noise voltage Moperate in subthreshold to maximize gfor a given current level whereas Moperate in strong inversion to reduce their transconductances. Moreover the drain current of Mis selected to be much larger than that of Min the folded branch. This current scaling scheme helps improve the OTA noise performance by further increasing gand reducing g. Therefore neglecting the noise contribution by M 3 can be simplified as

According to 4 the OTA input noise voltage also depends on indicating that the current scaling factor should be selected judiciously. To that end we next investigate the effect of on the overall OTA transconductance G. In a similar way the analysis of the proposed circuit reveals the Gto be

Another important consideration in selecting is the sensitivity of bias currents to transistor mismatches in the OTA and associated biasing circuitry. Assume that I Iand Iare bias current deviations from their corresponding nominal values due to transistor mismatches. If Iand Iare assumed to be uncorrelated it can be shown that

For example for a value of 0.05 a 2 variation in Iand Icauses a 58 variation in I which might adversely affect the OTA operation and degrade its transconductance. In this example the minimum value of when LNA bandwidth is maximum is selected to be 0.091 for which Gis 98 of g and 2 variation in Iand Icauses only 32.5 variation in I. Table 2 tabulates the dimension current level and operating condition of each transistor pair in the OTA for optimum noise performance with the maximum bandwidth setting.

To compute the NEF we should note that the input referred noise voltage of the LNA is almost equal to that of the OTA given that the parasitic gate capacitance at the input terminals of the OTA is typically much smaller than C. The NEF can be calculated according to

Other embodiments of a neural prosthetic device might require 16 32 or even higher number of recording and stimulating channels resulting in higher power consumption and larger silicon area. shows a breakdown of the area and power consumption for the entire SoC including both modules. The core area of the SoC excluding I O pads is 2.6 2.6 mm of which 34 is occupied by the 1.5 to 5 V converter. In this work the converter can provide a maximum dc load current of 88 A for an output voltage of 5.05 V which allows an average stimulus rate of 500 Hz for simultaneous stimulation on all eight channels with maximum stimulus current given that the microstimulator dissipates 3.5 W per channel for such stimulation at a rate of 33 Hz. However with cortical neuronal firing rates of 

The power pie chart is generated assuming biphasic stimulation at a rate of 33 Hz anodic 94.5 A 192 s cathodic 31.5 A 576 s and recording bandwidth of 525 Hz to 5.1 kHz. Excluding the FSK transmitter the total power consumption is measured to be 375 W for two modules with the analog recording front end being the most power hungry circuit block. Based on simulation results if we reduce the LNA bias currents to half their current values all transistors and capacitors should also be sized down accordingly to maintain the same bandwidth we can save up to 29 and 20 in silicon area and power consumption of the analog recording front end respectively. Although this would increase the LNA total input noise by 41 to 4.8 V it is still less than the background noise of the recording site 5 to 10 V . Another effective approach to reduce the front end power consumption and silicon area is to reduce the successive approximation register analog to digital converter SAR ADC resolution to 9 bits. In the proposed design the input referred quantization noise of the SAR ADC V 12 Gain 2 is 0.8 Vfor a nominal gain of 60 dB which is much less than that of the LNA 3 V . Therefore reducing the SAR ADC resolution by one bit would not degrade the performance considerably. Further the power consumption of the secondary amplifier 17 of the total system power driving the capacitive network of the ADC can be significantly reduced as well by decreasing the ADC resolution.

This example presents experimental results from biological tests with anesthetized and ambulatory rats using a neural prosthetic device of the present disclosure. The experiments were conducted in the cerebral cortex of adult Long Evans rats in accordance with guidelines approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Kansas University Medical Center Kansas City Kans.

The DSP unit used in each module provided additional digital highpass filtering to remove any residual dc offsets or low frequency artifacts and subsequently performed real time spike discrimination based on threshold crossing and two user adjustable time amplitude windows. The digital highpass filter HPF used in the DSP unit had a programmable cutoff frequency of 366 or 756 Hz given a 1 MHz system clock. If a spike event was accepted on any channel the corresponding spike discriminator output SDO was activated after a programmable time delay 0 to 28.6 ms .

The decision circuitry then generated any logic combination of SDO 1 4 as a trigger signal for stimulation activation. Upon triggering the programmable stimulating back end delivered a charge balanced asymmetric biphasic stimulus or monophasic stimulus with passive discharge to the neural tissue. The anodic and cathodic current pulse amplitudes were 6b programmable from 0 to 94.5 A and 31.5 A respectively. With a 1 MHz system clock the duration of the anodic phase could be programmed from 0 to 240 s with a resolution of 16 s whereas that of the cathodic phase was programmable from 0 to 720 s with a resolution of 1 s. For monophasic stimulation the duration of the constant current phase was programmable from 0 to 1.008 ms with a resolution of 16 s. Passive discharge was performed after each constant current phase to drain the accumulated charge on the stimulation site via a 2b programmable resistor.

In constructing the head mounted microdevice one four channel module of the ASIC was used for spike triggered ICMS. Further in the nominal operating condition of the ASIC the bandwidth of the recording front end was set to be 525 Hz to 5.1 kHz and the cutoff frequency of the digital HPF was set to 366 Hz. The stimulating back end was also programmed to deliver a single monophasic current pulse duration of 192 s with variable amplitude followed by passive discharge upon receiving an external or neural based stimulus trigger.

A low power low voltage commercial microcontroller ST Microelectronics Geneva Switzerland programmed the ASIC during power up and then shut down to reduce the static power consumption. The ASIC checked the validity of the programming parameters using two 10b redundant codes. If both codes in the parameter data stream were equal to those hardwired inside the chip the Check signal was activated otherwise the ASIC sent an interrupt signal to the microcontroller to turn it back on for reprogramming. A new parameter data stream could be sent to the microcontroller from the PC via the external receiver board using a bidirectional RS232 asynchronous serial link. The data were saved inside the microcontroller EEPROM and then shifted into the chip. Once ASIC programming was successful the microcontroller transmitted an acknowledgment signal back to the PC.

The FSK wireless link in the microdevice could transmit either the full voltage record on one channel or spike discrimination events on all four channels to the RF receiver placed as far as 2 m from the rat. A 5 cm twisted wire was used as the antenna connected to one side of an external resonant inductor 33 nH capacitor 3.9 pF LC tank. These LC components resulted in an RF link frequency of 433 MHz given a tolerance of 5 in their values and parasitic contribution by input output I O pads wire bonds and PCB interconnects. The wireless recording of broad band neural data was limited in this example to a single channel due to battery lifetime considerations for supporting higher data rates. Nonetheless the raw data recorded on all four channels of the microdevice could still be accessed simultaneously using a wired link between the microdevice and the external receiver board. The wired connection also can provide the output voltage level on all four stimulation channels to monitor stimulation site impedance during long term experiments.

A commercial low dropout LDO voltage regulator ST Microelectronics Geneva Switzerland together with four external capacitors were used to isolate the power supply line of the sensitive front end recording circuitry from that of the rest of the system mainly the noisy digital circuitry and 1.5 to 5V converter. Given the non zero source impedance of the silver oxide coin battery 5 to 10 this scheme was critical to ensure robust reliable operation of the sensitive recording front end. Although the power supply rejection ratio PSRR of the recording front end was measured to be 65 dB this measurement is typically done with the input shorted to ground. As depicted schematically in the combination of the recording microelectrode capacitance Cand parasitic capacitors Cin the analog I O block contributed by electrostatic discharge protection circuitry and bonding pad created an additional signal path for the supply induced noise that can degrade the PSRR in practice. From the PSRR through I O parasitic capacitors could be derived as

Microelectrodes were acutely implanted in two spatially separated forelimb motor areas of the rat s brain that are reciprocally connected with one another. Specifically a micromachined silicon microelectrode with recording sites of iridium NeuroNexus Technologies Ann Arbor Mich. with impedance values of 2 to 3 M was implanted in the rostral forelimb area RFA within the premotor cortex and a tungsten matrix stimulation electrode FHC Bowdoin Me. with impedance value of 50 to 100 k was implanted in the caudal forelimb area CFA within the primary motor cortex. Each electrode was externally interfaced with a single data channel of the recording front end and stimulating back end on the ASIC. A connection to the animal tail was tied to the system ground and used as a reference electrode for both recording and stimulation. In the first experiment the CFA was stimulated at 2 Hz with a single monophasic current pulse 90 A 192 s see using an external trigger signal. shows three traces of the recorded data from the RFA depicting stimulus artifacts with duration of 4 ms and four neural spikes detected by the ASIC shortly after stimulation. shows the raster plot and peristimulus histogram of the neural response to ICMS for a total of 315 ICMS pulses depicting a clear increase in neural activity 7.5 ms after stimulation. This example demonstrates inter alia the system capability for simultaneous stimulation and recording the neural response to ICMS.

In a second acute experiment neural activity was recorded on all four channels of the ASIC front end to perform multichannel spike triggered ICMS. If a spike event was accepted on any channel the corresponding SDO was activated for 10 ms after a time delay of 5 ms. The decision circuitry was programmed to trigger ICMS whenever neural activity was simultaneously present on channels 2 and 3. shows the simultaneously recorded data on each channel at the output of the digital HPF along with the corresponding SDO and the resulting stimulus trigger signal during a 300 ms time window. Two large stimulus artifacts were distinguishable on each channel as a result of spike triggered stimulation when simultaneous spike events within a 10 ms window occurred on channels 2 and 3. The data in both acute experiments were recorded via the wired link.

Two micromachined silicon microelectrodes NeuroNexus Technologies Ann Arbor Mich. were chronically implanted in the RFA and second somatosensory area SII of the rat s brain for recording and stimulation respectively using standard neurosurgical techniques. The recording microelectrode had sixteen 413 miridium sites uniformly placed along the length of its 3 mm silicon shank. The stimulation electrode had sixteen 1250 msites uniformly placed along its 2 mm shank. The stimulation sites were also activated with iridium oxide IrO to further reduce the site impedance to 60 120 k . A stainless steel threaded rod was mounted through an opening in the skull and affixed to it with acrylic. As shown in the microdevice was mounted 1 cm above the rat s head and affixed to the skull using the threaded rod and nut in such a way that the rat could not reach the microdevice. The threaded rod was also tied to the system ground and used as a reference electrode for both recording and stimulation.

Spontaneous neural activity was recorded on two of the four recording channels Channels 3 and 4 . The top two plots in depict the data recorded at the output of the digital HPF within a 3 s window and the bottom two plots depict the superimposed time aligned spike waveforms that crossed the user positioned 20 V threshold level red dashed line . The accepted spikes indicated with blue markers in top and as dark gray in bottom plots also passed through the two time amplitude window discriminators solid red boxes whereas the waveforms in light gray were rejected by the spike discriminator i.e. not used for stimulus triggering .

The microdevice was programmed to trigger ICMS on all four stimulation channels using accepted spikes recorded on channel 4. Upon each trigger the microdevice delivered a single monophasic current pulse 30 A 192 s with passive discharge to stimulate the target cortical tissue. The DSP operation was also blanked for 28.5 ms after each spike discrimination i.e. neural spikes on channel 4 did not trigger ICMS during this period . shows the superimposed spike waveforms and corresponding stimulus artifacts from single pulse stimulation with spike stimulus delays of 5 and 7.5 ms. The data were recorded wirelessly as the microdevice operated autonomously from a single 1.55 V battery.

The recorded data from channels 3 and 4 corresponding to the spike stimulus delay case of 7.5 ms were further analyzed to investigate whether spike triggered ICMS induced any electrophysiological change in the cortical circuitry. This was intended to show the physiological effect of the stimulating electrode beyond simply showing the stimulus artifact. The top left plot in depicts a 34 ms window of the recorded data on channel 4 showing the trigger spike the resulting stimulus artifact and three other spikes that occurred during the DSP blanking period indicated by red markers . The middle left plot depicts the peristimulus histogram 1 ms bins during the DSP blanking period for 3600 trials. The trigger spikes occurred just prior to the start of the histogram. The histogram suggests that the neuronal firing rate after ICMS was lower than that prior to stimulation. A paired T test also confirmed that the reduction of the neuronal firing rate after ICMS was statistically significant with p

To determine whether the firing rate returned to baseline levels after the cessation of stimulation the effect of spike triggered ICMS over a much longer time scale was examined beginning 90 s before stimulation then during the 500 s stimulation period and for 410 s after stimulation see . The top plot depicts the measured stimulation rate versus time whereas the middle and bottom plots depict the mean neuronal firing rate on channels 3 and 4 respectively. The data were smoothed by applying a moving average with a 25 s time window. The dashed lines show the average level for each section of the plot in time. clearly shows that the neuronal firing rate not only decreases during spike triggered ICMS but also that it returns to the pre stimulus level once ICMS is terminated.

Further as expected the stimulation rate is slightly below the neuronal firing rate on channel 4 during ICMS because the spike events on channel 4 that occur during the DSP blanking period do not trigger stimulation. The reduction in spiking rate of channel 4 and to a lesser extent channel 3 is likely the result of activating horizontal connections that project from the point of stimulation to the recording site. These projections can innervate inhibitory interneurons that when activated would lead to a reduction of the activity of the recorded neurons.

Fifteen Male Long Evans rats 350 450 g were obtained from Harlan. At approximately four months of age animals were randomly assigned to one of three groups activity dependent stimulation ADS n 6 randomized open loop stimulation OLS n 5 or no stimulation Control n 5 . Rats were housed individually and were maintained on a 12 12 h light dark cycle. Rat chow was provided 3 5 body weight on a feeding schedule to promote compliance on behavioral tasks and was supplemented with rodent food pellets during the skilled reaching task. Protocols for animal use were approved by the University of Kansas Medical Center Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee IACUC and adhered to the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals National Research Council 1996 .

Each animal was put into a Plexiglas reaching chamber and a single banana flavored food pellet 45 mg Bioserv was placed into a shallow food well 2 cm from the front wall on an external shelf positioned 3 cm from the bottom of a 10 inchamber Withers and Greenough 1989 Bury and Jones 2002 Hsu and Jones 2005 . The opening of the chamber was such that only the left forelimb could be used for reaching. Prior to entry into the remainder of the study the animal was required to reach and retrieve food pellets above 70 success for three consecutive days. The percentage of successful retrievals was based on the number of successful pellets grasped retrieved and brought to the animal s mouth during a total of 60 trials. Probe trials occurred on Days 3 5 8 14 and 21 following an infarct within the forelimb motor area of the cerebral cortex and consisted of 20 trials with microdevice stimulation on and 20 trials with microdevice stimulation off.

Animals were initially anesthetized with ketamine 100 mg kg i.p. and xylazine 5 mg kg i.m. prior to being placed within a stereotaxic frame and given supplements of ketamine 20 mg kg i.m. during the surgical procedure as needed. A midline incision was made to expose the skull surface then a 5 mm trephine hole was made over the right hemisphere using stereotaxic coordinates to expose the CFA centered at 0.5 mm rostral 2.5 mm lateral relative to bregma. Two 1 mm burr holes were made over a secondary motor area the RFA and the hand area of primary somatosensory cortex S1 in the right hemisphere using corresponding stereotaxic coordinates 3.5 2.5 and 1.25 4.25 respectively . Three additional burr holes 0.625 mm were made for skull screws one along the lateral ridge on either parietal bone and one in the center of the interparietal bone. The dura was resected over S1 and RFA but left intact over CFA.

The RFA and S1 areas were isolated using electrophysiological mapping techniques. Burr holes over each area allowed up to 12 sites to be tested at 250 m resolution. To verify the RFA a 16 channel Michigan electrode NeuroNexus Technologies was inserted into the burr hole to a depth of 1700 m and intracortical microstimulation was delivered as a 40 ms train of thirteen 0.2 ms monophasic cathodal pulses delivered at 333 Hz at the rate of one train per second TDT . During stimulation the current delivered was gradually increased from 1 A to 80 A. Upon stimulation the animal was visually observed for evoked movements. Forelimb movements that were bounded caudally by neck trunk responses were considered within RFA. To verify S1 a Michigan electrode was inserted into the burr hole and the neural signal was amplified and fed into a speaker and a digital display. The left forelimb was palpated until the touching could be correlated with both the amplified sound of the neural activity and spikes on the display TDT . The hand area of S1 was defined by evoked responses that could be localized to cutaneous stimulation of the wrist hand or digit. Both RFA and S1 were found in each animal before proceeding with the cortical impact.

After defining RFA and S1 a controlled cortical impact was delivered to CFA using the Impact One stereotaxic impactor Leica Microsystems . The impact was delivered via a flat circular tip with a 3 mm diameter. The impactor tip was fully extended and then slowly lowered onto the surface of the dura. Contact with the dura was indicated by an audio signal triggered by a feedback sensor. The impactor tip was then retracted within the impactor arm and the arm was then lowered 2 mm. Once triggered the impactor tip accelerated at 1.5 m s extending 2 mm below the surface of the dura. The impactor tip remained extended for 100 ms then automatically retracted leaving the dura intact.

Following the impact skull screws were implanted into the parietal bones and a threaded rod was implanted into the interparietal bone. These were affixed to the skull with dental acrylic. A hybrid 16 channel chronic Michigan probe for recording was inserted into the area defined as RFA using a micropositioner. The probe and burr hole opening were then sealed with a silicone polymer Kiwk Cast WPI . The base of the probe connector was lowered onto the dental acrylic and fixed into place. An activated 16 channel chronic Michigan probe for stimulation was inserted into the area defined as S1 hand area and fixed into place in the same manner as above. Any remaining exposed areas were covered with the silicone polymer before suturing the incision. The microdevice was then affixed to the threaded rod with stainless steel nuts and spacers and its connectors plugged into those of the appropriate electrodes. Technical aspects of the microdevice were described elsewhere Azin et al. 2011a b but in short the microdevice was able to autonomously record from up to four of the 16 channels of the recording microelectrode located in RFA amplify and digitize the neural signals and employ a user programmable spike discrimination algorithm to trigger activity dependent stimulation pulses delivered to the microelectrode implanted in S1 hand area.

Two to four hours following the microdevice implantation a 1.55 V battery was inserted into the microdevice. An Omnetics connector leading to a custom built controller board was plugged into the microdevice and the microdevice was initially programmed to record on all four available channels. Signals from these four channels were recorded from the microdevice and routed through the controller board to a LabVIEW data acquisition card. The signals were monitored in real time through both software and an amplified audio signal from the controller board. The highpass filtered signal from one of the four channels was exported to MATLAB and loaded into a spike discrimination script within MATLAB . A threshold level was defined above the noise level of the signal and small segments of waveforms that crossed the threshold level were overlaid on each other at the threshold crossing point. Spikes were then defined by two user adjustable time amplitude windows with the priority of maximizing detection of observed spikes while avoiding noise and or stimulus artifacts. Once the spike discrimination parameters were defined they were imported into the microdevice programming software. Stimulation parameters were also set in the software to a 60 A current delivered pseudo biphasically with pulse duration of 192 s. For the ADS group stimulation was set to occur 7.5 ms following spike discrimination on the channel from which the parameters were derived. For the OLS group stimulation current and pulse duration were the same as for the ADS group and pulses were pseudo biphasic. However the stimulator was not dependent upon recorded signals in RFA. Instead the stimulation occurred independently throughout the post lesion period with inter stimulus intervals ranging from 35 to 200 ms. This range of inter stimulus intervals was derived from prior data using ADS and corresponded with the most common range of stimulation frequencies of the ADS group. Any individual inter stimulus interval and hence frequency of stimulation chosen was randomized equally across the range to more closely approximate the level of stimulation the ADS group received.

Finally the output was programmed to transmit the data through either a wired connection or a wireless connection. The microdevice was reprogrammed and additional recordings were taken to assess the spike discrimination parameters. The microdevice was then programmed to transmit the data wirelessly and the animal was allowed to move freely about its cage.

The microdevice consumed power at a level to necessitate battery changes once daily for ADS and twice daily for OLS groups. Each animal s microdevice was tested a minimum of once a day to confirm its functionality. Occasionally there was a discrepancy between spikes observed on the monitoring software and spikes actually being detected. When this occurred the microdevice was reconnected to the wired connection the stimulation was turned off and the activity was processed through the spike discrimination software. In order to maximize spike discrimination the threshold and or time amplitude windows were slightly adjusted to compensate for detection failures. If no spiking was detected the remaining channels were monitored. If there was signal on one or more of the remaining channels the stimulation trigger was moved to the most active channel. If no activity was detected on all four channels the microdevice was removed and the microelectrodes were tested with commercial electrophysiology equipment TDT . If the electrodes were still functional and the animal had not fully recovered from the injury a new microdevice was attached to the animal and reprogrammed as above.

During behavioral tasks the microdevice was reprogrammed so that one half of each behavioral trial was done while the microdevice stimulator was turned on and the other half was done while the stimulator was turned off. Control animals were given equivalent time and trials on the tasks. Except for signal maintenance and dead batteries this was the only time that the ADS and OLS groups were not receiving stimulation.

The highpass filtered neural signal was recorded at 35 kHz from either one or four channels wireless or wired connection respectively during all signal monitoring and behavioral trials using LabVIEW software. In addition all animals had multiple sessions where data were recorded during home cage behavior. The raw signal recording duration of any single trial was software limited to 45 min but the spiking time stamp data could be recorded for up to 24 hours. The neural signal data were converted from a LabVIEW file to a text file and analyzed using custom MATLAB software.

The results demonstrated a potent and statistically significant effect of ADS on motor performance after only 8 days of operation. By Day 14 post lesion performance in the ADS group was indistinguishable from pre lesion performance 70 with stimulation on based on linear mixed model intent to treat design . The improvement persisted at Day 21 post injury. In the ADS group performance in the stimulation on condition increased from 27 on Day 3 post injury to 39 on Day 5 post injury 53 on Day 8 post injury and 69 on Day 14 post injury. The improvement in performance was also evident in the stimulation off condition in the ADS group and was statistically significant on Days 8 14 and 21 post injury.

In contrast while there was some improvement in the OLS group statistically significant difference from control animals on Day 21 post injury effects were reduced compared to the ADS group. By Day 14 post injury performance was 45 and based on modeled data never exceeded 50 in either stimulation on or off conditions. Untreated control animals performed at 

Further there were substantial differences between the on and off states of the microdevice operation during behavioral testing . In the ADS group the animals were up to 13 better with the device stimulation on vs. off . These differences were evident in the ADS group until Day 21 post injury when on vs. off states were similar. In individual rats these differences were quite pronounced on specific days especially on Days 5 and 8 post injury. As an example in one rat on Day 8 post injury the difference between the on vs. off states was over 40 with twice as many pellets retrieved during the on state.

In the OLS group rats performed slightly worse with the stimulation turned on vs. off but this difference never exceeded 7 Day 3 post injury . However some rats performed substantially worse with the stimulation turned on vs. off Day 3 14 and 21 .

The results demonstrate inter alia that ADS between the spared premotor cortex i.e. the RFA and the somatosensory hand area can result in a rapid improvement in motor function by Day 8 post lesion and that the improved function persists through at least Day 21 post lesion. This is the first demonstration that ADS can be used to positively affect function after cortical injury.

One of the many advantages of the present disclosure is that in some embodiments it may provide for a cortical communication bridge allowing distant cortical areas with substantially no effective communication to be artificially linked after injury which may have widespread clinical application. The results shown in Example 3 demonstrate inter alia that somatosensory motor communication links that are disrupted following TBI can be restored by a microdevice of the present disclosure thereby promoting restoration of functional movements. It is possible that a microdevice of the present disclosure may also be applied to sensorimotor dysfunction after stroke. It is also possible that a microdevice of the present disclosure may also be applied to certain aphasic conditions after either stroke or TBI. Neuroimaging studies in humans have shown that the arcuate fasciculus connecting Broca s and Wernicke s areas in the brain is altered with specific types of training Schlaug et al. 2009 . It may be possible to use the methods and devices of the present disclosure to automatically aid in the reconnection of this functionally important communication link in the brain to restore language. In addition there are several neurological and psychiatric disorders that include what has broadly been termed disconnection syndromes that could be aided by the methods and devices of the present disclosure. In some embodiments it is also possible that a microdevice of the present disclosure may provide for a neural communication bridge in cortex or subcortical structures to alleviate functional disorders in idiopathic conditions i.e. when specific dysfunctional communication cannot be identified. Finally in some embodiments it is also possible that a microdevice of the present disclosure may provide for a neural communication bridge in cortex or subcortical structures to improve function or behavioral performance in otherwise healthy brains.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only as the present invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular illustrative embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the present invention. While compositions and methods are described in terms of comprising containing or including various components or steps the compositions and methods can also consist essentially of or consist of the various components and steps. All numbers and ranges disclosed above may vary by some amount. Whenever a numerical range with a lower limit and an upper limit is disclosed any number and any included range falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular every range of values of the form from about a to about b or equivalently from approximately a to b or equivalently from approximately a b disclosed herein is to be understood to set forth every number and range encompassed within the broader range of values. Also the terms in the claims have their plain ordinary meaning unless otherwise explicitly and clearly defined by the patentee. Moreover the indefinite articles a or an as used in the claims are defined herein to mean one or more than one of the element that it introduces. If there is any conflict in the usages of a word or term in this specification and one or more patent or other documents that may be incorporated herein by reference the definitions that are consistent with this specification should be adopted.

