---

title: Real-time playback of an edited sequence of remote media and three-dimensional assets
abstract: A video editing project includes multiple assets, such as animated three-dimensional geometries and streaming video clips. Assets are rendered during associated timespans in a timeline. Video clips are streamed from sources while the project is rendered, rather than in advance. Rendered video data is played in real-time during rendering. Rendering the project may further involve rendering assets in a three-dimensional space. Streaming video clip(s) may be mapped to a geometry. Effects or transformations may be applied the video clip(s) in real-time during rendering and playback. Non-destructive, non-linear editing techniques are described—edits are specified for assets without changing the assets at their sources or having to download and modify a working copy. The editor may support live editing of the project during the real-time playback. The video editor may be, for example, a web browser-based application requiring no direct software installation by the user, and streaming media from remote servers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09583140&OS=09583140&RS=09583140
owner: 
number: 09583140
owner_city: Batavia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151006
---
Embodiments relate generally to video editing and more specifically to techniques for editing sequences of media and or three dimensional assets hosted in remote locations.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

With the proliferation of smart phones digital cameras and other portable devices capable of capturing images and video an ever increasing amount of digital media data is being captured each year. Due to the limited storage capacities of portable devices much of this media data is either quickly discarded or uploaded to cloud based servers in largely unedited forms that are not ideal for sharing with others. Many cloud based video services offer server based editing tools for video uploaded to their systems though these services are typically quite limited and require extensive computing resources such as large video rendering farms on the part of the video service provider.

Some consumers store their media data on personal storage servers. Utilizing high power personal computing systems such consumers may even edit their media data using any of a number of non linear video editing software applications. However many consumers find the process of editing their video data locally to be cumbersome or lack a suitably powered system for editing their media data particularly if that media data is in a higher definition format.

Meanwhile for power users who wish to create highly customized media projects most video editing software applications are limited to a small canned set of special effects and animations. Those capable of higher levels of customization are often difficult to use and limited to supporting locally stored media in only a handful of formats. Such tools may also require long rendering times to visualize effects or large rendering farms to output video in a manageable amount of time.

Moreover many video editing software applications lack the ability to easily share and reuse media data in the cloud. For instance if a user wishes to create and share a video that includes clips from an Internet based media stream the media stream must typically be downloaded processed and re encoded which greatly increases the resources necessary to create and share the video.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Approaches techniques and mechanisms are disclosed for client based editing and rendering of media projects in a cloud based environment. According to one embodiment a video rendering application receives project data that describes a media project. The media project is comprised of among other elements multiple assets identified by the project data. Assets may be of various types including without limitation graphic assets such as animated three dimensional geometries and media assets such as video and or audio clips from streaming sources that stream data across one or more networks. A media project may itself be an asset that is to say a project asset that may be imported to and or rendered in another media project.

The project data further associates the assets with timespans in a project timeline. The project data may further associate the assets with a variety of other data such as spatial data hierarchical data rendering priority data or animation data. Based on the project data the video rendering application generates rendered video data in which the assets are rendered during their associated timespan. The rendered video data is generated while simultaneously streaming the video clip from the streaming video source and playing the rendered video data in real time. The video clip and the graphical asset are rendered in the rendered video data at least partially concurrently.

In an embodiment rendering the project comprises rendering the assets in a three dimensional space. The project data describes spatial relationships between the assets and those spatial relationships may change over time. The graphical asset may be an animated three dimensional model. The video clip is mapped to a geometry in the three dimensional space such as to an arbitrary surface of the graphical asset or to a plane and rendered as a texture of that geometry as the video clip is playing. In an embodiment rendering the project comprises seeking the video clip from the streaming video source to a timestamp specified by the project data and or applying image effects to the video clip while it is being streamed from the streaming video source.

In an embodiment a video editing application which may include the video rendering application includes graphical user interfaces for associating assets with timespans modifying and animating properties of assets and optionally laying out and animating assets within a three dimensional space to define and animate the spatial relationships. In an embodiment the video editing application also or instead includes graphical user interfaces for specifying edits to the video clip such as trimming operations or image effects without changing the video clip at the streaming video source or having to download and modify a working copy of the video clip the video rendering application in advance. This is done in a non destructive manner allowing the edits to be changed or undone without affecting the original video media. In an embodiment the video editing application may further support live editing of the project data during playback of the rendered video data such that edits are immediately viewable in the rendered video data without having to restart playback.

In an embodiment the video rendering application is a browser based application implemented by a web browser running purely in that web browser without requiring installation of any apps toolbars plugins or other additional software. Using scheduling logic described herein any arbitrary number of assets may be rendered by the browser based application. Rendering the assets may comprise for example utilizing hardware accelerated decoding of the video data based on a HTML5 live video stream of the video clip and or utilizing hardware accelerated processing of the graphical asset based on WebGL instructions to draw the graphical asset. The web browser may be executed by any type of client device including smartphones tablets desktop computers set top multimedia devices and so forth.

According to an embodiment a server system stores the project data and at least some of the assets. The server system may send the application code for the video rendering application to clients for execution e.g. as HTML based web pages or JavaScript application code. The streaming video source may be the server system or a third party server such as YouTube. The server system optionally provides a proxy server that filters and or customizes the flow of a video stream of the video clip based on various factors described herein.

According to an embodiment sequencing logic sequences the retrieval of assets from remote storage by intelligently pre cueing and buffering assets from the remote storage. The sequencing logic looks ahead in an animated sequence for assets that need to be retrieved and determines bitrates and playback times for those assets. The sequencing logic utilizes various metrics to determine how much each of the assets should be buffered at any given time based on predicted streaming data rates and seek times so as to ensure continuous playback of the project and its edited sequence and animation as the project is rendering.

In other aspects the invention encompasses computer apparatuses and computer readable media configured to carry out the foregoing techniques.

Inventive techniques apparatuses and mechanisms are described herein within the context of computer based video production environments. This section describes example aspects of some of these environments according to various embodiments.

As used herein video data is data that describes a set of image frames intended for display in a sequence. An image frame is a two dimensional array of pixels each pixel having specified color attributes. One manner of classifying different segments of video data is by the sizes of the image frames they describe with example classifications including standard definition e.g. 720 480 high definition e.g. 1920 1080 or 1080p and ultra high definition e.g. 3840 2160 or 4 k .

Raw video data refers to video data that specify color attributes for each pixel of each image frame. Compressed video data on the other hand need not specify color attributes for each pixel of each image frame but may rather include data from which the attributes of each pixel may be calculated. Nor does each image frame need to be described individually. Rather certain image frames may be described with respect to the differences between those image frames and other frame s in the video data.

Compressed video data may be represented according to any of a variety of encoding formats. Example encoding formats include without limitation H.264 or MPEG 4 Part 10 Advanced Video Coding H.265 MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 Ogg Theora WMV VP8 and VP9. A variety of container formats exist for storing encoded video data as data files or bitstreams. For instance common containers include AVI 3GP MP4 MPEG 2 transport stream Matroska QuickTime File Format WebM and ASF. This disclosure is not limited to any particular format for encoding or storing video data.

Video editors and video playback software may include logic for decoding compressed video data stored in some or all of these formats. Such logic may also be referred to as a codec. Video editors and video playback software may also or instead be configured to interface with decoder components provided by operating systems external applications and or hardware that implement logic for decoding compressed video data in some or all of these formats. Once the compressed video data is decoded the video data is in a raw or uncompressed format that may be manipulated re encoded and or driven directly to a memory such as a frame buffer from which the video data may be outputted to a display device.

A framerate is typically defined for a sequence of image frames indicating how long each frame is intended to be displayed before being replaced by the next frame in the sequence. Example framerates include 30 frames per second 60 frames per second 29.97 frames per second and so forth. However the video data need not necessarily always be played at its intended framerate. Video data may instead be played at different playback rates. Playing video data at a playback rate that is slower than its intended framerate is typically referred to as slow motion playback. Playing video data at a rate that is faster than its intended framerate is typically referred to as fast forwarding. Since a display may only be capable of displaying a limited number of frames per second the playing of video data at a rate that is faster than intended may involve skipping display of certain frames using various fast forwarding algorithms. Since a viewer may not wish to view all video data in a particular video segment portions of video data may typically be skipped using seek operations that seek the video data to a specific timestamp image frame or byte range. Performing a seek operation is often not trivial especially on remote storage and the amount of time needed to complete it represents a delay that must be accounted for in many operations involving streaming media.

The amount of video data that exists for a given amount of playback time is referred to as the bitrate of the video data. The bitrate is typically stated in terms of bits or bytes per second which is the number of bits or bytes stored within the video data to describe all of the frames that will be displayed in a second. Video data may have a constant bitrate or a variable bitrate. In case of a variable bitrate different time periods within the same segment of video data may have different bitrates. An average bitrate is the average amount of data stored per given unit of time over an entire segment of video data.

Techniques described herein may involve the rendering of graphic assets to generate video data. As used herein a graphic asset is data structure describing a two or three dimensional object or collection of objects. Any physical object or collection of objects may be modeled from cars trees and people to cities and complex landscapes. The data structure includes a model which is a mathematical representation of the appearance of described object s within a two dimensional coordinate space for two dimensional objects or three dimensional coordinate space for three dimensional objects depending on the dimensionality of the described object s . The coordinate space relative to which the object s of an asset are described may also be referred to herein as the object space. 

A two dimensional model may be for example a collection of vector graphics defining vectors such as lines or curves that lead through control points having fixed positions within a two dimensional space. Or a two dimensional model may be raster graphics which describe objects in terms of a two dimensional array of points such as a bitmap.

A three dimensional model typically describes the object as a set of interconnected points known as vertices having specified coordinates within the three dimensional object space. The vertices are connected by geometrical entities referred to as surfaces including without limitation triangles polygons lines curved surfaces and so forth. The surfaces may be shaded different colors and or decorated with using processes such as texture mapping height mapping bump mapping reflection mapping and so forth. For instance texture mapping refers to a process of mapping pixels described by a two dimensional graphic or model to a surface of a three dimensional object. Each surface may have its own texture. Alternative representations of three dimensional objects may also be used such as voxels.

Graphic assets may be generated in a wide variety of manners including programmatically through scanning or imaging mechanisms and or using animation modeling or computer aided design software. Examples of the many suitable data structure formats for storing graphic assets include without limitation 3DS Max Collada Blender Maya and Mesh.

A model may optionally describe animations of an object. An animation describes how the object s change as the object s move in a particular way. For instance a model of a human character may describe how the coordinates of the vertices change position over time as the human walks. For some graphic assets only a single fixed animation sequence may be defined for the asset such as a short repetition of steps in a specific direction. For other graphic assets the model may describe multiple ways in which the object may move which may be utilized and combined programmatically to produce a wide range of animations. For instance the model may describe an underlying skeleton with various control points. These control points may be movable and the model may define how the movement of these control points deform a visible mesh placed on top of the skeleton.

A model may also optionally describe materials for an object. A material is a set of lighting parameters or coefficients that define how a lighting model interacts with surfaces of the object. In particular ambient diffuse and specular coefficients for each color component R G B are defined and applied to a surface. These are effectively multiplied by the amount of light of each kind color that strikes the surface. A final emissivity coefficient may be added to each color component that allows objects to appear luminous without necessarily interacting with other objects. An alpha channel may also be present to control the transparency of an object.

Rendering a graphic asset refers to the process of converting the model to a two dimensional image. The rendering process typically involves a projection operation which determines how to the modeled object s would appear as a two dimensional image from a defined perspective. For instance a three dimensional graphic asset is projected from a three dimensional object space to a two dimensional screen space. The rendering process may also involve lighting operations which simulate how light from different light sources placed at various positions relative to the described object s would affect the appearance s of those object s . A graphic asset may define light sources and or light sources may be defined outside of the graphic asset. These light sources constitute a lighting model. A graphic asset may also define or references algorithms known as shaders that are to be applied to the model during rendering at the vertex geometry and other levels. The shaders may implement the lighting model and or a generate a variety of other effects through processes such as manipulating the colors of various elements of the model or adding new vertices or geometries to the model. A number of other operations may also be performed during the rendering of an asset.

Graphic assets may be laid out in a scene which describes spatial relationships between the graphic assets including location and size. For scenes involving three dimensional objects the scene is a three dimensional space often referred to as a world space or scene space and each asset is said to belong to a particular position in this space. Two dimensional graphic assets may also be placed within a three dimensional world space by mapping the graphic assets to planes or other geometries.

Animations may also be defined relative to the three dimensional world space. For instance an asset that depicts a car may be defined as moving from one end to another end. Animations may further be defined for non spatial properties. In other words the appearance of an object may change over time without the object necessarily changing shape or positions. For instance the blur strength of a filter may be defined such that a blur effect applied to an object changes over time or the cone angle of a spotlight on a scene may expand over time. Other animations may occur for example on account of changes to the lighting model or field of view of the camera from which the scene is being rendered.

Once laid out the entire scene may be rendered. Each asset within the scene is rendered as it would appear in two dimensions from a viewpoint defined for the scene taking into account the spatial layouts of all of the other graphic assets in the scene as well as the properties of the virtual camera. For three dimensional scenes this process may be viewed as involving four steps 1 rendering each texture of each graphical asset in a two dimensional texture space including applying any filters or image effects to those textures animated at the current time 2 rendering those textures within their respective three dimensional object spaces through mapping and or parameterization 3 rendering the graphic assets within the three dimensional world space using translation rotations and other transformations and 4 projecting the scene on to a two dimensional screen space from a particular viewpoint within the world space ie the virtual camera .

When animation s of the assets have been defined relative to a two dimensional or three dimensional space or when individual graphic assets are animated this rendering is performed for each of a series of points in time thus producing a sequence of image frames which may utilized as video data. Each rendered image frame is in essence a new scene reflecting changes over time to the appearances and or spatial layouts of the assets. Note that not all of the foregoing steps need be repeated when each image frame is rendered. For instances textures or graphic assets that do not change need not be re rendered for each image frame.

Rendering may be performed using a variety of software and or hardware components. Computing devices often comprise one or more graphics processor units GPUs optimized to perform some or all of the rendering. Rendering performed by a GPU is considered to be hardware accelerated rendering. A computing device may also or instead provide software based rendering through operating system components and or device drivers. Applications installed on a computing device can typically request that the GPUs and or software based renderers perform rendering operations through Application Programming Interfaces APIs exposed by graphics libraries such as Direct3D Open Graphics Library OpenGL WebGL and Vulkan.

According to embodiment the techniques described herein involve the use of video editors for generating and outputting video data based on inputted assets such as described above. The assets may include without limitation segment s clips of video data image data audio data other multimedia data text and or graphic assets. Generally speaking a video editor is an application that permits users to identify assets as input s specify arrangement s and or manipulation s of the inputted video data and output video data that applies the specified arrangement s and manipulation s .

A given set of inputs and specified arrangement s and manipulation s is referred to as a project. Project data describing the project is typically stored as one or more files or database records. For instance in one embodiment the project data is stored as a JavaScript Object Notation JSON file.

Generally the project data specifies a number of assets that are in the project typically by reference to location s where the asset data are stored though in some embodiments asset data may in fact be stored within the project data . The project data may also store various metadata describing an asset may also be stored such as an asset type asset length asset size asset bitrate edit s specified for the asset temporal location of the asset in the project spatial location in a scene project specified animation data and so forth.

A project is further considered to have a timeline consisting of a plurality of timestamps. The project data further specifies temporal relationships between the assets relative to the timeline. For instance the specified temporal relationships may indicate that one asset is to appear before another partially at the same time as another and so forth. The specified temporal relationships indicate when an asset is to appear and a duration of time for which the asset is to appear in other words a timespan relative to the timeline.

A video editor is typically a non linear video editor. The video editor includes interface controls for importing video clips graphic assets and other assets into the project either by reference or directly. The video editor may further include interface controls for associating these imported assets with different timespans such as drag and drop controls for placing the items on specific portions of a visual representation of the project timeline thus defining the temporal relationships between the assets. The video editor may further include controls for specifying manipulations with respect to various aspects of these items such as controls for trimming clips or applying image effects such as blurs or color corrections.

According to an embodiment the project data optionally describes spatial relationships between the assets within a two dimensional or three dimensional world space which may also be referred to herein as the project space as opposed to the object spaces . The project data may associate each asset with specific coordinates within a two dimensional or three dimensional coordinate system. The video editor may further include controls for editing and defining animations for these assets by which the spatial properties of and relationships between concurrently presented assets may change over time. The interface controls may further allow a user to specify lighting sources and image effects to apply to specific assets or to the project as a whole.

The interface controls may allow a user to define a viewpoint from which the project space may be rendered relative to the coordinate system of the project space such as scrolling controls panning controls and or rotation controls. The video editor may further include controls for defining animations for these assets by which the spatial relationships between concurrently presented assets may change over time. The interface controls may further allow a user to specify lighting sources and image effects to apply to the project.

For three dimensional project spaces the interface controls may allow a user to drag and drop video clips and other two dimensional assets within the space as two dimensional shapes such as planes. These shapes may be rendered from any arbitrary perspective just as any other asset. The imported video will be played on the shape as a texture over time. Thus for instance a video editor may allow a user to specify that a video should be rendered as if being viewed on a screen from an angle rather than directly on point.

The interface controls may also allow a user to drag and drop assets including media assets such as video clips on to certain surfaces of graphical assets so as to cause the assets to be utilized as textures for the graphical assets. Such surfaces may be referred to as media surfaces. A graphical asset may designate certain surfaces as being media surfaces capable of receiving media assets that will be played to those surfaces. For instance one graphic asset may model a three dimensional book such as a photo album under the light of a lamp. Different surfaces of the book might represent different photograph frames within the photo album and be capable of accepting video clips as inputs. When rendered the video clips would appear to be moving pictures in the book contoured to the surfaces of the pages. Lighting from the lamp and other visual effects applied to the book may also be applied to the video clips.

According to an embodiment a project may itself be an asset. Assets lighting viewpoints and any other project data from one project may be imported into another project in a number of ways. For instance the project may be imported as a single atomic graphic asset. Or all of the assets and project data within a project may be imported in such a manner that a user may modify the spatial and temporal relations between those assets i.e. merge one project into another . In an embodiment the project data for each project may be stored in a graph like structure to simplify integration of a project into another project. In an embodiment a graphic asset is stored in the same format as a project in other words a project is synonymous with a graphic asset.

In an embodiment an entire project asset may be texture mapped to a surface of a geometry in the same manner that video clips may be rendered to the surface. In other words an embedded project asset may be rendered as video data which is played to the surface of an object within the project in which the embedded project asset has been embedded. Image filters and other effects may be applied to the rendered project using any suitable texture mapping techniques.

The position of an asset marker within the timeline area relative to gridlines indicates a timespan in which the asset will appear in the video data output for the project including both a start time when the corresponding asset will first be rendered and an end time when rendering of the corresponding asset will cease. The timespans of different asset markers may at least partially overlap. In an embodiment there may be no limit to the number of assets that are presented concurrently. The timespans during which assets are rendered may be moved through various input such as drag and drop operations on asset markers . The timespan of an asset may also be shortened or lengthened by moving the boundary of its asset marker . A progress indicator indicates a current timeline position relative to gridlines that is being depicted in stage area .

Interface further includes a play button control that a user may select to instruct a video renderer to begin rendering the project. For instance the project may be rendered to a video file and or for display in stage area . The position of progress indicator may change as the project is being played and or rendered. Interface may optionally further include one or more trick play control buttons that a user may select to control the playback of rendered video data through trick play operations such as fast forwarding rewinding pausing changing the playback speed and so forth. Interface may further include an optional loop control that when selected instructs the video renderer to limit playback to a specified timespan within the project as indicated by timespan in timeline area . When loop control is enabled playback will repeatedly loop over this specified timespan.

Stage area optionally permits a user to lay out imported assets within a three dimensional project space. Graphics within the stage area represent imported assets along with their corresponding attributes and transformations including sizes positions rotations and appearances. Graphics may be moved and or rotated relative to each other through a variety of inputs such as drag and drop operations thereby changing the spatial layout of the assets within the space. In one embodiment an asset may be animated by placing its corresponding graphic in a first position at a first time in the timeline moving the progress indicator to a second time in the timeline and moving the graphic to a second position in the timeline. The asset may be rendered within the space over time as gradually moving from the first position at the first time to the second position at the second time by calculating interpolated transformations at each time. The stage area may further include zoom panning and rotation controls for changing the perspective from which the space is viewed and rendered.

In an embodiment the interface may further include controls for specifying various manipulations for the imported assets. For instance a right click on an asset marker or graphic may bring up a menu of various options for changing the presentation of its corresponding asset such as options for resizing the asset relative to the space trimming or dividing a video clip changing a color applying certain specified effects and so forth. The stage area may also include controls for specifying certain attributes that are relevant to how the space will be rendered such as lighting positions shading algorithms and so forth.

Interface further includes various controls for performing actions relative to the project as a whole including a new project button for starting a new project a save button for saving the project an open button for loading a previously saved project a delete button for deleting assets that are currently selected within interface an undo button for undoing a previously performed operation an upload button for uploading new assets to a server a texture button for specifying textures to associate with surfaces of imported graphic assets a model import or creation button for opening or directly creating new models and other scene elements to add to the stage area and a preferences button for launching a menu for changing project or application configuration attributes.

A video editor may of course feature a variety of other interface controls for defining a project. The examples given in and throughout this section are given solely as examples of functionality that may be provided by a video editor. Interfaces in other embodiments may include fewer or additional controls arranged in a variety of different manners.

A video rendering component is typically included or utilized by a video editor to render the project. Rendering the project refers to the act of applying specified arrangement s and manipulation s defined by a project to produce video data. More specifically rendering involves generating video data for the timeline described by the project in which assets specified by the project are rendered at times indicated by temporal relationships specified by the project and optionally in which the assets are depicted as being laid out within a two dimensional or three dimensional project space according to spatial relationships specified by the project.

The rendering typically produces video data of some kind. However the manner in which that video data is output may differ depending on the embodiment and selected rendering options. Rendering options may include for instance a video quality image frame size bitrate framerate and so forth. A project may be rendered to a file in which case the video data is saved to a data structure from which it may be played back by a video player at a later data. A project may also or instead be rendered directly to a display.

The rendering may further produce depending on the project audio data rendered based on various media assets that include audio elements. It will be understood that any video data described herein including both video data streamed from video sources and video data rendered for a project may be accompanied by audio data such as one or more tracks of audio data that are synchronized to the video data. Moreover standalone audio files may also be included in or rendered from a project.

In some embodiments including at least one web browser based embodiment the video editing and rendering applications described herein support both a non real time rendering mode that outputs a project directly to a file and a real time playback of a project as the project is being rendered on the client side which may render the project more quickly though potentially at a lower quality. Different interface controls may allow a user to select between the rendering modes. The non real time rendering may be performed on the client side or on the server side depending on the embodiment. In an embodiment the non real time rendering may be a frame accurate rendering whereas the real time rendering may not be entirely frame accurate in that a variety of shortcuts such as skipping frames or partial renderings may be utilized to ensure that the project is rendered quickly enough to be played in real time. However in other embodiments even the real time rendering may be frame accurate. In an embodiment the non real time rendering may use higher quality versions of assets to produce video data of higher image and or audio quality.

The rendering typically involves generating a plurality of image frames including audio data samples for the outputted video data each image frame corresponding to a different timestamp within the timeline of the project. Generating each outputted image frame may involve a variety of computational tasks. For instance the scene depicted by each image frame may be different on account of the temporal relationships between the project s assets changes in the spatial relationships between those assets within the project space over time animations defined by any of the assets that are graphic assets image frames within any embedded video assets changes in the viewpoint from which the project space is viewed changes in the audio characteristics of the project and so forth. Thus generating each new image frame may involve identifying or calculating the spatial layout of a new scene of the assets within the project and rendering that scene. The generating of a new image frame may in some embodiments be optimized so as to recognize when the appearance s of certain asset s or portions of the scene do not change between image frames and re using previous renderings of those assets within the scene rather than repeating the rendering of those assets.

A video rendering component may also be utilized in software applications that do not necessarily allow for video editing. Any application that utilizes a video rendering component to render a project including a video editor may be referred to as a video renderer. For convenience most of the embodiments describe the rendering of a project as being performed by a video editor that includes a video rendering component. However it should be understood that the described rendering steps may instead be performed by any suitable video rendering application regardless of whether the video renderer offers editing capabilities.

 Real time rendering or real time playback refers to the rendering of project directly to a display in such a manner that the outputted video data is played at or close to its intended framerate while the project is actually being rendered. A video renderer may employ some amount of buffering to achieve real time playback for example where a certain number of image frames are rendered or retrieved in advance of the currently playing frame and stored in a temporary high speed memory referred to as a buffer. The buffering ensures that playback remains smooth even if the rate of rendering individual frames is sometimes less than the intended frame rate. However for all but very short projects the concept of real time playback requires that the buffer be significantly smaller than the size of the entire rendered project so that the delay between a user requesting playback or seek operations and the performance of those operations is minimal. For instance in one embodiment an appropriate amount of buffering for real time playback might be five seconds worth of video data or less.

To achieve real time playback a video renderer may be configured to take various actions that reduce the quality of the outputted video data including rendering lower quality versions of graphic assets using lower quality special effects requesting and or displaying lower quality versions of media assets dropping less visible assets from view and so forth.

System comprises multiple client devices . A client device may also be referred to herein as simply a client. A client is a standalone computing device such as without limitation a desktop personal computer laptop tablet smartphone personal digital assistant gaming console set top box or multimedia device. A client comprises computing hardware such as one or more processors configured to implement a video editing application for editing video data. Although three clients are depicted there may in fact be any number of clients in system .

A video editing application may be a video editor such as described in the previous section. A video editor may more specifically be implemented for example by one or more processors executing one or more processes that implement software based instructions for generating and editing video data. In an embodiment the software based instructions take the form of web pages and or server based scripts that are executed by a web browser or browser engine component of a client . In other embodiments the software based instructions may also or instead take the form of compiled code or bytecode that is installed on each client such as code for a desktop application or mobile application. The software based instructions may be platform independent. Or separate versions of the software based instructions may exist for different types of clients or clients that run different types of operating systems.

In some embodiments different versions of the video editor having different capabilities may be executed on different clients . For instance there may be free or lower priced versions of video editor permitting only a subset of the functionality permitted by higher priced versions. Or certain clients may execute a thin client version of video editor e.g. a web based version that is more limited in functionality than a thick client version that is downloaded and installed from an application store. In some embodiments the video editor on certain clients may only be capable of rendering projects created by fuller featured video editors on other clients . In other words one version of video editor may in fact simply be a real time rendering web application or other application intended to allow a user to play projects created by other versions of video editor but not to create or edit projects.

In certain embodiments some functions of the client video editor may actually be performed at the server system described below.

System further comprises a server system coupled to clients by one or more networks such as the Internet. Server system provides cloud based services to clients . Server system may be for instance a server farm a cluster of computers a collection of virtual servers or any other set of one or more computing devices that collectively provide the services described herein. The cloud based services provided by server system include a variety of services to support the operation of video editors . The services may include for example video and asset hosting streaming processing and or rendering as described in subsequent sections.

For example server system may comprise one or more application logic repositories storing application logic executable by clients to implement various functionality of video editors . As used herein a repository may include one or more databases file systems or other mechanisms for storing electronic data. The application logic may be embodied in a variety of forms depending on the embodiment. For instance the application logic may include one or more web pages scripts or other interpreted code compiled code bytecode and or any other suitable form of instructions.

Server system may further comprise one or more application servers coupled to application logic repository via which clients may access and download the application logic stored therein. An application server may be for instance a generic web server or file server or a specialized application server. The application logic may be downloaded by a client entirely at once e.g. in the case of downloading an installable application or over a series of requests and responses e.g. in the case of a web application . The entire application logic need not be downloaded in advance of executing the video editor . Rather instructions for certain features may only be downloaded when they are actually needed. For instance a client may be configured to request specific scripts or web pages that embody logic for presenting certain menus or interface controls only when a user actually requests those controls. The application server may in some embodiments generate portions of the application logic dynamically based on various characteristics of a client and or a context in response to which a request from the client is received.

Server system may further comprise one or more asset repositories configured to store asset data describing assets including graphic assets projects and media data. The media data may include video data as described herein as well as image data and audio data depending on the embodiment. There may be separate asset repositories for different types of assets or all asset types may be found in a single repository . In some embodiments there may furthermore be separate asset repositories for different users groups of users categories of assets and so forth.

An asset repository may further store metadata describing each asset stored therein. For each asset the metadata may include without limitation a title description preview image s ownership data licensing information and one or more categories of genres. Moreover in some embodiments a number of versions of each asset may be stored in asset repository for different contexts such as different target platforms different streaming bitrates and so forth. For instance there may be both a high definition version and a low definition version of each item of media content. The metadata may describe which versions of the asset exist and where the version may be found.

An application server may be coupled to asset repository and configured to send various metadata from asset repository to clients . The application server may send data and or application logic to the clients that allow the clients to browse asset repository as a library folder structure or search asset repository as searchable database. For instance the application server may send a form or other code to client that causes the client to present the asset library portion of the example interface .

A client may request assets of interest from the application server either directly in response to a user having selected the asset from the library folder structure or searchable database or at some point during or prior to rendering a project into which the asset has been imported e.g. by selecting the asset in the library folder structure or searchable database . For instance a client may download and open a project file saved in an asset repository via application server . As another example in response to a request to render a project a client may request an asset that needs to be rendered in the project from application server . Depending on the embodiment the application server may send the requested asset to client as a downloadable file or the application server may redirect client to a streaming server that streams the data for the requested asset to client .

The assets stored in the one or more asset repositories may include assets uploaded by clients or other computing devices assets created by an owner of server system and or assets downloaded and licensed from other repositories. In an embodiment an application server may further be configured to receive asset data from clients or other sources over network and store the received asset data in asset repository . As another example video editors may be configured to save and upload project files created at clients to application server for storage in an asset repository . As another example certain clients may be configured to capture e.g. with a camera or otherwise store video data or images. Video editors or other software on clients may then be configured to upload the video data or images to asset repository . As yet another example certain clients may be configured to upload graphic assets created by scanning real life objects with one or more sensors at the clients and or graphic assets created or modified by modeling or animation software stored thereon. In at least one embodiment a video editor may include interfaces for creating or manipulating a graphic asset.

Uploaded content may be stored at least temporarily in the form it was uploaded. Uploaded assets may undergo pre defined or user requested processing by the application server such as conversion compression correction optimization or other operations. The application server may store the processed content as a new version that co exists with the original content in the asset repository or the processed content may be saved over the originally uploaded content. For instance application server may automatically create different versions of any uploaded video clip for different target contexts. Application server may also process uploaded assets to generate certain metadata. For instance a preview clip may be created for certain graphic assets or video clips. According to an embodiment graphic assets are all converted to a common format for downloading to clients .

In certain embodiments the operations described in this paragraph above can also be performed by the client side video editor including conversion compression transcoding correction optimization and other operations. These embodiments may include for instance certain embodiments where the video editor runs strictly in a web browser.

In some embodiments at least some of the assets in asset repository may be shared between different clients . For instance a client may upload a video clip and mark the clip as shareable with all other clients or with certain users or groups of users. Any user with whom the content has been shared may see the content in a library directory or search interface when the user is logged into a client . In other embodiments clients may only see contents that have been uploaded in association with a user that is currently logged in to the client .

In an embodiment assets may be designated as being for purchase. For instance an animator may upload graphic assets to asset repository and specify that the graphic assets be made available to any user who purchases a license to the content for a specified price. A preview of the graphic asset may furthermore be made available. An application server may be configured to conduct transactions with clients that request to purchase a license to the graphic asset. Server system may be configured to send the full graphic asset only to clients associated with user accounts to which the graphic asset has been licensed. Any asset may be made available for purchase including graphic assets media assets and project assets.

In another embodiment server system may be configured to generate video data to store in server system from projects created in video editors .

Server system may further comprise one or more streaming servers configured to stream video data and or other assets in the one or more repositories to clients . As used herein the act of streaming refers to the sending of sequences of data elements possibly including only select timespans or portion from an asset over time rather than in a batch in such a manner than the data elements may be utilized immediately upon reception rather than having to wait for the entire asset. For instance the streaming of video data may involve the sending of image frames or data representing groups of image frames from the video data in an order in which the frames or groups are played so that corresponding portions of the video data may be played immediately upon reception rather than waiting for the entire video data to be transmitted.

Video data or other data may be streamed from a source such as a streaming server to a destination such as a client . A bitstream or simply stream of the data is delivered from a streaming server to a streaming client using a transport protocol such as Microsoft Media Server MMS or Real Time Transport Protocol RTP . As an alternative to using proprietary transport protocols in an embodiment streaming server streams assets over the Hyper Text Transport Protocol HTTP using technologies such as HTTP Live Streaming HLS Microsoft s Smooth Streaming Adobe s HDS or Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP DASH .

In an embodiment the type and or size of an asset is used by a client or server system to determine whether to send an asset as a download from application server or as a stream of data from streaming server .

In an embodiment streaming server may be configured to process instructions from a streaming client using a control protocol such as MMS or Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP . Such instructions may include without limitation instructions to request new image frames skip a number of image frames seek to a specific enumerated image frame or associated timestamp or stream video data at a seek rate that is different than its playback rate. For instance streaming server may be configured to respond to a request for a specific byte range of a stream by seeking to the specified byte range and beginning streaming from that byte range.

In an embodiment certain types of streaming clients may be configured to continuously request and cache a video stream until a streaming server indicates that there is no more data in the stream even if the rest of the stream is not needed by the client . Most conventional streaming servers are nonetheless configured to always accurately report how much data remains in the stream. The streaming server by contrast may further be configured to respond to a request for a specific amount of data in the stream by sending only that amount of data and reporting that there is no more data left in the stream even if there is in fact more data left in the stream.

In an embodiment streaming server may be configured to transcode certain media data if requested by a streaming client . For instance a streaming client may request media data in a certain format or bitrate version that is not stored in the asset repository . Streaming server may thus transcode the media data and optionally store the transcoded content as a new version of the corresponding media asset.

Although depicted as logically separate from application server in some embodiments an application server and streaming server may both be components of a same server such as a web application framework.

Server system may further comprise one or more proxy servers that perform a variety of tasks such as filtering or performing intermediate processing of streams sent by streaming server or other sources. In an embodiment cross domain security restrictions that limit the sources from which assets may be streamed are enforced by certain video editors e.g. browser based implementations . To work around these restrictions clients may request certain contents hosted by third party sources via a proxy server rather than the third party source. The proxy server requests and retrieves the assets and then responds to the clients with the data the proxy server received.

Though many of the techniques are described with respect to embodiments that include a server system some of the techniques described herein may nonetheless be practiced in embodiments that do not include certain features of server system . For instance one or more of the application server s streaming server s or proxy server s may not be necessary in certain embodiments. In yet other embodiments no server system is required at all. That is some of the inventive techniques described herein can be performed entirely using components at clients without the support of server system .

System may optionally further comprise one or more third party servers from which clients may obtain content. The one or more third party servers may provide access to any type s of assets. For example one third party server may be a video streaming server such as YouTube. In an embodiment content streams from such third party servers may be utilized by video editors in the same projects as assets from the one or more asset repositories without the content streams necessarily being downloaded by processed by or even routed through server system . The third party servers may include streaming components with some or all of the features of streaming server and or file servers or web servers from which assets may be downloaded.

Also third party servers may also include searching filtering and metadata processing such as previously described for asset repository . In such embodiments video editors may also be configured to take advantage of this functionality through any suitable API.

Video editors may comprise a variety of components depending on the embodiment. These components may include among others an editor component configured with project creation and editing logic such as described in other sections interface components such as described in other sections a video rendering and or playback component such as described in other sections and one or more media handlers such as described in other sections. A video editor may also include a network interface component configured to send data to or request data from server system over the one or more networks .

In an embodiment the editor component interface components and video rendering components are coupled together in such a manner as to allow for editing of the project data while the project is being rendered and played in real time thus allowing users to see the effects of their edits immediately after making them. For instance the project may be rendered to a stage area of the video editor GUI. A user may drag and drop representations of assets into the stage area or a timeline area or move such representations around as the project is being played thereby editing various aspects of the project. Or the user may update options in a menu that affect attributes of the assets as the project is being played. The editor component immediately updates the project data to reflect the change. Any newly added asset is requested from the server system if necessary and the renderer begins rendering the asset as part of the project as soon as enough asset data has been received. Any changed asset attributes or scene layout changes are rendered immediately with those changes.

In an embodiment using interface components a looping timespan within the project timeline may defined. Rendering of the project may be looped through this timespan repeatedly as edits are received to allow the user to more quickly see the effect of changes on a specific timespan in the project.

According to an embodiment in order to optimize the rendering of a project for real time playback of assets from server system video editor includes a scheduler component . Scheduler component identifies assets needed for rendering a project and determines when to request the identified assets from server system relative to a timeframe in which the rendering component is rendering the project. In general scheduler optimizes the retrieval of assets from server system and storage of those assets at a client so as to ensure that the renderer can render the project efficiently enough to provide real time playback of the project.

The scheduler may schedule the retrieval of assets based on a wide variety of factors including the temporal location assigned to the currently playing asset in the project the temporal locations and timespans assigned to other assets in the project seek times for media assets the sizes bitrates and encoding attributes of the assets in the project a currently observed or history of observed bandwidths over network between client s and server system memory constraints processing constraints and so forth.

Some of the most common factors considered by scheduler when scheduling an asset are the bitrate of the asset the duration of the asset and the predicted streaming rate of the asset. Generally the scheduler schedules the asset for retrieval at a time such that if the asset is streamed at the predicted streaming rate enough asset data will be stored in asset cache by the time the asset is ready to be played to continuously sustain playback of the asset until the timespan of the asset has been completely played. The scheduler may be configured to add some default additional buffer time for retrieving the asset as well.

The scheduler may also be configured to take into account external considerations such as the bitrates and durations of other assets in the project the predicted streaming rates of those assets a maximum total bandwidth for the client and so forth. Moreover since the number of assets visible in the project at different times may vary the amount of bandwidth available for streaming an asset may change over time thus affecting its predicted streaming rate. The scheduler may also take such a consideration into account when scheduling the retrieval of an asset.

The actual streaming rate will be a function of a number of factors such as network topology network traffic server hardware and software client hardware and software and so forth. A variety of metrics may be utilized to approximate the effect of these factors on the streaming rate and thus estimate a predicted streaming rate.

According to an embodiment application logic is configured to track the amount of time between requesting a portion of media data for an asset from the server and successfully rendering that portion of the media data. From this information scheduler may be configured to calculate an actual streaming rate. Application logic may log the calculated actual streaming rates over time for the server and or asset. The predicted streaming rate of an asset may be a function of the average of the logged actual streaming rates for the asset and or for the server from which the asset is to be retrieved. The average may be weighted over time such that more recently logged streaming rates are weighted more heavily. The average may also or instead be weighted to particular contexts so as to weight more heavily actual streaming rates logged during the current time of day during the current day of the week while the client was in a similar network location or while the client was concurrently performing similar tasks. A standard deviation may be calculated for the actual streaming data rate and the average may be increased or reduced by a function of the standard deviation.

According to an embodiment scheduler may further calculate a predicted seek delay for an asset when determining when to begin streaming a resource. The seek delay may vary depending on not only the streaming server but also on a particular edit that was made to the asset. For instance a media asset that does not include a starting cut may require no seek time whereas when that same asset has a starting cut the asset may require a much higher seek time in order to cue the asset for the starting cut. Application logic may also collect historical metrics with respect to the seek delays for particular assets and servers. The predicted seek delay may also be a function of whether the streaming server source allows byte range requests and where those byte ranges start and stop. For instance if an edit to a stream starts at seventeen seconds into the stream but the server only allows seeking operations in the equivalent of thirty second byte ranges or does not allow byte range requests at all the seek delay must take into account the amount of time needed to stream the first seventeen seconds of the stream so as to cue the stream to the starting cut. The streaming server may announce requestable byte ranges in for example headers or other metadata in the stream or the scheduler may be configured to identify requestable byte ranges using any other suitable mechanism.

The predicted streaming rate and seek time may also or instead be a function of average metrics from other clients . Application logic may be configured to upload the metrics to the server system which calculates aggregated metrics based thereon to share with some or all of the other clients . Metrics may be aggregated globally for all clients and or contextually for subsets of similar clients such as clients on a same subnet or clients having a same Internet Service Provider. Clients may utilize both globally and contextually aggregated metric to calculate the predicted streaming rate and seek time.

According to an embodiment the scheduler may further be configured to schedule request for assets in such a manner so as to limit the amount of memory necessary to buffer the assets. At its simplest this may entail waiting to request assets until closer to when the assets are needed rather than requesting all of the assets when the rendering of the project starts. However scheduler may take a variety of other actions to reduce memory usage such as subdividing media assets into portions and waiting to cache each portion until a time closer to when the portion is needed.

According to an embodiment the scheduler may be configured to request lower quality versions of media assets for a period of time when scheduler predicts that the client will be unable to stream all of the required assets quickly enough to maintain real time playback while rendering the project. The scheduler may be configured with any suitable prioritization logic for determining which assets should be streamed at lower qualities and which version should be requested.

According to an embodiment the scheduler must also take into consideration whether an asset can be streamed or must be downloaded. If an asset is not streamable or if the scheduler is uncertain whether the asset is streamable then the scheduler must allow time for downloading the entire asset before any portion of the project that includes the asset may be rendered.

According to an embodiment only media assets are scheduled for retrieval by scheduler . Graphic assets are downloaded separately when imported into the project. However in other embodiments graphic assets may also be downloaded at render time.

According to an embodiment scheduler may also use metrics to calculate a predictive rendering time for certain complex image effects that may be applied to media data. Although many image effects may be rendered in hardware at real time more complex effects may need to be rendered in advance and thus that rendering time needs to be taken into account when determining when to retrieve an asset. Scheduler might also be configured to determine when there is not enough time to apply certain rendering effects and apply alternative image effects or no image effects in their place.

Optionally the scheduler may accept input that specify how the predictive streaming rate and seek delay should be calculated. For example three settings may be available normal optimistic or high and pessimistic or low . These settings will cause the predictive streaming rate and seek delay to be calculated normally optimistically or pessimistically. For example the optimistic calculation may assume that the client has a relatively reliable connection compared to most clients and thus weight the standard deviation differently or ignore certain metrics from certain groups of clients so as to produce a higher predicted streaming rate. As yet another option the scheduler may allow a user to explicitly increase or decrease the amount of buffering and or predicted streaming rates on a percentage basis.

According to other embodiments the scheduler may instead or further take into account a variety of other considerations when scheduling the retrieval of media assets. Some examples of these other considerations are described in other sections. Note that on account of the foregoing factors the schedule may not always necessarily request the media assets in the same chronological order in which they appear in the project for example a particular media asset with a lower streaming rate higher bitrate or longer seek delay may need to be scheduled earlier than another media asset that appears chronological earlier than the particular media asset if the earlier asset has a higher streaming rate lower bitrate or shorter seek time.

According to an embodiment techniques similar to those described above may be utilized for a reverse playback of the project. The project timespan is reversed and the video data is rendered backwards. If a media clip cannot be streamed in reverse the scheduler must be configured to buffer all of the media data in a clip before reaching the timespan when the clip is needed. Alternatively if byte ranges of the media clip may be requested directly the scheduler may subdivide the media clip into multiple clips at the byte range boundaries and schedule the subdivided clips to be requested from last to first as needed. A similar scheduling technique can be used to improve the smoothness of scrubbing the progress time locator through the project when the user desires merely to move to a specific time in the edited sequence and have as many intermediate times displayed correctly as possible during non real time playback.

According to an embodiment a video editor further comprises a streaming client component configured to request and receive asset streams from or send them to streaming server . The streaming client may be built into the network interface component or the streaming client may be a separate component. In an embodiment although network interface component may include capabilities of a streaming client a custom streaming client is implemented on top of or separately from the built in streaming client and configured with logic to manipulate the manner in which content is streamed from or sent to a streaming server or proxy server so as to optimize the real time playback of a project.

Client executes one or more processes referred to herein as a browser engine . A browser engine is typically the primary component of a web browser application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Google Chrome. A browser engine processes data and instructions to generate and manipulate presentation s of information referred to herein as a document s . As used herein the term document does not necessarily refer to a single data structure and may in fact include elements from a number of files or other data structures. A document also need not be a static presentation of information but may include interactive elements by which a user may manipulate the presentation and or issue commands to the browser engine .

A set of data and or instructions processed by a web browser in such a manner as to produce one or more related interactive documents is herein considered to be a browser based application. The depicted application logic is one example of many browser based applications that browser engine may be configured to execute. Application logic may be stored temporarily or permanently in one or more memories of client .

Browser engine is coupled to a network communications layer via which browser engine uploads and downloads instructions media and other data from sources on a network. In an embodiment browser engine may utilize network communications layer to request and receive application logic from a server such as application server in response to user input requesting that the browser engine visit a specified uniform resource locator URL associated with the server. The browser engine may issue a single request to download application logic or the application logic may be downloaded over the course of multiple requests that are responsive to the browser engine identifying resources referenced by the server s response to the initial request.

The browser engine is configured to render a document by instructing a GPU typically indirectly to manipulate pixels in a frame buffer in such a manner as to depict the current state of the document. The GPU then outputs the frame buffer directly to a display device. For instance the browser engine may be configured to issue instructions to draw text windows boxes graphics and other components of document to a graphical user interface GUI component typically supplied by an operating system executing on the client . The GUI component translates the commands into drawing instructions to send to a GPU for manipulating the frame buffer. GPU may further be utilized for other purposes beyond outputting a frame buffer to a display device. For example browser engine may utilize a graphics API and or a multimedia framework to send data to GPU for processing and read data back from the GPU . The GPU may furthermore be configured to render graphics data from graphics assets or media assets directly into data structures managed by the browser engine such as the canvas element described in subsequent sections.

The browser engine is further configured to process event messages from an event engine . Event messages may describe for instance input events such as the pressing of certain keys or combinations of keys on a keyboard the detection of a user touching or clicking an area of a display screen that corresponds to an interactive element in the currently rendered document timer related events messages from other application components and so forth. The event engine is typically coupled to input components that receive user input. The event engine may further comprise one or more layers in an operating system browser engine and or application logic configured to interpret that user input as input events. For instance a device level component may detect that a user clicked on a mouse button. A system level component may determine that based on a current context of the mouse device the mouse click corresponds to a particular screen coordinate. A browser level component may determine that the particular screen coordinate corresponds to a button element in a currently presented document and that a button click event has therefore occurred.

The data and instructions processed by a browser engine may take a variety of forms. One common form is that of data elements described in the Hyper Text Markup Language HTML . A browser engine typically comprises rendering logic that parses and interprets the HTML elements along with accompanying formatting instructions such as Cascading Style Sheets CSS as instructions for arranging and presenting information and interactive elements within a document.

A common form of instructions executed by a browser engine is that of dynamic client side scripting instructions such as JavaScript instructions. A browser engine typically comprises script processing component s such as a JavaScript engine or virtual machine that interpret and or compile such instructions and then execute the interpreted or compiled instructions in such a manner as to affect the presentation of information within a document. Scripting instructions may refer to rely upon and or manipulate various other types of data such as data structures formatted in an eXtensible Markup Language XML format JSON format or other suitable format.

According to an embodiment in the course of executing application logic comprising the foregoing types of data and instructions such as application logic a browser engine generates and manipulates a document object model DOM that represents a document. The document object model includes a hierarchy of elements also referred to as nodes that correspond to various components of the document such as sections textual elements images buttons hyperlinks and so forth. The elements may for instance correspond directly to HTML elements defined by tags in a web page or to objects created in JavaScript functions.

Based on the document object model the browser engine renders the document at least partially by sending commands to GUI component to draw the information and interactive items represented by the DOM elements on a display. Each DOM element may have various configurable attributes including attributes that affect the presentation of the element. Examples of attributes for a DOM element include screen or window coordinates at which the element are to be presented element sizes background or fill colors displayable text image data audio data and so forth. An element may or may not be visible in the presentation rendered by the browser engine depending on the element type and or the various attributes associated with the elements.

Further based on the document object model the browser engine identifies elements that are impacted by event messages from event engine and executes various instructions that are triggered by the event messages with respect to those interactive elements. The triggered instructions may affect the configurable attributes of existing elements and or add new elements to the document object model . Browser engine may therefore re render the document after executing the triggered instructions if necessary.

The document object model defines a programmatic interface by which each element is addressable. The programmatic interface defines a number of functions which may be performed with respect to each object depending on its type. Execution of these functions by browser engine may result in changing attributes of elements adding or deleting elements requesting new data sending instructions to other components of client and so forth. Instructions processed by browser engine including application logic may reference and trigger these functions using the programmatic interface. Browser engine may re render the document any time the elements within the document object model or attributes thereof change as a result of interaction with the programmatic interface.

Document object model may comprise a variety of element types most of which are not depicted for purposes of simplification. However among other types of elements defined by the document object model are interactive control elements . Through these interactive control elements application logic may implement any graphical user interface input mechanism described herein. Interactive control elements may be buttons hyperlinks text boxes graphics or other items within the document whose screen positions correspond to graphical user interface controls. That is a user may place a cursor stylus finger or other pointing device over the screen position of an interactive control element to submit input that will be processed by event engine typically resulting in an event message that is associated with the interactive control element .

Another common form of data processed by a browser engine is media data such as data representative of images video or audio. A browser based application typically instructs the browser engine to load URLs using media elements such as video elements audio elements or img elements. Such elements like any other DOM elements may be found in HTML based web pages and or added to the DOM dynamically via JavaScript. The media data may be loaded from both local i.e. file system URLs and remote URLs.

Certain URLs may request streaming media from streaming servers such as streaming server . The network layer is configured to continually send requests for portions of the media stream to such a URL until the streaming server indicates that the required portion of the media data has been completely streamed. As the media data is received the browser engine caches the media data in an asset cache in one or more data stores until the media data is no longer needed. The browser engine may begin rendering the media data stored in the cache as soon as the first portion of the media data is received or wait until it is instructed to play the media data. For instance when a portion of media data has been played the browser engine may delete that portion. Or the portion may be retained until aged out of the cache using a suitable caching policy.

DOM provides programmatic access to media elements . A programmatic interface is provided to control aspects of both media playback and streaming. For instance via JavaScript function calls on media elements application logic may instruct browser engine to start playback seek to a specific timestamp see how much media data is already buffered see how much media data has been played change the media source and so forth. Media elements may also be dynamically added and removed from DOM via application logic .

The browser engine may include various renderers for interpreting the media data and outputting raw media data. For example many modern browser engines include native support for decoding H.264 or WebM formatted video streams. In some embodiments the application data may include media handler components to perform various media processing tasks including decoding encoding and applying visual effects. In one embodiment application logic includes a first media handler for HTML5 streaming video that utilizes the browser engine s native support for H.264 and WebM data. Application logic also includes a second media handler for handling video in other formats. For instance the second media handler may be a JavaScript based implementation of a media handling library such as the open source FFmpeg project. The browser engine may render the media data to the GPU a canvas element a Scalable Vectors Graphic SVG element other software or any other suitable system.

In an embodiment the browser engine or media handler may send media data to one or more media frameworks for processing. These media frameworks may interpret the media data and output raw media data back to the browser engine or media handler or to the GPU . For instance an operating system on client may feature a suitable native media framework. Or a media framework may be installed on the client by other software. The media framework may in turn reference instructions from various modular software libraries for decoding different types of media and or be configured to send certain types of media data to hardware decoding components. In an embodiment a media framework may further be configured to process various filters or transforms with respect to inputted media streams such as resizing the media or applying special effects.

According to an embodiment the instructions processed by browser engine may include instructions for drawing lower level graphic elements such as lines and primitive shapes to a defined space within the document. This space is then rendered as a bitmap within the document. For example another element type depicted in document model is a canvas element . Canvas element corresponding to the HTML tag is a drawable region having a defined position height and width. Using instructions in JavaScript or another suitable scripting language application logic may instruct the browser engine to draw lines and shapes at specific coordinates within the canvas element. Canvas element is an example of a suitable drawable region element and other drawing region elements may exist in other embodiments. The stage area of may for instance be implemented by a canvas element.

Various interfaces for drawing within a drawable region may exist. These interfaces may allow drawing in a two dimensional space or a three dimensional space. In case of drawing in a three dimensional space the drawings are projected and then rendered into a two dimensional bitmap for display in the drawable region. Some interfaces allow the application logic to instruct the browser engine to draw within the drawable region of a document. In an embodiment rather than instructing the browser engine to draw within the drawable region a browser engine may include a graphics API by which application logic may issue drawing instructions directly to GPU . Though a variety of drawing instructions may exist generally the drawing instructions allow a user to create and draw geometries and create and draw textures on those geometries. When requested to do so by API the GUI renders the drawing to the canvas projecting the drawing to a two dimensional screen space if the drawing is three dimensional.

In one such embodiment the graphics API is the Web Graphics Library WebGL . WebGL is a JavaScript API for rendering interactive 3D computer graphics and 2D graphics within any compatible web browser without the use of plug ins. WebGL instructions allow for GPU accelerated usage of for example geometry shading physics image processing and effects. WebGL elements can be mixed with HTML elements and composited with other parts of a document or document background. WebGL instructions may include both control code written in JavaScript and shader code that is executed on a computer s Graphics Processing Unit GPU . In other embodiments other graphics APIs may provide similar functionality and may be utilized instead of WebGL.

Although browser engine may be utilized to execute a wide variety of application logic the depicted application logic is configured to implement video editing and rendering tasks described herein. Application logic constitutes an example of the video editors depicted in .

The application logic includes an editor component configured to create and manipulate projects as with editor component . Editor utilizes the interface controls and other elements of DOM to present project editing interfaces such as that depicted in and to receive input defining and manipulating project data . Project data may be stored in one or more local data stores at client such as data stores provided by the browser engine including but not limited to HTML5 or W3C web storage memory etc. Project data may also be downloaded from and synchronized with project data from a server system such as may be found in asset repository of .

The application logic further includes a renderer component that renders the project data . The project data references assets stored in an asset buffer and or downloadable or streamable from one or more servers. The application logic may instruct the browser engine to download assets into a asset buffer via network communications layer . Asset buffer may be found in the one or more local data stores of client . The renderer is configured to render the project data by rendering the downloaded and streamed assets as described in other sections.

In an embodiment renderer is optimized to utilize the other components of client such as the graphics API and multimedia framework in such a manner as to provide real time playback of the rendered project data . For example in an embodiment the graphic assets in a project may be described as drawing instructions to a 3D graphics API or other programmatic drawing interface. In other embodiments application logic may include code for converting data within a graphic asset to drawing instructions in a suitable programmatic drawing interface.

According to an embodiment renderer is configured to render media assets into a three dimensional scene using a combination of media elements and WebGL instructions. A video element is included in a web page or added to the DOM . The video element is hidden within the document using CSS formatting or other techniques. The source of the video element is set to a URL from which the corresponding media asset may be streamed. The browser engine begins caching the media data. Meanwhile WebGL instructions to draw a geometry are issued to the browser engine . The media element is then bound to the surface of the geometry as a texture and a command is issued to play the media data. From thenceforth whenever an instruction that requires rendering the texture on the geometry is processed the WebGL library is configured to automatically retrieve the currently playing image frame from the media data and render it to the texture. Hence as the texture is repeatedly rendered over time the media data will appear to be playing on the surface of the geometry even as that geometry moves rotates or is otherwise transformed or animated.

In an embodiment the application logic optionally includes a scheduler component . Scheduler is configured to coordinate the downloading and streaming of assets in the project as the project is being rendered in similar manner to scheduler .

In addition to the considerations used by scheduler in scheduling assets for retrieval scheduler is configured to identify browser based constraints on the streaming and storage of assets and to schedule assets for retrieval accordingly. For example a browser engine places security based or other types of limitations on the number of active media elements that may simultaneously exist on DOM at given time. An active element is an element that is at the time it is considered active currently streamable for streaming media assets or downloadable for other assets . These limitations may vary based on the browser engine or even the operating context. One browser engine might allow only one active media element on the DOM at a given time while another might allow eight while another might allow twenty.

In embodiments where media elements are bound to textures using WebGL if the number of media assets visible or playing audio at a certain time within a project are greater than the number of active media elements allowed on the DOM then either some media assets cannot be rendered or media elements must be managed and scheduled e.g. reused etc. to render a greater number of media assets than the allowed active DOM media elements. With the latter option in many cases all of the media assets within a project can be accommodated for by carefully scheduling media elements for example to be deactivated or removed from DOM when their corresponding media assets are no longer needed. That is once streaming media has been queued up within a media element it can be buffered and the media element may made inactive to allow for another active media element on the DOM . New media elements may then be made active on the DOM to request additional media assets as they are needed.

In some embodiments an alternative to making obsolete media elements inactive and activating new media elements may be to simply change the sources of the obsolete media elements . Since the effect of these actions are for the purposes of the described techniques the same changing the source of a media element shall be considered herein to constitute one way of deactivating a media element from the DOM and replacing the media element with a newly activated media element in the DOM .

As a result of the foregoing limitations application logic may be required to constantly add and remove media elements and activate and deactivate media elements during rendering of a project in order to support hundreds or thousands of edits in the project. Scheduler is thus configured to determine the amount of active media elements allowed on the DOM as well as which elements are currently active. If limitations are present scheduler is then configured to schedule the retrieval of media assets in such a manner so as to have no more than the limit of active media elements on the DOM at a single time. The scheduler may thus schedule deactivating media elements from the DOM and activating new media elements to the DOM as needed. The scheduler is configured not only to determine how far in advance an asset must be retrieved but also when there may be an available active media element to retrieve it with.

In more complicated cases the scheduler may support scheduling the retrieval of concurrently playing media assets even if only one active media element is available. The scheduler essentially subdivides each media asset into multiple clips and repurposes the available active media element to stream each clip from each media asset in alternation. For instance a first media asset and a second media asset may be playing concurrently. Rather than stream the entire required timespan of the first media asset into a media element at once the scheduler may schedule only a portion of the timespan of the media asset to be streamed into a first media element which is currently active. Once the data for the first portion is cached the first media element may be deactivated. A second media element may be added to the DOM and made active. A portion of the timespan of the second media asset may then be streamed to the second media element . Once the portion of the second media asset has been cached the second media element may be deactivated the first media element may be activated again and the next portion of the first media asset may be streamed to the first media element . The first media element and second media element may continue to be deactivated and activated in alternation until each portion of each media asset has been streamed.

Although the technique logically scales to any number of media assets as a practical matter the number of media assets in some projects may be too large to effectively stream all media assets on certain types of clients or certain types of browser engines while the project is being rendered for real time playback. The scheduler may be configured to predict when this may occur and prioritize which media assets to display at which times using any suitable prioritization algorithm. For example the scheduler may identify media assets to not request based on the projected screen size of the media asset when displayed or based on a user specified prioritization of the media assets or surfaces to which the media assets are bound.

In another embodiment during real time rendering and playback of a project scheduler may schedule a portion of the project to be rendered in a non real time manner into a media cache in advance of a time when that portion will be needed for playback. The portion may then be played from the media cache at the designated time during the real time playback. This may be useful for instance if the portion of the project is too complex to render and play in real time or if there will not be enough resources to render and play that portion of the project in real time but there are enough resources to render the portion while other portions are being played.

In an embodiment the application logic optionally includes a custom streaming client . While network communications layer may already provide a streaming client custom streaming client extends the functionality of the streaming at the network communications layer by for example redirecting certain streaming requests to a proxy server and or including certain parameters with a request that affect how much data the streaming server returns to the streaming client .

For example in an embodiment a browser engine by default may cache a certain amount of media data for a media element such as 50 MB of a 200 MB stream under the assumption that it is always good to cache as much media data of a playing media stream as possible. However for the purposes described herein it may be desirable to limit the amount of data cached for a media element . This may be because on account of edits or scheduling only a very small portion of video data may actually be needed from the video stream e.g. 5 10 seconds or 1 2 MB of video data or for other reasons. But because most streaming servers will continue streaming as much video data to a media element as possible assuming the stream has not ended eventually the cache for the media element will balloon to significantly more than 2 MB with the vast majority of the cached media data wasting both client memory and streaming bandwidth.

As suggested in previous sections a proxy server may be utilized to control how much streaming media data the media element receives and caches. To facilitate this behavior scheduler may be configured to recognize when there is a great difference between the amount of video data needed for a media asset and the amount of video data that may be cached inside the corresponding element without intervention. When the difference is greater than some threshold and or when it is necessary to constrain the amount of video data cached for an element to successfully schedule assets for real time playback the scheduler may instruct the streaming client to request a stream from a proxy server instead of the identified origin source. The scheduler may also indicate exactly how much data to request.

In response the streaming client is configured to send a request to the proxy server with several parameters embedded and optionally encrypted within a query parameter or HTTP request header the URL of the original stream and the amount of data requested. The proxy server requests the normal full amount of data from the origin source but limits the data it forwards to the streaming client to the amount in the embedded parameters of the client request. Assuming that not all of the required data is received in the first response the streaming client makes additional requests for data from the proxy server. For each forwarded segment of the stream the proxy server manipulates the response header from the source to indicate that there is less information left in the stream than the proxy server repeats. Once the requested amount of data has finally been streamed from the source the proxy server manipulates the last response header to indicate that no data is left even if data is in fact left to stream from the source. The streaming client seeing this header consequently ceases to request further data from the stream.

In an embodiment other forms of custom streaming clients may be utilized to perform other methods of limiting the amount of data streamed or to perform other streaming functions during either reading data from the server or writing data to the server.

Systems and illustrate only two of many possible arrangements of components configured to provide the functionality described herein. Other arrangements may include fewer additional or different components and the division of work between the components may vary depending on the arrangement. For example in some embodiments a scheduler custom streaming client asset queue graphics API multimedia framework or other component of system may be omitted along with any other components relied upon exclusively by the omitted component s . In other embodiments tasks performed on client based video editor may be performed instead on server system or vice versa.

In some embodiments the generating and sharing of edited video data may be greatly simplified using client side editing and rendering of media projects involving media clips that are streamed across a network. illustrate example flows for utilizing systems such as described above for these and other objectives according to various embodiments. The various elements of these flows may be performed in a variety of systems including systems such as systems and described above. In an embodiment each of the processes described in connection with the functional blocks described below may be implemented using one or more computer programs other software elements and or digital logic in any of a general purpose computer or a special purpose computer while performing data retrieval transformation and storage operations that involve interacting with and transforming the physical state of memory of the computer.

Block comprises opening a project. For instance the user may create a new project by selecting a control such as new project button . Or the user may select an existing project from a library of previously saved projects belonging to the user or shared with the user by selecting control open project button or by dragging a thumbnail representing the project from the media search view into either the stage or the timeline . In an embodiment the video editing application may download both a listing of projects and the project data for the selected project from a server such as server system .

As another example a user may receive or access an email social media post messaging system or other resource with a link for opening a project. Another user may have shared such a link and granted permission to view and or edit such project with the user. The link includes an instruction to load the video editing application such as the URL of the video editing application or a reference to a protocol that is understood by the user s operating system to require handling by the video editing application. The link further includes a URL or other identifier of an existing project which causes the video editing application to immediately load the existing project upon opening.

Block includes receiving input specifying a local media asset to include in the project. For instance the user may select a control for adding a new media asset to the project. The video editing application may then provide a file explorer or navigation tool by which the user selects a locally stored image audio track or video file to add to the project. In an embodiment the user may drag an icon or thumbnail representing the new media asset from the file explorer or navigation tool on to a timeline or staging area of the GUI so as to associate the new media asset with a timespan and or spatial location. However in other embodiments the user simply selects the new media asset and the new media asset is added to a default temporal and or spatial location from which it may subsequently be moved.

In an embodiment a file explorer or navigation tool may be provided externally to the video editing application such as by the file system or a video library tool. The media asset may be added to the project by dragging an icon or thumbnail representing the media asset on to the GUI. Or an option to add the media asset to a video editing project may be shown in a contextual menu while the media asset is selected. In this case selecting the option may cause performance of block as well as either opening a new project in block or displaying a menu from which an existing project may be selected.

Block comprises optionally uploading the local media asset to a server for storage in an asset repository or in other words uploading the media asset to the cloud. Some embodiments may require that local media assets be uploaded to the cloud before they can be rendered in a project. In at least one embodiment this step is necessary to avoid security restrictions in certain types of browser engines. Other embodiments may allow for the use of local media assets in projects without being uploaded to a server. Some such embodiments may nonetheless give the user an option to upload the local media asset to the cloud.

According to an embodiment block may comprise transcoding the media asset to one or more different formats. For instance the video editing application may compress the media asset on upload to reduce the upload size and or convert the media asset to an encoding format optimized for editing streaming and rendering such H.264 with optimal encoder settings. A variety of software and or hardware media components may be utilized at the client device to perform such a task. In one embodiment a Javascript based implementation of the FFmpeg open source library may be utilized for this task. As another example the server may be configured to convert the media asset to an optimized encoding format or to generate multiple versions of the media asset for use in different contexts such as high resolution and low bandwidth versions.

Block comprises storing a reference to the media asset in project data for the project. If the media asset is uploaded to the cloud the project data will generally include a cloud based reference to the media asset such as an asset repository identifier or URL so that the media asset can subsequently be streamed from the cloud when the project is opened on another client device.

Block comprises adding an additional asset to the project. The additional asset may be selected from media assets graphic assets or other projects. A variety of mechanisms may exist for adding the asset. For instance additional local media files may be selected per block . The video editing application may also provide a library browsing tool by which existing assets in a cloud based asset repository may be searched filtered selected and added to the project in similar manner to the adding of a local media file in block . The video editing application may also or instead include a control for directly inputting URLs of assets to add to the project. Each additional asset may be added at a different temporal location and or spatial location within the project or overlaid on top of another asset.

Block comprises storing data describing the asset in the project data. The data describing these assets may be similar to that stored in block . Or for certain graphic assets the project data may actually include the graphic assets. Flow may repeat at block or continue to block .

Block comprises receiving input s that temporally sequence the assets in a project timeline. As a result project start times may be specified for each media asset when the media asset will first be played rendered in the project. Furthermore the input s may specify at what point within the total duration of the asset playing of the asset should start and at what point playing of the asset should stop i.e. the clip starting and ending times or clip timespan . Such input may be received in a variety of manners. For instance assets may be linearly arranged in one or more project tracks within the GUI. A start time associated with each asset may then be calculated based on the sum of the clip times of all assets sequenced before the asset in the track assigned to the asset. Or an icon representing the asset may be dragged to a specific timespan in a timeline or locked to the timespan of another asset in the timeline. Or a starting timestamp may be inputted explicitly in a time field associated with the media asset.

If an inputted asset has a duration e.g. the duration of an animation effect the duration of the asset may be interpreted as the duration of the asset when the asset is laid out on the timeline. However the duration may then subsequently be manipulated through inputs such as described above.

Block comprises storing in the project data associations between the media asset references and their specified timespans in the project timeline. In embodiments where the media assets may be arranged spatially as well the spatial location and layout information associated with the media asset may also be stored. For instance a three dimensional coordinate corresponding to the origin of the media asset may be stored. Or a geometry to which the media asset is mapped may be stored in association with a reference to the media asset.

Block comprises receiving input s that specify one or more editing operations to perform with respect to assets in the project. This step is performed with respect to at least one media asset such as the asset uploaded in block or an asset added in block . One such editing operation may be a trim or editing cut of the media asset to create a media clip. For instance rather than rendering the media asset from the start of the asset a user may specify that the media asset is to be rendered from a certain start point or clip start point. Such an edit may be specified in a variety of manners. In one embodiment the video editing interface may depict a timeline of the media asset and allow the user to drag and drop a sliding clip start indicator to different timestamps on the timeline. In another embodiment the video editing interface may include controls for performing a streaming playback of the media asset. The user may click on a certain button to indicate a clip start time when the playback reaches the frame in which the user is interested. As another example the user may specify a clip start time by directly entering a seek amount to associate with the clip start time. Clip end times may be specified in similar manners.

Another editing operation may be to specify an image effect such as a blur or image correction to apply to the media asset before rendering the media asset. The image effect may be applied to the whole media asset or just a selected timespan therein. The image effect may also be applied to a scene of assets rather than just a single asset. In an embodiment the video interface may include a preview window to see the image effect applied to the media asset. For instance the media asset may be streamed from its source and played to the GPU along with applicable image effects instructions. The media asset is then rendered to a portion of the GUI for the user to see.

Block comprises storing in the project data editing data describing the one or more editing operations in association with the media assets to which the editing operations apply. Note that rather than applying the editing operation to the media assets directly and storing the manipulated media assets block comprises leaving the media asset untouched and merely storing enough data to reproduce the editing operation at a later date. For instance for trimming operations a clip start and clip stop time may be saved. For image effects a description of the image effect and any associated parameters may be saved. The process of generating and storing this project data is known as non destructive editing. The entire editing and rendering pipeline described in this document is architected and implemented in a fully non destructive manner.

Block comprises saving the project data. Block may be performed in response to explicit user input such as selection of the save button or block may be performed any time a user submits input that results in a change to certain aspects or any aspects of the project or at any other time that the application deems it appropriate to save the project data.

As should be clear the above functional blocks may be repeated many times and need not always be completed in the exact chronological order in which they are depicted. The flow may involve the performance of other steps known in the art that are not depicted for simplification. Moreover other editing workflows may include a variety of other elements not depicted and or lack certain elements depicted in . For instance the adding of a local media asset in step may be optional. Or no editing operations may be necessary in block .

In an embodiment certain portions of the above editing workflow and of other editing workflows described herein may be completed as the project is being rendered and played back in real time. That is assets may be added resequenced and edited simultaneously with the rendering and playing of the project in such a manner as to dynamically apply the changes to the project as it is being played in a stage or other viewing area. This live editing of the project data allows a user to immediately visualize changes. The playing may also be looped continuously over either the whole project timeline or just a user selected timespan thereof.

Block comprises opening a project in a video rendering application. This block may be performed in similar manner to blocks of . The video rendering application may be the same as the video editing application or a separate video rendering application. If the video rendering application is separate from the video editing application the video rendering application may present a streamlined GUI with controls for a smaller subset of tasks than the editor such as playback controls and sharing controls. If the project is opened in a video editing application additional elements of flow may also be performed prior to proceeding to the next block.

Block comprises receiving a request to play the project. For instance a user may select the play control button . In an embodiment this request is not necessary in that the video rendering application may be configured to begin rendering and playing the project as soon as the project is opened in block .

Block comprises identifying a sequence of assets to display. The assets at least include streaming media assets but may also include other assets described herein. The sequence is determined based on associated timespans specified in the project data.

Block comprises identifying amounts of data that need to be requested for rendering each asset. The amounts may have been pre calculated and saved in the project data. The amounts of data needed for media assets may need to be calculated based on factors such as the overall length of the media asset the trimmed length of the asset the amount of data that must be seeked through to cue the clip to the clip start time the average bitrate of the clip and so forth. Some or all of this data may be saved in the project data or certain aspects of this data may need to be requested from the source of the media asset during performance of this block. The amount of data may not necessarily be an exact number but rather may be an estimate. However if the same clip has been streamed to a client rendering the project in the past that client may have stored the exact amount of data streamed and other streaming or seeking metrics in the project data for future reference.

Block comprises estimating a predicted streaming data rate of each asset. Techniques for estimating a predicted streaming data rate are described elsewhere herein.

Block comprises generating a schedule of times relative to beginning playback of the project to begin streaming each of the assets. For instance an asset A may need to be requested two seconds before beginning playback whereas an asset B may need to be requested only one second before playback and an asset C may not need to be requested until a minute after playback begins. Generally the scheduling involves calculating times by which each asset should be requested in order to be ready for real time playback during the rendering of the project. However the scheduling can be quite complicated in projects with large numbers of assets.

Among other aspects the calculated times may be functions of the amounts of data to request how much of the data for a particular asset is being consumed for seeking versus being rendered in the project the bitrate of the clip the predicted streaming rate the predicted streaming rates of other media assets and the times by which those assets are needed the maximum streaming bandwidth available amounts of processing time needed to render certain types of edits on the media assets and so forth. In an embodiments the times are further calculated based on a maximum number of streams that may be concurrently requested on account of limitations such as the afore mentioned limitation of the number of media elements that may exist on a DOM. In some embodiments the scheduling may involve more complicated tasks such as determining when to add and remove media elements from a DOM determining when and how to subdivide the streaming of a clip into separate streaming operations to workaround limitations on concurrent streaming operations determining whether to send a streaming request to a proxy server instead of the original media source determining whether to request a low quality version of an asset determining whether to render an asset at all and so forth. Techniques for generating this schedule are described elsewhere herein in more detail.

Block comprises in accordance with the schedule requesting an initial set of one or more media streams. The requests may be sent in a variety of manners such as adding a media element to a DOM. The requests may include if supported an identification of a specific timestamp or byte range at which to start the streaming a specific version of the stream that is being requested or a specific track in the stream that is being requested.

Block comprises in accordance with the schedule at some point after block beginning the rendering and playback of the project. There may be a small delay between block and block in order to buffer a sufficient amount of data to ensure that the project can be rendered and played in real time.

Block comprises determining whether a next scheduled time to request a media asset has been reached. If not flow loops back to block to continue checking for the next scheduled time. If a scheduled time has been reached then flow proceeds to block to request the asset associated with the time in similar manner to block . The rendering and the playback of the project is being performed throughout the performance of these blocks. Moreover the streaming of certain media assets requested in block or previous iterations of block may be completed during performance of these blocks.

Block comprises ending playback of the project either at the end of the project timeline or in response to a command from a user.

The above process flow illustrates only one example of a process flow for rendering a media project and may involve other elements known in the art that are not depicted for simplification. Other flows may include additional fewer or alternative elements in varying arrangements.

In an embodiment the playback of the project may begin at any arbitrary point within the project timeline. The above elements are thus performed only with respect to the assets whose timespans are at least partially subsequent to the playback starting point and only with respect to that portion of each asset which is rendered subsequent to the playback starting point. The playback may also be reversed from any arbitrary playback start point in which case the above elements are performed with respect to assets that precede the playback start point and only to the extent that they precede the playback start point. In another embodiment certain portions of both the preceding and the subsequent assets from the arbitrary starting point are rendered in the above elements to allow continuous playback of the edited sequence when the user drags the progress time locator forwards and backwards i.e. scrubs the timeline progress locator . The playback may be paused and resumed at any time in which case the schedule may likewise be paused and resumed.

The playback rate may also be changed at any time during the project which may require a recalculation of the schedule from the timestamp at which the change in playback rate was initiated since the playback bitrate of each media asset is effectively multiplied by the new project playback rate. The recalculation may be performed relatively quickly and in many cases there may be little or no delay before resuming rendering or playback with the new schedule.

In an embodiment certain edits to the project during real time rendering and playback may also require that the schedule be recalculated from the current project playback point per steps such as given above. For instance the addition of new assets trimming operations and or complex image effects while the project is playing may all require that the schedule be recalculated on the fly so that the real time rendering and playback can continue without interruption.

In an embodiment the schedule may be saved in association with the project data along with various other data and metrics used to calculate the schedule. The schedule may thus be subsequently re used or optimized for future renderings.

Block comprises optionally receiving input attaching a media asset to a surface of the graphic asset. A user may for example click on a surface of the graphic asset such as a side of a cube. The user may then select a media asset to attach to the surface in a manner such as described with respect to blocks or of . Or as another example the user may drag and drop an icon or thumbnail representing the media asset directly on to the surface without first selecting the surface. An association between the surface and the media asset may be stored in the project data. In an embodiment editing operations may further be specified for the media asset as described in other sections. In other embodiments a project asset may be attached to the surface instead of a media asset.

Block comprises receiving input indicating a set of starting spatial data e.g. transformation being position rotation and scale of the graphic asset in a scene. For instance the user may use a drag and drop operation to change the spatial data of the graphic asset at specific coordinates in a two dimensional or three dimensional space. Or the user may explicitly input a set of coordinates. The GUI may then change the spatial data the graphic asset at the selected coordinates in the scene within the staging area. If a media asset was attached the rendered media asset may be shown mapped to the surface of the graphic asset.

Block comprises receiving a selection of a new project timestamp. For instance the user may slide a current timestamp or progress marker on a project timeline to a new position. Or the user may click on trick play buttons to jump a specified amount of time forward. Or the project may seek to a specific timestamp inputted by the user. If there are any differences in the viewable scene within the project between the previous timestamp and the newly selected timestamp the scene within the staging area may optionally be updated to reflect the changes. For instance if any animations have been defined or if any of the media assets are playing media streams these elements may be re rendered accordingly. This re rendering may require streaming at least a portion of any media stream s that are associated with the timestamp including that of the media asset attached in block if applicable so as to identify and render the image frame that should be visible at the newly selected project timestamp.

Block comprises receiving input indicating an ending spatial data for the graphic asset in similar manner to block .

Block comprises storing in the project data animation data describing an animation of the graphic asset from the specified starting spatial data to the specified ending spatial data. The starting spatial data is stored in association with the asset along with the timestamp selected in block . The ending spatial data is stored in association with the asset along with the timestamp selected in block .

Block which is optional comprises repeating blocks for one or more additional spatial data and timestamps so as to generate an interpolated path or other interpolated spatial data for the graphic asset.

The above process flow illustrates only one example of a process flow for creating an animation in a media project and may involve other elements known in the art that are not depicted for simplification. Other flows may include additional fewer or alternative elements in varying arrangements. Any suitable animation techniques may be utilized for defining animations in the described video editing application including more sophisticated techniques for defining spatial points along which an animation interpolation may be computed i.e. paths . As another example instead of specifying an ending time for the animation a user may simply specify a movement speed and direction.

In an embodiment upon defining an animation the video editing application may automatically play the animation to the user by for example returning to the starting timestamp for the animation and rendering the scene through to the ending timestamp for the animation one or more times. In an embodiment process flow may be integrated with other tasks such as sequencing media assets and defining edits to those media assets as described with respect to flow . The animations may be overlaid or otherwise incorporated into the same scenes as the edited sequence of media assets.

Block comprises beginning the rendering of the project based on the project data using scheduling and rendering techniques such as described elsewhere herein.

Block comprises identifying a timestamp associated with a graphic asset in the project data. Block comprises downloading the graphic asset. Block may actually have been performed prior to rendering the project or performance of block may be scheduled so as to download the graphic asset as the project is being rendered.

Block comprises identifying spatial data e.g. a position for the graphic asset at the identified timestamp as stored in the project data. The position may be for instance a coordinate within a two dimensional or three dimensional scene.

Block comprises identifying WebGL instructions to render the asset at the position identified in block . Any suitable instructions may be utilized including instructions to render surfaces of the asset to a texture space render the texture space in a world space and project the world space into a screen space. Other assets visible in the scene may also be rendered at the same time. The instructions may be stored in the downloaded graphic asset and or determined dynamically based on data in the graphic asset.

Block comprises identifying an ending position and timestamp for the graphic asset as specified in the project data. Block comprises calculating a position for the graphic asset for each timestamp until the ending timestamp based on the starting position and timestamp and the ending position and timestamp.

Block comprises identifying and sending WebGL instructions to render the asset for each of the timestamps at the corresponding calculated position. The instructions need not necessarily fully render the graphic asset anew for each timestamp particularly when the graphic asset does not include any internal animations that would affect the appearance of the graphic asset over time. Of course various textures may need to be re rendered to apply lighting from new angles or to update the playing image frame of an attached media asset. As a consequence of block the graphic asset will appear to move across the scene from the starting position to the ending position.

The above process flow illustrates only one example of a process flow for rendering an animation in a media project and may involve other elements known in the art that are not depicted for simplification. Other flows may include additional fewer or alternative elements in varying arrangements.

Block comprises opening a project in a video rendering application as in block of . Block comprises identifying a timestamp associated with a graphic asset in the project data. Block comprises based on the project data identifying a media asset attached to a surface of the graphic asset.

Block comprises downloading the graphic asset. Block may in some embodiments actually be scheduled for performance after beginning the rendering of the project in block . Block comprises determining when to begin streaming the media asset using scheduling techniques such as described herein.

Block comprises beginning to render the project based on the project data using scheduling and rendering techniques such as described elsewhere herein.

Block comprises determining that a time to stream the media asset has been reached. The time may be exactly the originally scheduled time or the scheduler may adjust the time based on how quickly other rendered assets are being downloaded.

Block comprises creating an invisible media element that references the media stream for the media asset. For example the video rendering application may add a HTML5 video element to the DOM. This causes a browser engine to in block send a HTTP request for the media stream to a server that hosts the media stream or a proxy server. In block a HTTP response is received that contains at least a portion of the media stream. Block comprises the browser engine storing the data received in block in a buffer within a temporary memory. Blocks may be repeated until the HTTP response in block indicates that no media stream data is left to retrieve. Block comprises beginning the playing of the media stream at a clip start time which may involve seeking through the buffer if necessary. Block is performed at a time relative to the project timeline when the media asset is to be played.

Block comprises issuing WebGL instructions to draw the graphic asset. Block comprises binding the media element to the surface of the graphic asset using WebGL instructions. Block which may first be performed at approximately the same time as block comprises issuing WebGL instructions to render a scene that includes the graphic asset. Block comprises the browser engine causing the currently playing image frame of the media stream to be rendered and texture mapped to the surface of the graphic asset. Block comprises projecting the graphic asset and other elements of the scene into a screen space.

From block if there are still image frames within the video data that will include the graphic asset flow returns to block . Otherwise flow proceeds to block .

Block comprises deleting the media element when the media stream has completed or the graphic asset is no longer present thus freeing room on the DOM for adding other media elements to stream other media assets.

The above process flow illustrates only one example of a process flow for texture mapping a streaming media asset to a face of a graphic asset in a project and may involve other elements known in the art that are not depicted for simplification. Other flows may include additional fewer or alternative elements in varying arrangements.

In an embodiment an edited sequence of assets e.g. a project may be mapped to an arbitrary geometry instead of just a single media asset. In such embodiments a flow may comprise rendering the edited sequence using techniques such as described above but to a temporary buffer. The flow may further comprise reading the rendered video data from the temporary buffer possibly even as subsequent portions of the edited sequence are still being rendered and then playing the rendered video data to the surface of the graphic asset. For instance the temporary buffer may be bound to the surface in the same manner as the media element described above and then played.

Block comprises identifying a number of media elements that the browser engine executing the video rendering application will allow in the DOM. The number may be hard coded based on the browser user agent queried from the browser engine or determined programmatically by testing to see how many active media elements can be added. Block comprises based at least partially on the identified number scheduling media assets for streaming during the rendering of a project such as described in other sections. Block comprises identifying a first number of media assets to request the first number being less than or equal to the number of allowable media elements identified in block .

Block comprises adding media elements to the DOM for each of the first number of media assets. Block comprises using the media elements to request and cache media streams for the first number of media assets. Block comprises beginning the rendering of the project as described in other sections.

Block which may occur as blocks are ongoing comprises removing an active media element from the DOM after the streaming of the corresponding media asset has concluded. As described in other sections this may comprise simply deactivating the element such that the element is no longer streaming data. This may also or instead comprise deleting the element when the data cached in the element is no longer needed for rendering. Block comprises adding a new active media element to the DOM to begin streaming a next scheduled media asset. Flow may proceed back to block as long as additional media assets remain to be streamed and rendering is continuing.

The above process flow illustrates only one example of a process flow for scheduling the retrieval of streaming media assets and may involve other elements known in the art that are not depicted for simplification. Other flows may include additional fewer or alternative elements in varying arrangements.

Block comprises a client identifying a media asset whose media stream exceeds a clip end time by more than a threshold amount. For instance a media asset may be associated with a media stream that is ten minutes long but the project data may describe an edit to the media stream that trims the media stream to a clip ending point at three minutes. Certain browser engines if left to cache the media stream using their built in streaming logic would nonetheless stream and cache the remaining seven minutes of the media stream which would greatly increase the amount of memory that would need to be allocated to retrieve the stream.

Block comprises the client determining whether to request the media stream for the asset through a proxy server rather than the identified source. The determination may be made based not only on the fact that the media stream exceeds a clip end time but also based on the scheduling needs of the system. For instance it may not matter that too much data will be streamed if the client has plenty of time and resources to cache the data or if the media asset is the last asset in the project. It also may be unnecessary to request a stream from a proxy server if the original source is configured to honor requests to stop streaming at a certain point. In an embodiment a proxy server is only used when the media stream is hosted by a third party source.

Block comprises the client sending a request for the asset s media stream to the proxy server instead of to the original source identified by the media asset. The request includes a parameter specifying the URL of the media stream at the original source or any other suitable identifying data. The request further includes a parameter requesting to seek to a specified clip start point if relevant and a parameter specifying an amount of data that the client would like streamed from that clip start time. The parameters may be embedded in for example a query string or HTTP header. In an embodiment the parameters may be encrypted.

Block comprises the proxy server receiving the request. Block comprises the proxy server requesting the media stream from the original source. The proxy server may request that the original source seek to a point of time before the clip start time if seek requests are supported by the original source.

Block comprises the proxy server receiving the media stream from the original source. The media stream may be received in one or more responses from the original source. If the original source does not support seeking the proxy server may ignore any media data that precedes the clip start time if a clip start time has been specified.

Block comprises the proxy server manipulating header s of the returned response s to indicate that the media stream ends at the clip end time rather than at the actual end of the media stream. This may entail for example manipulating a parameter in each returned response that indicates how much data is remaining so as to subtract the difference between the clip end time and the end of the media stream. Or this may entail letting most headers pass through without changes but manipulating the header of the response that includes the video data for the clip end time to indicate that no more data remains in the stream.

Block comprises the proxy server relaying the response message s as manipulated to the requesting client. Block comprises the requesting client storing the media data in a cache.

Block comprises the client data determining whether any data remains for the media stream. If so flow returns to block . Otherwise the flow is complete.

The above process flow illustrates only one example of a process flow for utilizing a proxy server and may involve other elements known in the art that are not depicted for simplification. Other flows may include additional fewer or alternative elements in varying arrangements. In an embodiment the proxy server is configured to perform additional processing on the media stream including transcoding applying special effects and so forth.

According to an embodiment a method comprises accessing at a client device project data describing a media project that associates assets with timespans in a project timeline the assets including at least streaming media assets rendering at the client device video data for the media project the streaming media assets being rendered during their associated timespans in the video data as the video data for the media project is being rendered the client device streaming from a network streaming source first media for at least a first streaming media asset of the streaming media assets and playing the rendered video data wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.

In an embodiment the method further comprises concurrently with the streaming and the rendering of the video data for the media project playing the rendered video data in real time at the client device.

In at least some of the above embodiments the project data describes at least a first editing operation for the first streaming media asset and the method further comprises the client device dynamically applying the first editing operation to the first media as the first media is being streamed. In at least some of the above embodiments the first editing operation is an image effect. In at least some of the above embodiments the first editing operation is a trimming operation wherein applying the first editing operation comprises seeking the first media to a clip start time specified by the project data the seeking comprising issuing a streaming request to the network streaming sources for a specific data range within the first media and or streaming the first media up to the clip start time in the background prior to a time in the project timeline when the first media asset is to be rendered.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises rendering two or more of the streaming media assets concurrently within the video data the two or more of the streaming media assets being streamed concurrently to the client device.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises identifying amounts of buffer time needed for buffering at least portions of media for the streaming media assets prior to rendering the timespans of video data associated with the streaming media assets so as to ensure that the rendered video data is playable in real time during said rendering and scheduling times during the rendering to begin streaming media for the streaming media assets to buffers based on the identified amounts of buffer time and at least one of a memory constraint a bandwidth constraint or a network constraint such as latency or seeking times.

In at least some of the above embodiments the scheduling comprises calculating predicted streaming times and or seek times for the streaming media assets using metrics of actual streaming times and or seek times the metrics having been collected with respect to media streamed during previous renderings of video data at the client device and or one or more additional client devices the amounts of buffer time being based on the calculated predicted streaming times and or seek times.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises identifying a limit on a number of a streams that may be streamed to the client device concurrently wherein the scheduling comprises generating a schedule of the times to begin streaming media for the streaming media assets that avoids surpassing the limit on the number of the streams that may be streamed concurrently. In at least some of the above embodiments the limit is a number of actively streaming media elements that may concurrently exist in a document object model for a document into which the video data is being rendered wherein the scheduling further comprises scheduling times to add actively streaming media elements to the document object model and deactivate previously actively streaming media elements.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises sending a streaming request to the networking streaming source the streaming request including a first parameter instructing the network streaming source to only send a certain amount of data from the first media the first media asset specifying that only a clip of the first media is to be used calculating the certain amount of data based on the length of the clip and or a buffer size predicted to be needed for the first media to maintain playing of the rendered video data in real time as the first media asset is being rendered.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises responsive to determining that an original source of the first media is configured to ignore the first parameter determining to send the streaming request to the network streaming source instead of the original source the network streaming source being a proxy server configured to relay the first media from the original source to the client device.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises as the video data for the media project is being rendered the client device streaming media for multiple assets from different network streaming sources.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises as the video data for the media project is being rendered the client device streaming media for multiple assets in different formats.

In at least some of the above embodiments the media project associates a plurality of assets with timespans in the project timeline the plurality of assets including both graphic assets and media assets wherein rendering the video data for the media project comprises rendering the graphic assets during their associated timespans in the project timeline. In at least some of the above embodiments at least one of the graphic assets comprises an animated three dimensional geometry. In at least some of the above embodiments rendering the video data comprises rendering at least one of the graphic assets over the first media of the first streaming media asset. In at least some of the above embodiments rendering the graphic assets comprises drawing the graphic assets using WebGL instructions.

In at least some of the above embodiments the media project specifies spatial layout information for the plurality of assets in a three dimensional space and rendering the video data for the media project comprises projecting renderings of the plurality of assets into a two dimensional screen space based on the spatial layout information.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises prior to the rendering presenting a video editing interface at the client device receiving editing input via the video editing interface that arranges the plurality of assets in a scene storing spatial layout information for the plurality of assets in the project data rendering the video data for the media project responsive to a request via the video editing interface to play the media project wherein rendering the video data for the media project comprises projecting renderings of the plurality of assets into a two dimensional screen space based on the spatial layout information.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises prior to the rendering presenting a video editing interface at the client device receiving at the client from the server a listing of available graphic assets that are available for inclusion in the media project receiving editing input via the video editing interface that selects the graphic assets to include in the media project from the listing downloading the selected graphic assets from the server rendering the video data for the media project responsive to a request via the video editing interface to play the media project.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises prior to the rendering presenting a video editing interface at the client device receiving editing input via the video editing interface that selects the streaming media assets for inclusion in the media project and associates the streaming media assets with the corresponding timespans in the project timeline and rendering the video data for the media project responsive to a request via the video editing interface to play the media project.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises prior to the rendering presenting a video editing interface at the client device receiving editing input via the video editing interface that defines the media project creating the project data responsive to the editing input uploading the media project to a server system configured to share the project data with one or more other client devices.

In at least some of the above embodiments rendering the video data comprises playing at least a portion of the first media mapping the playing portion of the first media to a surface of a geometry in a three dimensional space and projecting the geometry with the mapped and playing portion of the first media into a two dimensional screen space.

In at least some of the above embodiments rendering the video data comprises adding a video element to a document object model the video element referencing the first media the video element configured to cause the streaming of the first media issuing one or more WebGL drawing instructions to create a geometry in a three dimensional space issuing one or more WebGL instructions to bind the video element to the geometry as a texture playing the video element issuing one or more WebGL instructions to render the geometry including the texture.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises receiving live editing input specifying one or more edits to the media project while rendering and playing the rendered video data updating the project data responsive to the one or more edits after receiving the live editing input continuing the rendering of the video data based on the updated project data to include the one or more edits.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises rendering an edited sequence that includes the first media asset and the second media asset playing at least a portion of the rendered sequence texture mapping the playing portion of the rendered sequence to a surface of a three dimensional geometry in a three dimensional space wherein the media project specifies spatial layout information for the assets in a three dimensional space and projecting the geometry with the mapped and playing portion of the rendered sequence into a two dimensional screen space.

In at least some of the above embodiments the rendering and the playing are responsive to a request for a real time playback of the media project and the video data is non frame accurate. The method further comprises subsequent to the rendering and playing receiving a request for a non real time playback of the media project responsive to the request for the non real time playback based on the project data rendering a frame accurate video data for the media project at the client device.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises the client device executing a browser based application that instructs the client device to perform any of the above methods.

According to an embodiment a method comprises sending listing information to client devices that lists assets in an asset repository the assets including streaming media assets streaming media for the streaming media assets to the client devices responsive to streaming requests from the client devices sending to the client devices application instructions that when executed by a given client device of the client devices cause the given client device to implement a video editing interface for creating a video editing project comprising selected assets from the asset repository receive input for creating the video editing project request the selected assets from the asset repository said requesting including requesting media streams for selected streaming media assets from the asset repository and render the video editing project at the given client device as video data that depicts the selected assets including the streaming media assets.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises storing in the asset repository project data for video editing projects created at the client devices via the video editing interface the assets including the video editing projects the project data shareable with multiple client devices.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises storing in the asset repository graphic assets the graphic assets including animated three dimensional geometries that are renderable in accordance with the application instructions.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises receiving proxy requests for certain streaming media at a proxy server the proxy requests including parameters that specify third party sources for the certain streaming media and amounts of data needed for the certain streaming media relaying the certain streaming media through the proxy server in response to the proxy requests at the proxy server manipulating certain headers for the relayed streaming media based on the amounts of data specified in the parameters to indicate that no more streaming media is available wherein the application instructions are configured to cause certain client devices to request the certain streaming media for certain streaming media assets from the proxy server instead of from the third party sources.

In at least some of the above embodiments the application instructions are further configured to when executed by the given client device of the client devices cause the given client device to play the rendered video data as the rendered video data is being rendered and as the media streams for the selected streaming media assets are being streamed.

In at least some of the above embodiments the application instructions are further configured to when executed by the given client device of the client devices cause the given client device to receiving editing input via the video editing interfaces specifying an editing operation to at least one streaming media asset and apply the editing operation to the at least one streaming media asset as the rendered video data is being rendered and as the at least one streaming media asset is being streamed.

In at least some of the above embodiments the method further comprises receiving uploads of the streaming media assets from the client devices wherein the application instructions are further configured to when executed by the given client device of the client devices cause the given client device to transcode the streaming media assets prior to upload.

In at least some of the above embodiments the application instructions are coded in HTML and JavaScript the client devices being configured to execute the application instructions in a web browser.

A system comprising an asset repository comprising a plurality of assets including streaming media assets a streaming server configured to stream the streaming media assets responsive to requests for the streaming media assets client devices configured to render video data for media projects comprising the streaming media assets stream media for the streaming media assets from the streaming server while the video data for the media projects that comprise the streaming media assets are being rendered concurrently with streaming the media for the streaming media assets and rendering the video data for the media projects playing the rendered video data in real time.

In at least some of the above embodiments the system further comprises a transaction server configured to conduct transactions with the client devices to sell licenses to purchasable assets in the plurality of assets.

In at least some of the above embodiments the system further comprises a proxy server configured to relay media streams for third party streaming media assets from one or more third party servers to the client devices the proxy server further configured to manipulate at least some of the relayed media streams.

In at least some of the above embodiments the client devices are further configured to apply editing operations and or special effects operations to the media streamed by the streaming server during said rendering and playing of the rendered video data in real time.

In at least some of the above embodiments the plurality of assets include graphic assets the graphic assets including animated three dimensional geometries that are renderable by the client devices in the rendered video data.

In at least some of the above embodiments the client devices are further configured to present video editing interfaces for creating the media projects and send project data describing the created media projects to a server for storage in the asset repository.

In at least some of the above embodiments the system further comprises an application server configured to send listings of assets in the asset repository to the client devices the client devices configured to present video editing interfaces for creating the media projects by selecting specific assets in the asset repository to include in the media projects.

In at least some of the above embodiments the system further comprises an application server configured to send browser based application logic to the client devices that when executed by the client devices causes the client devices to performing said rendering streaming and playing.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices smartphones media devices gaming consoles networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques.

Computer system includes one or more busses or other communication mechanism for communicating information and one or more hardware processors coupled with busses for processing information. Hardware processors may be for example a general purpose microprocessor. Computer system may also include one or more ASICs or FPGAs coupled with busses for implementing various portions of the logics and instructions described herein in hardware. Busses may include various internal and or external components including without limitation internal processor or memory busses a Serial ATA bus a PCI Express bus a Universal Serial Bus a HyperTransport bus an Infiniband bus and or any other suitable wired or wireless communication channel.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic or volatile storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes one or more read only memories ROM or other static storage devices coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . One or more storage devices such as a solid state drive SSD magnetic disk optical disk or other suitable non volatile storage device is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to one or more displays for presenting information to a computer user. For instance computer system may be connected via an High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI cable or other suitable cabling to a Liquid Crystal Display LCD monitor and or via a wireless connection such as peer to peer Wi Fi Direct connection to a Light Emitting Diode LED television. Other examples of suitable types of displays may include without limitation plasma display devices projectors cathode ray tube CRT monitors electronic paper virtual reality headsets braille terminal and or any other suitable device for outputting information to a computer user. In an embodiment any suitable type of output device such as for instance an audio speaker or printer may be utilized instead of a display .

In an embodiment output to display may be accelerated by one or more graphics processing unit GPUs in computer system . A GPU may be for example a highly parallelized multi core floating point processing unit highly optimized to perform computing operations related to the display of graphics data 3D data and or multimedia. In addition to computing image and or video data directly for output to display a GPU may also be used to render imagery or other video data off screen and read that data back into a program for off screen image processing with very high performance. Various other computing tasks may be off loaded from the processor to the GPU.

One or more input devices are coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . One example of an input device is a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys. Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. Yet other examples of suitable input devices include a touch screen panel affixed to a display cameras microphones accelerometers motion detectors and or other sensors. In an embodiment a network based input device may be utilized. In such an embodiment user input and or other information or commands may be relayed via routers and or switches on a Local Area Network LAN or other suitable shared network or via a peer to peer network from the input device to a network link on the computer system .

A computer system may implement techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and use a modem to send the instructions over a network such as a cable network or cellular network as modulated signals. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the network and demodulate the signal to decode the transmitted instructions. Appropriate circuitry can then place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

A computer system may also include in an embodiment one or more communication interfaces coupled to bus . A communication interface provides a data communication coupling typically two way to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example a communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example the one or more communication interfaces may include a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. As yet another example the one or more communication interfaces may include a wireless network interface controller such as a 802.11 based controller Bluetooth controller Long Term Evolution LTE modem and or other types of wireless interfaces. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by a Service Provider . Service Provider which may for example be an Internet Service Provider ISP in turn provides data communication services through a wide area network such as the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

In an embodiment computer system can send messages and receive data including program code and or other types of instructions through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. As another example information received via a network link may be interpreted and or processed by a software component of the computer system such as a web browser application or server which in turn issues instructions based thereon to a processor possibly via an operating system and or other intermediate layers of software components.

In an embodiment some or all of the systems described herein may be or comprise server computer systems including one or more computer systems that collectively implement various components of the system as a set of server side processes. The server computer systems may include web server application server database server and or other conventional server components that certain above described components utilize to provide the described functionality. The server computer systems may receive network based communications comprising input data from any of a variety of sources including without limitation user operated client computing devices such as desktop computers tablets or smartphones remote sensing devices and or other server computer systems.

In an embodiment certain server components may be implemented in full or in part using cloud based components that are coupled to the systems by one or more networks such as the Internet. The cloud based components may expose interfaces by which they provide processing storage software and or other resources to other components of the systems. In an embodiment the cloud based components may be implemented by third party entities on behalf of another entity for whom the components are deployed. In other embodiments however the described systems may be implemented entirely by computer systems owned and operated by a single entity.

In an embodiment an apparatus comprises a processor and is configured to perform any of the foregoing methods. In an embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing software instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause performance of any of the foregoing methods.

As used herein the terms first second certain and particular are used as naming conventions to distinguish queries plans representations steps objects devices or other items from each other so that these items may be referenced after they have been introduced. Unless otherwise specified herein the use of these terms does not imply an ordering timing or any other characteristic of the referenced items.

In the drawings the various components are depicted as being communicatively coupled to various other components by arrows. These arrows illustrate only certain examples of information flows between the components. Neither the direction of the arrows nor the lack of arrow lines between certain components should be interpreted as indicating the existence or absence of communication between the certain components themselves. Indeed each component may feature a suitable communication interface by which the component may become communicatively coupled to other components as needed to accomplish any of the functions described herein.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. In this regard although specific claim dependencies are set out in the claims of this application it is to be noted that the features of the dependent claims of this application may be combined as appropriate with the features of other dependent claims and with the features of the independent claims of this application and not merely according to the specific dependencies recited in the set of claims. Moreover although separate embodiments are discussed herein any combination of embodiments and or partial embodiments discussed herein may be combined to form further embodiments.

Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

