---

title: Active recoil control system
abstract: An active recoil control system uses multiple sensors in combination with a solenoid controlled multi-disc brake to adjust the weapon recoil. Using outputs from the sensors, a controller predicts and reacts to a recoiling mass performance, and applies the required braking force, in order to compensate for anticipated or actual variations. Feedback from the sensors allows the active recoil control system to adjust braking during the recoil strokes and counter-recoil strokes in order to optimize the weapon operation and performance in extreme firing conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09435602&OS=09435602&RS=09435602
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09435602
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150114
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates in general to the field of weapons. Specifically this invention relates to an active recoil control system that provides braking control based on the recoil weapon parameters and performance. More particularly the present invention is capable of adjusting the damping force of a mechanical recoil brake during recoil and counter recoil strokes in order to efficiently handle extreme firing conditions and the firing of multiple charges without hardware change.

In a soft recoil weapon system a recoiling mass generally refers to the components that move in response to the firing energy and may encompass for example a breech or a ramming mechanism recoil cylinders recoil springs and firing mechanism. The rearward impulse of firing the weapon is partially cancelled by the forward momentum of the recoiling mass at the time of firing.

The recoiling mass is normally held out of battery by a latch mechanism against a series of compression springs. When the latch mechanism is released the recoiling mass is accelerated forward by the compression springs called the counter recoil stroke . The pressure created by the ignition of the propellant gases will launch the projectile forward and will launch the recoiling mass rearward against the force created by the compression springs called the recoil stroke .

When designing a soft recoil system a balance is sought between the forward momentum of the recoil system and the firing impulse to ensure that the round fires and the weapon relatches while minimizing recoil forces. Since the weapon must perform under a variety of conditions including variations in ambient temperatures and propellant performance as well as weapon orientations quadrant elevations and platform cants slopes it becomes necessary to compensate for these variations in order to ensure latching and to minimize recoil loads.

Conventionally hydro pneumatic recoil systems are utilized on large caliber weapons to accomplish this task while small caliber systems utilize ring springs.

The need to maintain relatively low recoiling loads so that the weapons can be mounted onto light mobile platforms is further complicated by other factors. These factors include for example ignition delays the ability to react to abnormally high impulses the ability to perform at greater temperature extremes and the ability to perform at greater weapon cant.

Ignition delays may in extreme cases defeat the advantages of soft recoil. For instance by the time the mortar cartridge ignites the forward momentum of the recoiling mass is reduced to zero. In this case the recoil forces increase significantly making the weapon system less practical for light mobile platforms. Certain conventional weapons have addressed this problem by allowing the combustion gases to vent past the breech seal thereby reducing the rearward momentum. However this arrangement may reduce the muzzle velocity of the projectile.

Weapons must also be designed to withstand the largest expected chamber pressure for safe operation under the most extreme operating conditions. This pressure known as the PMP permissible individual maximum pressure may be typically as high as 50 greater than ambient temperature firing pressures. Statistically these conditions may arise 3 times per 10 000 rounds fired but result in greatly increased recoil forces. The traditional method of addressing this concern is to either increase the recoil distance to keep the forces to an acceptable level or to design larger more durable components.

Additionally mobile platforms must be able to engage a variety of targets under various environmental extremes with increased quadrant elevation ranges and be able to fire at a variety of platform orientations and cants. These factors tend to require reducing the forward momentum of the recoiling parts in order to guarantee latching which in turn results in higher recoiling forces.

Conventional soft recoil weapon systems are faced with the problem of actively controlling the recoil velocity to compensate for atypical or extreme firing conditions such as firing at temperature extremes firing on severe cants or when firing results in a late ignition. Variations in the conditions of the soft recoil systems can result in system malfunction or even failure.

The prominent issue with these conditions is that soft recoil systems are dependent on timing and load balances. More specifically situational firing conditions can cause the following recoil extremes 

1 the recoiling parts do not have sufficient velocity to re latch after firing requiring the user to re cock the weapon.

While the conventional methods provided a certain level of control to the soft recoil weapon systems there still remains a need for a more efficient active recoil control system that provides braking control based on the recoil weapon parameters and performance. More particularly the active recoil control system should be capable of adjusting the damping force of a mechanical recoil brake during recoil and counter recoil strokes in order to permit effective weapon operation in extreme firing conditions.

The present invention addresses the foregoing concerns and presents a new active recoil control system that uses multiple sensors in combination with a solenoid controlled multi disc brake to adjust the weapon recoil. Using outputs from these sensors the controller is able to both predict and react to the recoiling mass performance and to apply the required braking force in order to compensate for anticipated or actual variations.

Feedback from the sensors allows the active recoil control system to adjust braking during the recoil strokes and counter recoil strokes in order to optimize the weapon operation and performance in extreme firing conditions. The active recoil control system is able to eliminate the two major performance and design issues associated with soft recoil weapons namely failure to latch and managing excess firing loads.

Under certain conditions such as late ignition or PMP rounds the rearward recoil velocities may be too high causing the recoil stroke to bottom out and damage weapon components. In these circumstances the controller would apply braking force during the recoil stroke to slow down the recoiling mass and prevent the system from bottoming out.

Under certain conditions such as extreme cold or firing on a downhill the firing impulse may not be large enough to make the gun recoil all the way back to latch. In these circumstances the active recoil brake would be used to apply braking force during the counter recoil stroke so that the firing impulse would be sufficient to return the gun to the latched position.

The recoil brake is a multi disc friction brake that utilizes a stack of rotors and stators to provide a braking or damping load to the recoiling mass. It is configured to be a normally on system so that energy must be applied to the system to turn the brake off. The purpose of this is to both act as a safety and provide a more consistent brake force. According to another embodiment of the present invention the recoil brake inverts the solenoid in conjunction with the addition of a lever mechanism. The functionality is essentially the same however inversion of the solenoid in combination with the lever mechanism permits a higher braking force.

Similar numerals refer to similar elements in the drawings. It should be understood that the sizes of the different components in the figures are not necessarily in exact proportion or to scale and are shown for visual clarity and for the purpose of explanation.

With reference to they illustrate an exemplary automated weapon that is provided with an active recoil control system according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In this example the automated weapon includes an ammunition feeding mechanism a gun tube and a recoiling mass that translates back and forth.

While the ammunition feeding mechanism is shown as including four rounds and it should be clear that the ammunition feeding mechanism can be provided with a different number of rounds wherein each round e.g. may be respectively stored in a storage cell e.g. 105 as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 596 422 titled Mortar Retention System For Automated Weapons which is concurrently filed with the present application and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The general operation of the automated weapon will now be described in connection with . shows the first round being chambered and the recoiling mass being cocked and latched. shows the recoiling mass unlatched and ramming the first round forward along the arrow A causing the first round to be fired through the gun tube . shows the first round exiting the gun tube resulting in a soft recoil effect wherein the reaction forces ensuing from the firing of the first round cause the recoiling mass to move back along the arrow B and to latch. illustrates the recoiling mass latched with the ammunition feeding mechanism indexed to the next round .

While illustrates the recoiling mass as being controlled by only one recoil brake it should be abundantly clear that more than one recoil brake may be used as part of the active recoil control system . In addition while the recoil brake is described in connection with a weapon for illustration purpose only it should be amply clear that the present invention is not limited to soft recoil mechanisms or weapons and that an exemplary soft recoil weapon is presented herein for illustration purpose and does not purport to be the exclusive embodiment covered by the present invention. The recoil brake may form part of a braking system in numerous other military and commercial applications including but not limited to vehicular braking systems.

Furthermore while the recoil brake is described as interfacing with the rack gear that is formed on the recoil cylinder it should be clear that the rack gear may be formed on or secured to any suitable component of the recoiling mass . The main function of the rack gear is to enable the recoil brake to regulate or limit the linear recoil or counter recoil strokes of the recoil cylinder and ultimately those of the recoiling mass . Consequently the rack gear may be substituted with any suitable known or available device that provides a similar or equivalent function.

In general the recoil brake includes a housing assembly that provides the interface for mounting the recoil brake onto a stationary component of the weapon . An idler gear meshes with the rack gear for selectively transmitting a calibrated braking torque from the recoil brake to the recoiling mass .

In accordance with the present invention the rack gear which is affixed to the recoiling mass moves linearly when the weapon is fired. The recoil brake which is secured to the weapon cradle remains stationary. The effect is the motion of the recoil cylinder causes the idler gear to spin. The rotation of the idler gear causes a brake shaft to rotate as well. This is how the application of a torque on the brake shaft is translated into a linear force on the recoiling components. Under normal circumstances when the weapon is fired the solenoid is activated causing only the torque due to gravity of the disc assembly to be transmitted to the recoiling mass . This is achieved by activating the solenoid which opposes the wave spring .

Under certain conditions when the controller determines that the recoil velocity of the rack gear requires adjustment it instructs the recoil brake to apply the appropriate recoil braking force onto the rack gear to resist excess recoil translation movement of the rack gear .

Similarly the controller is also capable of instructing the recoil brake to apply the appropriate counter recoil braking force onto the rack gear .

In general the housing assembly provides environmental protection to the recoil brake and further provides means for securing the recoil brake to the weapon . The disc housing includes a heat dissipation element .

As further illustrated in the solenoid housing houses an override nut and a solenoid . The disc housing houses a wave spring a pressure plate and a disc assembly . The override nut enables the performance of maintenance on the recoil brake . It provides manual override of the recoil brake by opposing a force generated by the wave spring without the use of the solenoid .

One side of the wave spring engages and presses against the bottom side of the solenoid housing while its other side presses against the pressure plate . In turn the pressure plate engages a solenoid plunger and abuts against the disc assembly .

The upper housing and the lower housing house bearings the idler gear and a brake shaft . The upper and lower housings provide the interface for mounting the disc assembly to the weapon . As described earlier the idler gear meshes with the rack gear on one of the recoil cylinder and transmits the braking torque from the brake shaft to the recoiling mass .

As further illustrated in the disc assembly is formed of a plurality of interlaced discs that convert the axial force applied by the wave spring into a torque applied to the brake shaft . The disc assembly includes two endors a plurality of stators e.g. stators and a plurality of rotors e.g. rotors .

The endors and the stators are securely keyed to the disc housing and are stationary. The rotors are interlaced between the endors and the stators and rotate with the brake shaft . Each rotor e.g. is forced to rotate with the brake shaft via a spline connection. Braking is achieved by the interaction of the rotors that rotate with the brake shaft and the stators that are stationary and fixed to the housing .

The wave spring applies a force to the pressure plate . In the normal position the pressure plate transmits the wave spring force directly to the disc assembly causing the multi disc recoil brake to apply a braking or damping force to the recoiling mass . The solenoid is used to oppose the wave spring force on the pressure plate and to relieve the force transmitted to the disc assembly . Consequently activating the solenoid allows the brake shaft to spin freely except for the frictional forces due to gravity.

In summary when the recoiling mass is moving it causes the rack gear to translate which causes the idler gear and the brake shaft to rotate also. The spinning brake shaft causes the rotors to spin.

In a free wheel mode where it is desired to remove the braking force from the disc assembly an electrical current is applied to the solenoid . The solenoid converts the electrical current into a mechanical linear force which is demonstrated by the linear movement of the solenoid plunger . The solenoid plunger acts upon the pressure plate which in turn acts on the wave spring to oppose it. This relieves the brake force and allows the idler gear to move freely. In this mode the solenoid exerts a force that is equal to that of the wave spring . Consequently the wave spring force is not transmitted to the disc brake assembly allowing the rotors to rotate freely.

In a braking mode where it is desired to apply a braking force onto the disc assembly the solenoid is deactivated by removing the electrical current therefrom in part or completely . As a result the wave spring force passes through the pressure plate and compresses all the rotors together against their corresponding stators resulting in a braking action.

The wave spring always pushes against the pressure plate . The difference between the two states is where the spring force ends up. In the braking mode the spring force runs through all the brake discs of the brake disc assembly . In the free wheel mode the spring force ends up cancelled by the solenoid . In both modes the spring force is transmitted through the pressure plate .

With reference to based upon the recoil velocity projectile temperature and the weapon cant data the controller will be able to determine the amount of braking required for the existing firing conditions. During normal firing conditions where the recoil brake is not needed the controller will fully activate the solenoid reducing the braking force close to zero. To this end the activation of the solenoid causes the solenoid plunger to be pull the pressure plate upwardly thus relieving the wave spring force from the disc assembly . When firing is carried out in extreme conditions such as a cold temperatures e.g. 45 F. and or negative cant e.g. 20 degrees the controller will utilize tabulated data to apply the appropriate braking force during forward motion of the weapon to ensure that the weapon latches during the recoil system rearward stroke. When a late ignition occurs the controller will utilize a feedback control loop to slow the rearward motion of the recoiling mass so as to prevent weapon damage from occurring. To this end a proportionate current is fed to the solenoid so that the solenoid is deactivated or de energized at least in part.

Consequently by using the sensors data in real time with a variable recoil brake the active control recoil system is able to solve issues with situational firing conditions that have plagued soft recoil weapons since their inception.

One of the main structural differences between the recoil brake and the recoil brake is that the solenoid is inverted in the recoil brake . In the recoil brake when the solenoid is activated the solenoid plunger moves along the upward direction. In the recoil brake when the solenoid is activated its plunger moves along the downward direction to engage a lever assembly .

The lever assembly is generally formed of three levers three clevis eyes and three clevis pins . The clevis eyes are fixed by two screws and . The lever arm pivots about the pivot pin when it is pushed in the downward direction by the solenoid plunger . When the solenoid is activated it applies a force on the three levers which in turn push up on the pressure plate to relieve the disc assembly allowing the rotors to rotate freely. When the levers move they pivot about the pivot pin which is held in place by the clevis eye . As a result the spring force is opposed by the solenoid via the levers and pressure plate is removed from the friction discs.

When the solenoid is deactivated the three levers stop opposing the wave spring and the wave spring load is transmitted to the brake disc assembly to generate the braking torque. Although the motion of the solenoid is reversed relative to the previous embodiment it still functions the some way activating the solenoid turns the brake off while deactivating the solenoid turns the brake on.

Generally a solenoid is limited in term of the amount of force it can apply e.g. 170 pounds of force. In the setup of recoil brake the axial force applied to the disc assembly is limited to maximum output of the solenoid . However the recoil brake uses a lever assembly to provide a mechanical advantage to the solenoid opposing the wave spring . As a result the allowable wave spring force is the solenoid force multiplied by the mechanical advantage e.g. 170 lbf 4. Consequently the braking capacity is increased by the mechanical advantage of the lever assembly minus any losses due to friction in the lever mechanism .

Using outputs from these sensors the controller is able to both predict and react to the recoiling mass performance and to apply the required braking force in order to compensate for anticipated or actual variations. Feedback from the sensors allows the active recoil control system to adjust braking during the recoil stroke in order to optimize the weapon performance. The active recoil control system is now able to eliminate the two major performance and design issues associated with soft recoil weapons namely failure to latch and managing excess firing loads.

At step the method inquires whether the recoiling mass is relatched that is if the gun has returned to its starting position. If it has then the controller deenergizes the solenoid causing it to apply a braking force. If on the other hand it is determined at step that the recoiling mass has not relatched then the process further inquires at step if the recoiling mass is still recoiling.

If it is determined that the recoiling mass is not recoiling then the process calculates at step the ramming velocity setpoint using for example the round temperature the round charge and the weapon cant weapon attitude temperature round height the charge height and other parameters . If on the other hand it is determined that the recoiling mass is recoiling then the controller calculates the recoil velocity setpoint at step .

The process then proceeds to step where it inquires if the recoiling mass is at the proper setpoint. If it is then the process loops back to step and follows the remaining steps as described earlier. If however it is determined that the recoiling mass is not at the proper setpoint then the controller adjusts the brake current in order to cause the recoil brake to apply the desired appropriate braking force on the recoiling mass .

It is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein with reference to device or element orientation such as for example terms like front back up down top bottom forward rearward and the like are only used to simplify the description of the present invention and do not alone indicate or imply that the device or element referred to must have a particular orientation. In addition terms such as first second and third are used herein and in the appended claims for purposes of description and are not intended to indicate or imply relative importance or significance.

It is also to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangements of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. Other modifications may be made to the present design without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The present invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways such as for example in military and commercial applications.

