---

title: Method and system for magnetic stripe reading using mobile magnetometers
abstract: In various example embodiments, a system and method for reading magnetic information by a mobile device are presented. In example embodiments, the mobile device comprises a housing having an integrated surface for swiping a magnetic swipe card and a magnetometer, positioned within the housing, for detecting direction and strength of magnetic fields to read magnetic information from a variety of sources and to produce digital magnetometer output signals. The digital magnetometer output signals represent magnetic information derived from the magnetic swipe card and from the Earth's magnetic fields (or other sources). Each of the digital magnetometer output signals having a magnitude related to the strength of the detected magnetic fields. The mobile device determines at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the magnetic information derived from the magnetic swipe card and provides that information to a magnetic card application for processing. The mobile device determine at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the magnetic information derived from the Earth's magnetic fields and provides that information to a compass application for processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589219&OS=09589219&RS=09589219
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09589219
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151209
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to data processing and more particularly but not by way of limitation to a method and system for magnetic stripe reading using mobile magnetometers.

Conventionally mobile devices such as smart phones may include magnetometer used as a compass. For example starting with the iPhone 3GS all iPhones have a built in magnetometer. The magnetometer in the iPhone is used to find the direction the iPhone is pointed in e.g. a compass . By knowing the direction the iPhone is pointed in by measuring the direction of the Earth s magnetic field along with global positioning systems GPS allows users to use navigation apps on their iPhones.

The headings provided herein are merely for convenience and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the terms used.

The description that follows includes systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments of the disclosure. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques are not necessarily shown in detail.

In various example embodiments a mobile device includes a housing having an integrated surface configured to align magnetic information stored in a magnetic stripe on a magnetic swipe card by moving the magnetic swipe card across the integrated surface of the mobile device for reading the magnetic information. illustrates an example of a magnetic stripe from a magnetic swipe card for a financial transaction card e.g. credit and banking cards . The magnetic swipe cards can also be used as identify cards e.g. driver s licenses security badges transportation tickets loyalty cards etc. The magnetic stripes represent tracks of iron based magnetic particles that are encoded to orient to one of the magnetic pole positions e.g. North or South . The flux reversals that results as the magnetic signal is read across the magnetic stripe results in a code that can be interpreted by a reader e.g. a magnetometer . Accordingly the magnetic stripes on the magnetic swipe cards use a strip of magnetic material to store digital data. A small amount of data is stored on the strip may include the cardholder s name account number expiration date etc.

In example embodiments the mobile device is a smart phone and the integrated surface is the backside of the smart phone. The integrated surface is positioned at least partially above a magnetometer inside the mobile device. The magnetometer represents a magnetic reader. In some embodiments the built in magnetometer in a mobile device is used to pick up the flux reversals in a magnetic stripe as the magnetic swipe card is swiped across the backside of the mobile device.

In further embodiments the built in magnetometer may be calibrated to pick up the flux reversals in a magnetic stripe as the magnetic swipe card is swiped across the backside of the mobile device. In other embodiments the digital magnetometer output signals may be calibrated by a processor executing an algorithm. Calibrations may be used to account for various environmental factors such as the Earth s magnetic field electric currents in the ionosphere temperature and hard and soft iron distortions. For example to calibrate for the Earth s magnetic field the device s location e.g. via GPS can be found and used to compare the device s location to the known magnetic strength at that location on the Earth measured in Gauss units this can be converted to Tesla . Slight variations in the ionosphere can influence the Earth s magnetic field on the order of 0.2 0.3 mGauss average . Temperature can also factor into magnetic readings and must also be factored into the algorithm. Hard and soft iron distortions result from objects in the magnetic field distinctions between hard and soft iron distortions pertain to the specific material of the object. In the context of a mobile device the internal components that surround the magnetometer must also be factored into the algorithm and will vary from device to device as their components vary. Secondary distortions can occur from other objects like the human body.

In further embodiments a magnetometer is used to read information by detecting a direction and strength of magnetic fields from the Earth and magnetic fields from the magnetic card information for generating digital magnetometer output signals. In some embodiments the magnetometer is an integrated circuit compass chip located within the mobile device that may be able detect magnetic fields from a variety of magnetic sources for example magnetic card information from magnetic swipe cards as well as the Earth s magnetic fields.

In various embodiments the magnetometer produces the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the magnetic card information and other magnetic sources. In some embodiments the other digital magnetometer output signals represent the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the Earth or associated with medical information related to a human body of a person or user. In other embodiments a processor within the mobile device performs a filtering function for filtering the digital magnetometer output signals derived from various magnetic sources. In various embodiments the filtering may be performed based on the magnitude of the digital magnetometer output signals. In various embodiments the magnitude of the digital magnetometer output signals are associated with the strength of the magnetic fields detected or measured by the magnetometer. In various embodiments described the direction of the magnetic fields may be represented by x y and z directional vectors.

In other embodiments the magnetometer includes an analog to digital converter for providing digital magnetometer output signals associated with the magnetic card information and digital magnetometer output signals associated with the earth and magnetic sources.

In other example embodiment the mobile device includes a processor that receives the digital magnetometer output signals and may perform further processing e.g. calibrations filtering etc. before utilizing the digital magnetometer output signals in various applications such as apps executing on a mobile device. The digital magnetometer output signals may be associated with the different magnetic sources for example the magnetic card information the Earth or medical information associated with the human body. In various embodiments the processor from the mobile device determines which digital magnetometer output signals are to be provided to which application installed and or executing on the mobile device or some other computing device. For example the mobile device may receive some sort of indication to provide the digital magnetometer output signals to a particular application. One indication may be when a particular application e.g. a magnetic swipe card application is open on the mobile device such that the relevant digital magnetometer output signals e.g. those signals associated with the magnetic card information are sent to that application by the processor in the mobile device.

In some embodiments the digital magnetometer output signals are associated with the magnetic card information and the processor in the mobile device is used to decode the magnetic information associated with the magnetic card information and to make digital signals available to a magnetic swipe card application when the processor of the mobile device is executing instructions from the magnetic swipe card application. In other embodiments the digital magnetometer output signals are associated with other magnetic information from other magnetic sources and the processor in the mobile device is further configured to make those signals available to other applications when the processor of the mobile device is executing instructions from the other applications. Examples of other applications include a compass application that uses the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the Earth a medical application e.g. a blood application or a body fat application that uses the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the medical information from a human body.

In other example embodiments some or all of the components of the magnetic swipe card application may be running on another computing device and may access the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the magnetic card information.

In a further embodiment a method of magnetic stripe reading using a mobile device is described. The method includes reading magnetic card information by swiping a magnetic stripe on a magnetic swipe card along a surface of a mobile device positioned partially over a magnetometer. The magnetometer within the mobile device reads the magnetic card information and also detects other magnetic information from other magnetic sources e.g. the Earth human bodies electronics or other items in the environment . The magnetometer within the mobile device generates digital magnetometer output signals. A processor of a machine determines at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent encoded magnetic card information and at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the other magnetic information detected. A processor of a machine executes at least one of a magnetic card information application and another magnetic application. The magnetic card information application utilizes the encoded magnetic card information and the other magnetic application utilizes the other magnetic information detected in example embodiments.

In another embodiment a method of magnetic stripe reading using a mobile device is described. A magnetometer included within a mobile device detects magnetic information. At least some of the magnetic information is decoded by a processor of a machine. A processor of a machine filters the magnetic information to determine magnetic card information associated a magnetic card application and Earth s magnetic field information associated with a compass application. In response to instructions executing on the processor of the machine from the magnetic card application the magnetic card information is accessed. In response to instructions executing on the processor of the machine from the compass application the Earth s magnetic field information is accessed.

A magnetic swipe card represents a type of card capable of storing data by modifying the magnetism of tiny iron based magnetic particles on a band of magnetic material on the card also referred to as the magnetic stripe or magstripe . The data from the magnetic stripe is read by swiping the magnetic stripe past a magnetic read head. A magnetometer represents an example of a read head also referred to as a reader.

In the embodiment shown in a user has a magnetic swipe card that he or she swipes across a mobile device . For example the mobile device represents a smart phone that has a back side or surface that can be used to swipe the magnetic swipe card by moving the magnetic swipe card across the back surface. In various embodiments the surface used for swiping is integrated with the mobile device and not an external device e.g. a dongle connected via an earphone jack of a mobile device or other type of reader. At least a portion of the back surface of the user device is positioned over a magnetometer for reading the magnetic card information from the magnet swipe card .

The mobile device includes a built in magnetometer and has a variety of applications installed on the mobile device e.g. as shown in that can use magnetic information encoded in the magnetic swipe card and other magnetic information sensed by the magnetometer . The other information sensed or detected by the magnetometer may include for example magnetic information related to the Earth s magnetic fields magnetic information related to a user or human body or magnetic information related to electronic components.

Various magnetometers have different sensitivities and can measure a range of magnetic fields originating from a various magnetic sources. Thus depending on the sensitivity of the magnetometer within the mobile device determines which magnetic fields are detected. Examples of other magnetic sources and associated strengths or magnitudes of their magnetic fields include pulsed fields e.g. 40 60 teslas electromagnets e.g. 2 5 teslas Earth s fields e.g. between 10to 10teslas traffic appliances etc. e.g. between 10to 10teslas power transmission lines at 10 meters e.g. between 10to 10teslas human hear signals e.g. between 10to 10teslas optic nerve signals e.g. between e.g. 10to 10teslas and muscle impulses and spontaneous brain activity e.g. in the range of 10 .

These magnetic fields may be generated by a variety of magnetic sources such as a human body e.g. a heart and brain of a person muscle impulses and optic nerve signals a magnet various electrical electronic appliances including TVs and computers power transmission lines etc. The Earth also has its own magnetic field with its largest at the poles 60 000 nanoteslas nT and it is smallest as the equator 30 000 nT . These examples of magnetic signals generated by a variety of sources other than the magnetic swipe card are referred to as other magnetic information throughout the specification. Various embodiments described throughout the specification filter the magnetic information such that the magnetic information derived from the different sources can be determined or identified. The digital magnetometer output signals that are filtered are then sent to relevant applications or apps. In other embodiments calibration is used to correct for deviations caused by magnetic fields from other sources in the detected magnetometer signals.

The information detected sensed or measured by the magnetometer may be used by a number of applications installed on the mobile device . As shown in in an example embodiment the mobile device may have at least one of the following applications or types of applications installed on it compass applications magnetic swipe card applications and other magnetic applications e.g. medical applications . The compass applications may use information from the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the Earth s magnetic field. The magnetic swipe card applications e.g. payment applications banking applications security applications travel applications and ticketing applications may use information from the digital magnetometer output signals associated with magnetic stripes on a magnetic swipe card. The medical applications may use information in the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the human body e.g. heart brain blood muscles and nerves .

In some examples the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the Earth s magnetic field have magnitudes within a first range the digital magnetometer output signals associated with magnetic stripes on a magnetic swipe card have magnitudes within a second range and the digital magnetometer output signals associated with the human body have magnitudes within a third range. There may be some overlap with one or more of the first second and third ranges. In various embodiment filtering may be based on the magnitude ranges of the digital magnetometer output signals. For example digital magnetometer output signals having a magnitude within a first range may be filtered from digital magnetometer output signals having a magnitude within a second range.

When executing one of the applications on the mobile device the relevant information i.e. derived from the relevant magnetic source is provided to that application. In various embodiments a processor from the mobiles device determines what information is to be made accessible to which application. In some embodiments the processor may filter the digital magnetometer output signals based on the magnitude of the signals detected by the magnetometer also referred to as digital magnetometer output signals . In some examples the magnitude range of the signals may be used for filtering. In other embodiments a processor in another computing device or component may be used to perform the filtering of the output signals produced by the magnetometer based on the magnitude of the output signals.

In some embodiments the networked system includes one or more remote servers and associated databases. The client applications installed in the mobile device may have a corresponding server side application hosted by the networked system . For example the compass applications corresponding to the compass applications the magnetic swipe card applications corresponding to the magnetic swipe card applications and the other magnetic applications corresponding to the other magnetic applications may be hosted by the networked system . In some embodiments the functional components of an application may be shared or distributed between the client application and the corresponding server side application. For example the mobile device which includes the magnetometer may sense and capture the magnetic signals from or more sources and the processing e.g. filtering processing and actions based on the various signals could be performed partially by the networked system or partially by the networked system .

In one example embodiment a mobile device comprises a housing having an integrated surface for swiping a magnetic swipe card a magnetometer positioned within the mobile device for detecting direction and strength of magnetic fields to read magnetic information and to produce digital magnetometer output signals. The digital magnetometer output signals representing magnetic information derived from the magnetic swipe card and from the Earth s magnetic fields. Each of the digital magnetometer output signals having a magnitude related to the strength of the detected magnetic fields. The mobile devices comprises a memory device for storing instructions and a processor coupled to the magnetometer when executing the instructions causes the mobile device to determine at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the magnetic information derived from the magnetic card information determine at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the magnetic information derived from the Earth s magnetic fields provide the digital magnetometer output signals representing the magnetic information derived from the magnetic card information to a magnetic swipe card application for processing and provide the digital magnetometer output signals representing the magnetic information derived from the Earth s magnetic information to a compass application for processing.

The mobile device includes a magnetometer which is used to measure magnetic fields. Generally a magnetometer includes a sensor that measures magnetic flux density B in units of tesla . Magnetic fields are considered vector quantities characterized by both strength and direction. The strength of a magnetic field is measured in units of tesla in the international system of units SI units and in gauss in the centimeter gram second system of units cgs units . 10 000 gauss are equal to one tesla. Measurements of the Earth s magnetic field are often quoted in units of nanotesla nT also called a gamma. The Earth s magnetic field can vary from 20 000 to 80 000 nT depending on location fluctuations in the Earth s magnetic field are on the order of 100 nT and magnetic field variations due to various magnetic anomalies in the picotesla pT range.

There are two basic types of magnetometer measurements. Vector magnetometers measure the vector components of a magnetic field. Total field magnetometers or scalar magnetometers measure the magnitude of the vector magnetic field. Magnetometers used to study the Earth s magnetic field may express the vector components of the field in terms of declination the angle between the horizontal component of the field vector and magnetic north and the inclination the angle between the field vector and the horizontal surface .

Many smartphones available today contain magnetometers that detect magnetic information that are provided to applications that serve as compasses. For example the magnetometer in the iPhone manufactured by Apple Inc. provides the magnetic field strength along three axis in micro teslas T and can be used to find the direction the iPhone is pointed in. The magnetometers in the iPhone can also be used to measure the strength of magnetic fields. In some iPhones the magnetometer is implemented using an AK8973 chip or AK8963 chip manufactured by Asahi Kasei MicroDevices Corp. to detect magnetic fields using the Hall effect. These chips are 3 axis electronic compass integrated circuits IC with high sensitivity Hall sensor technology. Example iPhones can measure magnetic fields up to about 1 T with a precision of about 8 T 8 micro teslas .

Magnetic saturation and remanence are two characteristics that determine the strength or measurability of the magnetic information provided by magnetic swipe card information. The magnetic saturation represents the maximum magnetization a stripe can carry and the point at which it produces its highest output signal amplitude. The remanence represents the extent the stripe remains magnetized after having applied the saturating magnetic field. There is a third characteristic coercivity which determines how much magnetic field it takes to erase or overwrite a magnetic stripe. Low coercivity cards are around 300 Oersted Oed 30 000 micro Teslas while high coercivity cards are around 4000 Oed 400.000 micro Teslas . In example embodiments the coercivity of the magnetic stripes used in cards falls somewhere between 300 4000 Oed.

As described above a magnetic swipe card is a type of card capable of storing data by modifying the magnetism of tiny iron based magnetic particles on a band of magnetic material on the card. illustrates a magnetic swipe card according to an example embodiment. By encoding data on the magnetic stripe data can be entered into a computer with a single swipe of the magnetic swipe card . The dimensions shown in represent the dimension of an example financial transaction card. The dimensions of an example magnetic swipe card includes a thickness of 0.030 inches a height of 2.125 inches and a width of 3.375 inches. Other magnetic swipe cards may have different dimensions.

In most magnetic swipe cards e.g. the magnetic swipe card is contained in a plastic like film. The magnetic stripe is located 0.223 inches 5.66 mm from the edge of the card. The magnetic stripe contains three tracks each 0.110 inches 2.79 mm wide. Tracks one and three are typically recorded at 210 bits per inch 8.27 bits per mm while track two typically has a recording density of 75 bits per inch 2.95 bits per mm . Each track can either contain 7 bit alphanumeric characters or 5 bit numeric characters. Track 1 standards were created by the airlines industry IATA . Track 2 standards were created by the banking industry ABA . Track 3 standards were created by the Thrift Savings industry.

Currently there are many standards by the International Organization for Standardization and by the International Electrotechnical Commission referred to as ISO IEC standards for magnetic stripe use. The most commonly used standards are the ISO IEC 7810 7811 7812 and 7813 series of standards. These standards are written for the credit and debit card market and so include information on the embossed characters on the cards as well as the track locations and information on the magnetic stripe. ISO IEC 7811 has six parts with parts two and six specifically about low and high coercivity magnetic stripes. These standards include information on the magnetic properties that guarantee that the stripe can be read in a magnetic stripe reader in the U.S.A. as well as in Japan. The ISO IEC 7811 series of standards define track one as a read only track with 210 bits per inch and 6 bits plus a parity bit per character. This allows for a full alpha numeric encoding. Track two and three both use four bits plus a parity bit number characters plus A to F only with track two at 75 bits per inch and track three at 210 bits per inch. Additionally three new American National Standards ANSI standards that relate to magnetic stripe performance are in progress. These are 1 Effective Magnetic Parameters of Magnetic Stripes 2 Suggested Magnetic Parameter Values for Applications and 3 Magnetic Stripe Readers and Encoders Equipment Specifications.

Magnetic stripe technology is used by many people and often on a daily basis in various industries. The transportation industry often uses the stripe technology for airline tickets and other transportation or transit tickets. The security industry often uses the magnetic stripe technology on security badges and security checkpoints. The retail industry often uses the stripe technology on loyalty cards and reward cards. The financial industry often uses the stripe technology on financial transaction cards e.g. credit cards debit cards and other banking cards . Today financial cards which generally adhere to the ISO standards to ensure read reliability world wide and along with transportation cards constitute the largest users of magnetic swipe cards.

Magnetic stripe technology provides an optimal solution to many aspects of our lives. It is very inexpensive and readily adaptable to many functions. The standardization of high coercivity for the financial markets has provided the industry with an extended life. This coupled with the advent of the security techniques now available means that many applications can expect to be using magnetic stripe technology in the future.

Examples of cards adhering to these standards include ATM cards bank cards credit and debit cards including VISA and MasterCard gift cards loyalty cards driver s licenses telephone cards membership cards electronic benefit transfer cards e.g. food stamps and nearly any application in which value or secure information is not stored on the card itself. Many video game and amusement centers now use debit card systems based on magnetic swipe cards.

A memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Flash memory or another type of memory is typically accessible to the processor . The memory may be adapted to store an operating system OS as well as applications . The applications may represent the compass applications the magnetic swipe card applications and other magnetic applications .

The processor may be coupled either directly or via appropriate intermediary hardware to a display and to one or more input output I O devices such as a keypad a touch panel sensor a microphone and the like. Additionally the mobile device may include a magnetometer .

The performance and capabilities of magnetometers e.g. magnetometer are described through their technical specifications. Major specifications include 

Similarly in some embodiments the processor may be coupled to a transceiver that interfaces with an antenna . The transceiver may be configured to both transmit and receive cellular network signals wireless data signals or other types of signals via the antenna depending on the nature of the mobile device . In this manner a connection between the mobile device and the network may be established. Further in some configurations a GPS receiver may also make use of the antenna to receive GPS signals.

In some embodiments one or more hardware and or software components within the electronic compass IC circuit may need to modified or new components added to detect and measure the magnetic fields from the desired magnetic sources. For example the sensitivity of the electronic compass IC circuit may need to be increased to read and process the magnetic card information from a magnetic swipe card or the medical information from a human body.

The electronic compass IC circuit includes a 3 axis Hall sensor that includes monolithic Hall elements a MUX for selecting Hall elements a chopper SW that performs chopping i.e. breaking up DC signals so it can be processed more easily and amplified increasing stability and accuracy of the signal a HE Drive representing a magnetic sensor drive circuit a pre amp representing a fixed gain differential amplifier used to amplify the magnetic sensor signal a voltage reference an integrator ADC that integrates and amplifies the pre AMP output and performs analog to digital conversion an interface logic register that exchanges signals with a CPU using input outputs I Os an OSC1 generates an operating clock for sensor measurement an OSC2 generates an operating clock for sequencer timing control generates a timing signal required for internal operation from a clock generated by the OSC1 a POR representing a power on reset circuit a fuse ROM representing a fuse for adjustment a magnetic source generates a magnetic field for self test of a magnetic sensor. Various power supply pins include pins VSS VDD and VID. Various input current pins include pins CAD0 CAD1 TRG and TST1. The chopper is an electronic switch that interrupts a signal under the control of another and corrects for signal errors in this case resulting from the Hall effect. The I Os include an SDA SI terminal for receiving input signals and an SO terminal for providing output signals via a digital serial interface e.g. IC bus interface .

At operation other magnetic information is detected by the magnetometer within the mobile device from other magnetic sources. For example other magnetic information sensed by a magnetometer e.g. magnetometer may include for example magnetic information related to the Earth s magnetic fields magnetic information related to a user or human body magnetic information related to electronic components or magnetic information related to other items in the environment.

At operation generating by a magnetometer within the mobile device digital magnetometer output signals. At operation determining by a processor of a machine at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent encoded magnetic card information. At operation determining by a processor of a machine at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the other magnetic information detected. At operation executing by a processor of a machine at least one of a magnetic card information application utilizing the encoded magnetic card information and another magnetic application utilizing the other magnetic information detected.

In other embodiments the method includes storing the digital magnetometer output signals accessing by the processor of the machine the encoded magnetic card information based on instructions from the magnetic card information application and accessing by the processor of the machine the other magnetic application based on instructions from the other magnetic application.

In another embodiment the operation of determining at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent encoded magnetic card information includes identifying the encoded magnetic card information based on the strength of the magnetic fields generated by magnetic stripe on the magnetic swipe card.

In a further embodiment the operation of determining at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the detected other magnetic information includes identifying the other magnetic information based on the strength of the magnetic fields generated by the Earth.

In yet another embodiment the operation of determining at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the detected other magnetic information includes identifying the other magnetic information based on the strength of the magnetic fields generated by a blood sample.

In an example embodiment a method for reading and detecting digital magnetometer output signals for utilization by various applications includes the operations of detecting by a magnetometer within a mobile device direction and strength of magnetic fields from a magnetic swipe card that were swiped along a surface of the mobile device detecting by the magnetometer within the mobile device direction and strength of magnetic fields from an other magnetic source generating by the magnetometer within the mobile device digital magnetometer output signals the digital magnetometer output signals representing magnetic information derived from the magnetic swipe card and from the other magnetic source each of the digital magnetometer output signals having a magnitude related to the strength of the detected magnetic fields determining by a processor of a machine at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the detected magnetic information derived from the magnetic swipe card determining by a processor of a machine at least some of the digital magnetometer output signals represent the detected magnetic information from the other magnetic source and executing by a processor of a machine at least one of a magnetic card application utilizing the digital magnetometer output signals representing the detected magnetic information derived from the magnetic swipe card and an other application utilizing the digital magnetometer output signals representing the detected magnetic information derived the other magnetic source.

At operation filtering by a processor of a machine the magnetic information to determine magnetic card information associated a magnetic card application and Earth s magnetic field information associated with a compass application. More specifically filtering the magnetic information derived from various sources based on magnitudes of the output signals. For example the magnetic card information has output signals with magnitudes within a first range and the Earth s magnetic field information has output signals with magnitudes within a second range.

At operation accessing the magnetic card information in response to instructions executing on the processor of the machine from the magnetic card application. At operation accessing the Earth s magnetic field information in response to instructions executing on the processor of the machine from the compass application.

In another embodiment the method includes filtering by the processor of the machine the magnetic information to determine medical information associated with a medical application and accessing the medical information in response to instructions executing on the processor of the machine from a medical application.

In an example embodiment a method for reading and detecting digital magnetometer output signals for utilization by various applications includes the operations of receiving digital magnetometer output signals captured by a mobile device the digital magnetometer output signals including magnetic information derived from a magnetic swipe card and Earth s magnetic field filtering the magnetic information to determine whether the digital magnetometer output signals represents magnetic information associated with the magnetic swipe card or magnetic information associated with the Earth s magnetic fields based on a magnitude of the digital magnetometer output signals providing the digital magnetometer output signals representing the magnetic information associated with the magnetic swipe card to a magnetic swipe card application for processing and providing the digital magnetometer output signals representing the magnetic information associated with the Earth s magnetic fields to a compass application for processing.

With reference to an example embodiment of a high level client server based network architecture is shown. A networked system in the example forms of a network based marketplace or payment system provides server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet or wide area network WAN to one or more client devices . illustrates for example a web client e.g. a browser such as the Internet Explorer browser developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. State client application s and a programmatic client executing on client device .

The client device may comprise but are not limited to a mobile phone or other client devices that include a magnetometer. For example desktop computer laptop portable digital assistants PDAs smart phones tablets ultra books netbooks laptops multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics game consoles set top boxes or any other device that may access the networked system may include a magnetometer. In various embodiments a mobile device includes one or more devices described above that has a magnetometer capable of measuring the strength of magnetic fields from a variety of sources. In some embodiments the client device may comprise a display module not shown to display information e.g. in the form of user interfaces . In further embodiments the client device may include one or more of a magnetometer or other magnetic reader touch screens accelerometers gyroscopes cameras microphones global positioning system GPS devices and so forth. The client device may be a device of a user that is used to perform a transaction involving digital items within the networked system . In one embodiment the networked system is a network based marketplace that responds to requests for product listings publishes publications comprising item listings of products available on the network based marketplace and manages payments for these marketplace transactions. One or more users may be a person a machine or other means of interacting with client device . In embodiments the user is not part of the network architecture but may interact with the network architecture via client device or another means. For example one or more portions of network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a wireless network a Wi Fi network a WiMAX network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks.

Each of the client device may include one or more applications also referred to as apps such as but not limited to a web browser messaging application electronic mail email application an e commerce site application also referred to as a marketplace application and the like. In some embodiments if the e commerce site application is included in a given one of the client device then this application is configured to locally provide the user interface and at least some of the functionalities with the application configured to communicate with the networked system on an as needed basis for data and or processing capabilities not locally available e.g. access to a database of items available for sale to authenticate a user to verify a method of payment etc. . Conversely if the e commerce site application is not included in the client device the client device may use its web browser to access the e commerce site or a variant thereof hosted on the networked system .

One or more users may be a person a machine or other means of interacting with the client device . In example embodiments the user is not part of the network architecture but may interact with the network architecture via the client device or other means. For instance the user provides input e.g. touch screen input or alphanumeric input to the client device and the input is communicated to the networked system via the network . In this instance the networked system in response to receiving the input from the user communicates information to the client device via the network to be presented to the user. In this way the user can interact with the networked system using the client device .

An application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application server s . The application servers may host one or more publication systems and payment systems each of which may comprise one or more modules or applications and each of which may be embodied as hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more information storage repositories or database s . In an example embodiment the database s are storage devices that store information to be posted e.g. publications or listings to the publication system . The database s may also store digital item information in accordance with example embodiments.

Additionally a third party application executing on third party server s is shown as having programmatic access to the networked system via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . For example the third party application utilizing information retrieved from the networked system supports one or more features or functions on a website hosted by the third party. The third party website for example provides one or more promotional marketplace or payment functions that are supported by the relevant applications of the networked system .

The publication systems may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment systems may likewise provide a number of functions to perform or facilitate payments and transactions. While the publication system and payment system are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments each system and may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system . In some embodiments the payment systems may form part of the publication system .

The magnetic reader system may provide functionality operable to execute various applications utilizing information from various magnetic sources. In an example embodiment the onboard processing performed using the mobile device shown in and the signal capture processing is performed by the magnetic reader system . For example the filtering processing and actions based on the various signals could be determined by the application server s e.g. the magnetic reader system and therefore making the client device more of a thin client which is used only for sensing and capturing the signals from the magnetic sources. In other example embodiments the onboard processing and the signal capture processing is performed by the client device e.g. mobile device .

For example the magnetic reader system may access the user selected data from the databases the third party servers the publication system and other sources. In some example embodiments the magnetic reader system may execute some or all of the components of at least one of the compass applications the magnetic swipe card applications and the other magnetic applications .

In some example embodiments the magnetic reader system may communicate with the publication system s and payment system s . For example when the source of the magnetic information is derived from a financial transaction card the magnetic reader system may communicate with the payment system s . In other embodiments when the source of the magnetic information is derived from a rewards card or a loyalty card the magnetic reader system may communicate with the publication systems . In an alternative embodiment the magnetic reader system may be a part of at least one of the publication system and the payment system .

Further while the client server based network architecture shown in employs a client server architecture the present inventive subject matter is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication system payment system and magnetic reader system could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client may access the various publication and payment systems and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication and payment systems and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the Turbo Lister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system .

Additionally a third party application executing on a third party server s is shown as having programmatic access to the networked system via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . For example the third party application utilizing information retrieved from the networked system may support one or more features or functions on a website hosted by the third party. The third party website may for example provide one or more promotional marketplace or payment functions that are supported by the relevant applications of the networked system .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software executed by a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. Once configured by such software hardware modules become specific machines or specific components of a machine uniquely tailored to perform the configured functions and are no longer general purpose processors. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software accordingly configures a particular processor or processors for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented with a particular processor or processors being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an Application Program Interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

The modules methods applications and so forth described in conjunction with are implemented in some embodiments in the context of a machine and an associated software architecture. The sections below describe representative software architecture s and machine e.g. hardware architecture that are suitable for use with the disclosed embodiments.

Software architectures are used in conjunction with hardware architectures to create devices and machines tailored to particular purposes. For example a particular hardware architecture coupled with a particular software architecture will create a mobile device such as a mobile phone tablet device or so forth. A slightly different hardware and software architecture may yield a smart device for use in the internet of things. While yet another combination produces a server computer for use within a cloud computing architecture. Not all combinations of such software and hardware architectures are presented here as those of skill in the art can readily understand how to implement the invention in different contexts from the disclosure contained herein.

In the example architecture of the software may be conceptualized as a stack of layers where each layer provides particular functionality. For example the software may include layers such as an operating system libraries frameworks middleware applications and presentation layer . Operationally the applications and or other components within the layers may invoke application programming interface API calls through the software stack and receive a response returned values and so forth illustrated as messages in response to the API calls . The layers illustrated are representative in nature and not all software architectures have all layers. For example some mobile or special purpose operating systems may not provide a frameworks middleware layer while others may provide such a layer. Other software architectures may include additional or different layers.

The operating system may manage hardware resources and provide common services. The operating system may include for example a kernel services and drivers . The kernel may act as an abstraction layer between the hardware and the other software layers. For example the kernel may be responsible for memory management processor management e.g. scheduling component management networking security settings and so on. The services may provide other common services for the other software layers. The drivers may be responsible for controlling or interfacing with the underlying hardware. For instance the drivers may include display drivers camera drivers Bluetooth drivers flash memory drivers serial communication drivers e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB drivers Wi Fi drivers audio drivers power management drivers and so forth depending on the hardware configuration.

The libraries may provide a common infrastructure that may be utilized by the applications and or other components and or layers. The libraries typically provide functionality that allows other software modules to perform tasks in an easier fashion than to interface directly with the underlying operating system functionality e.g. kernel services and or drivers . The libraries may include system libraries e.g. C standard library that may provide functions such as memory allocation functions string manipulation functions mathematic functions and the like. In addition the libraries may include API libraries such as media libraries e.g. libraries to support presentation and manipulation of various media format such as MPREG4 H.264 MP3 AAC AMR JPG PNG graphics libraries e.g. an OpenGL framework that may be used to render 2D and 3D in a graphic content on a display database libraries e.g. SQLite that may provide various relational database functions web libraries e.g. WebKit that may provide web browsing functionality and the like. The libraries may also include a wide variety of other libraries to provide many other APIs to the applications and other software components modules.

The frameworks also sometimes referred to as middleware may provide a higher level common infrastructure that may be utilized by the applications and or other software components modules. For example the frameworks may provide various graphic user interface GUI functions high level resource management high level location services and so forth. The frameworks may provide a broad spectrum of other APIs that may be utilized by the applications and or other software components modules some of which may be specific to a particular operating system or platform.

The applications includes built in applications and or third party applications . Examples of representative built in applications may include but are not limited to a contacts application a browser application a book reader application a location application a media application a messaging application and or a game application. In some embodiments a compass application and or a magnetic reader application may be included within the built in applications and or third party applications . In some embodiments the magnetic reader application may perform the operations described in methods and shown in and respectively. Third party applications may include any of the built in applications as well as a broad assortment of other applications. In a specific example the third party application e.g. an application developed using the Android or iOS software development kit SDK by an entity other than the vendor of the particular platform may be mobile software running on a mobile operating system such as iOS Android Windows Phone or other mobile operating systems. In this example the third party application may invoke the API calls provided by the mobile operating system such as operating system to facilitate functionality described herein. Examples of other applications included within the applications include the compass applications the magnetic swipe card applications and the other magnetic card applications . In other embodiments the corresponding mobile applications e.g. the compass applications the magnetic swipe card applications and the other magnetic card applications installed and executable on the mobile device may be included in the client applications . In further embodiments the compass applications the magnetic swipe card applications and the other magnetic card applications may be third party applications included within the third party application .

The applications may utilize built in operating system functions e.g. kernel services and or drivers libraries e.g. system APIs and other libraries frameworks middleware to create user interfaces to interact with users of the system. Alternatively or additionally in some systems interactions with a user may occur through a presentation layer such as presentation layer . In these systems the application module logic can be separated from the aspects of the application module that interact with a user.

Some software architectures utilize virtual machines. In the example of this is illustrated by virtual machine . A virtual machine creates a software environment where applications modules can execute as if they were executing on a hardware machine such as the machine of for example . A virtual machine is hosted by a host operating system operating system in and typically although not always has a virtual machine monitor which manages the operation of the virtual machine as well as the interface with the host operating system i.e. operating system . A software architecture executes within the virtual machine such as an operating system libraries frameworks middleware applications and or presentation layer . These layers of software architecture executing within the virtual machine can be the same as corresponding layers previously described or may be different.

The machine may include processors memory and I O components which may be configured to communicate with each other such as via a bus . In an example embodiment the processors e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a Reduced Instruction Set Computing RISC processor a Complex Instruction Set Computing CISC processor a Graphics Processing Unit GPU a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFIC another processor or any suitable combination thereof may include for example processor and processor that may execute instructions . The term processor is intended to include multi core processor that may comprise two or more independent processors sometimes referred to as cores that may execute instructions contemporaneously. Although shows multiple processors the machine may include a single processor with a single core a single processor with multiple cores e.g. a multi core process multiple processors with a single core multiple processors with multiples cores or any combination thereof.

The memory storage may include a memory such as a main memory or other memory storage and a storage unit both accessible to the processors such as via the bus . The storage unit and memory store the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or partially within the memory within the storage unit within at least one of the processors e.g. within the processor s cache memory or any suitable combination thereof during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the memory the storage unit and the memory of processors are examples of machine readable media.

As used herein machine readable medium means a device able to store instructions and data temporarily or permanently and may include but is not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory optical media magnetic media cache memory other types of storage e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processors cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium excludes signals per se.

The I O components may include a wide variety of components to receive input provide output produce output transmit information exchange information capture measurements and so on. The specific I O components that are included in a particular machine will depend on the type of machine. For example portable machines such as mobile phones will likely include a touch input device or other such input mechanisms while a headless server machine will likely not include such a touch input device. It will be appreciated that the I O components may include many other components that are not shown in . The I O components are grouped according to functionality merely for simplifying the following discussion and the grouping is in no way limiting. In various example embodiments the I O components may include output components and input components . The output components may include visual components e.g. a display such as a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT acoustic components e.g. speakers haptic components e.g. a vibratory motor resistance mechanisms other signal generators and so forth. The input components may include alphanumeric input components e.g. a keyboard a touch screen configured to receive alphanumeric input a photo optical keyboard or other alphanumeric input components point based input components e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument tactile input components e.g. a physical button a touch screen that provides location and or force of touches or touch gestures or other tactile input components audio input components e.g. a microphone and the like.

In further example embodiments the I O components may include biometric components motion components environmental components or position components among a wide array of other components. For example the biometric components may include components to detect expressions e.g. hand expressions facial expressions vocal expressions body gestures or eye tracking measure biosignals e.g. blood pressure heart rate body temperature perspiration or brain waves identify a person e.g. voice identification retinal identification facial identification fingerprint identification or electroencephalogram based identification and the like. The motion components may include acceleration sensor components e.g. accelerometer gravitation sensor components rotation sensor components e.g. gyroscope and so forth. The environmental components may include for example illumination sensor components e.g. photometer temperature sensor components e.g. one or more thermometer that detect ambient temperature humidity sensor components pressure sensor components e.g. barometer acoustic sensor components e.g. one or more microphones that detect background noise proximity sensor components e.g. infrared sensors that detect nearby objects gas sensors e.g. gas detection sensors to detection concentrations of hazardous gases for safety or to measure pollutants in the atmosphere or other components that may provide indications measurements or signals corresponding to a surrounding physical environment. The position components may include location sensor components e.g. a Global Position System GPS receiver component altitude sensor components e.g. altimeters or barometers that detect air pressure from which altitude may be derived orientation sensor components e.g. magnetometers and the like.

Communication may be implemented using a wide variety of technologies. The I O components may include communication components operable to couple the machine to a network or devices via coupling and coupling respectively. For example the communication components may include a network interface component or other suitable device to interface with the network . In further examples communication components may include wired communication components wireless communication components cellular communication components Near Field Communication NFC components Bluetooth components e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy Wi Fi components and other communication components to provide communication via other modalities. The devices may be another machine or any of a wide variety of peripheral devices e.g. a peripheral device coupled via a Universal Serial Bus USB .

Moreover the communication components may detect identifiers or include components operable to detect identifiers. For example the communication components may include Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag reader components NFC smart tag detection components optical reader components e.g. an optical sensor to detect one dimensional bar codes such as Universal Product Code UPC bar code multi dimensional bar codes such as Quick Response QR code Aztec code Data Matrix Dataglyph MaxiCode PDF417 Ultra Code UCC RSS 2D bar code and other optical codes or acoustic detection components e.g. microphones to identify tagged audio signals . In addition a variety of information may be derived via the communication components such as location via Internet Protocol IP geo location location via Wi Fi signal triangulation location via detecting a NFC beacon signal that may indicate a particular location and so forth.

In various example embodiments one or more portions of the network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN the Internet a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a plain old telephone service POTS network a cellular telephone network a wireless network a Wi Fi network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks. For example the network or a portion of the network may include a wireless or cellular network and the coupling may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular or wireless coupling. In this example the coupling may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP including 3G fourth generation wireless 4G networks Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE standard others defined by various standard setting organizations other long range protocols or other data transfer technology.

The instructions may be transmitted or received over the network using a transmission medium via a network interface device e.g. a network interface component included in the communication components and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Similarly the instructions may be transmitted or received using a transmission medium via the coupling e.g. a peer to peer coupling to devices . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of embodiments of the present disclosure. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single disclosure or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present disclosure as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

