---

title: Tunable filter employing feedforward cancellation
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for a tunable filter employing feedforward cancellation are disclosed. According to one aspect, the subject matter described herein includes a tunable transmissive filter that includes a splitter for splitting an input signal into a first signal and a second signal, a first modifier circuit for modifying a characteristic of the first signal to produce a modified first signal, a second modifier circuit for using feedforward cancellation to modify a characteristic of the second signal to produce a modified second signal, the second modifier circuit including an N-path filter, N being an integer greater than 0; and a combiner for combining the modified first signal and the modified second signal to produce a filtered output signal having a bandpass response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654983&OS=09654983&RS=09654983
owner: North Carolina State University
number: 09654983
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150402
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 974 517 filed Apr. 3 2014 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. IIP 1216908 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter described herein relates to methods and systems for tunable filters. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to tunable filters employing feedforward cancellation.

The FCC predicts that consumer demand for wireless bandwidth will exceed national capacity in less than two years FCC11 . With Smartphone sales 200 million units in Q1 of 2013 LIU13 and their consumption of bandwidth accelerating greater spectral efficiency is crucial. Multi band Smartphones are projected to require up to a dozen channel filters by 2014 and rising thereafter with the results that filter cost will soon be 10 that of a feature phone KAS10 YOL12 . The prospect of ever rising cost complexity and space requirements in Smartphones has driven the search for an ultra wideband tunable filter. To date research has focused on MEMS or other switched filter banks and on tunable capacitors WU06 HIL08 MOR09 REI09 MI10 but none have met all the criteria for commercial success. Without a cost effective ultra wideband tuning technology free of distortion utilization of spectrum will be inadequate adversely affecting consumers industry and the economy.

Accordingly there exists a need for a cost effective ultra wideband tuning technology free of distortion and particularly for a tunable filter employing feedforward cancellation.

According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a tunable transmissive filter that includes a splitter for splitting an input signal into a first signal and a second signal a first modifier circuit for modifying a characteristic of the first signal to produce a modified first signal a second modifier circuit for using feedforward cancellation to modify a characteristic of the second signal to produce a modified second signal the second modifier circuit including an N path filter N being an integer greater than 0 and the N path filter having a desired frequency response e.g. bandstop bandpass etc. and a combiner for combining the modified first signal and the modified second signal to produce a filtered output signal having a bandpass response.

According to another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a tunable reflective filter that includes a first reflecting network comprising an N path terminated filter having a plurality of switching devices for selectively connecting an input to a load through at least one of a plurality of active termination devices N being an integer greater than 0 and the N path filter having a desired frequency response e.g. bandstop bandpass etc. a second reflecting network comprising either another N path terminated filter having a plurality of switching devices for selectively connecting an input to a load through at least one of a plurality of active termination devices N being an integer greater than 0 and the N path filter having a desired frequency response e.g. bandstop bandpass etc. or a tunable delay line having a first end and a second end the second end being connected to a termination circuit for selectively terminating the second end of the delay line to an open circuit to a short circuit to ground or to an impedance to ground and a coupler for coupling a filter input signal to the first end of the tunable delay line and to the input of the terminated filter and for coupling the first end of the tunable delay line and the input of the terminated filter to a filter output signal wherein the coupler uses feedforward cancellation to combine a signal reflection from the delay line with a signal reflection from the terminated filter to produce a filtered output signal having a desired frequency response.

According to yet another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for tunable transmissive filtering. The method includes splitting an input signal into a first signal and a second signal modifying a characteristic of the first signal to produce a modified first signal modifying a characteristic of the second signal to produce a modified second signal including using an N path filter N being an integer greater than 0 and the N path filter having a desired frequency response e.g. bandstop bandpass etc. and combining the modified first signal and the modified second signal to produce a filtered output signal having a bandpass response.

According to yet another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for tunable reflective filtering. The method includes providing a filter input signal to a first reflecting network comprising an N path terminated filter having a plurality of switching devices for selectively connecting an input to a load through at least one of a plurality of active termination devices N being an integer greater than 0 and the N path filter having a desired frequency response e.g. bandstop bandpass etc. providing the filter input signal to a second reflecting network comprising either another N path terminated filter having a plurality of switching devices for selectively connecting an input to a load through at least one of a plurality of active termination devices N being an integer greater than 0 and the N path filter having a desired frequency response e.g. bandstop bandpass etc. or a tunable delay line having a first end and a second end the second end being connected to a termination circuit for selectively terminating the second end of the delay line to an open circuit to a short circuit to ground or to an impedance to ground and combining a signal reflection from the first reflecting network with a signal reflection from the second reflecting network to produce a filtered output signal having a filter response.

The subject matter described herein can be implemented in software in combination with hardware and or firmware. For example the subject matter described herein can be implemented in software executed by a processor. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein can be implemented using a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory computer readable media such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

A universal channel selection filter for smartphones and other wireless mobile devices and radios. The analog filter technology illustrated herein is termed Adjustable Mixer Based Interference Response AMBIR to reflect the fact that it exploits frequency translating mixers together with feedforward cancellation to realize a widely tunable filter which reduces the need for resonance based filters in common use today. Exemplary principles of the AMBIR filter technology of wide tunability and frequency translated filtering functions have been demonstrated through simulation and measurement. AMBIR is proposed as a new class of filter that enables a universal channel selector supporting spectrum efficiency in Smartphones and other reconfigurable platforms. As a CMOS circuit AMBIR can provide the low size weight power and cost required of consumer wireless electronics while also addressing military requirements for multi band tuning.

In the embodiment illustrated in filter includes a splitter for splitting an input signal into a first signal and a second signal . A first modifier circuit modifies a characteristic of first signal to produce a modified first signal . A second modifier circuit modifies a characteristic of second signal to produce a modified second signal . In one embodiment second modifier circuit includes N path bandstop filter N being an integer greater than 0. A combiner combines modified first signal and modified second signal to produce a filtered output signal having a bandpass response. In one embodiment second modifier circuit may include additional circuits including but not limited to a limiter such as a radio frequency RF limiter a differential quadrature signal generator and a phase shifter .

AMBIR filter prototype. A proof of concept design was implemented to assess the feasibility of realizing a fully integrated single chip AMBIR filter in low cost CMOS technology for 0.7 3.0 GHz operation. The prototype was realized in 0.13 m CMOS technology and included spiral transformers a delay line a phase shifter an RF amplifier an 8 path tunable notch filter and an 8 phase clock generator. Here we describe the first generation circuit operation and highlight the simulated performance of the filter.

In the AMBIR filter a type of feed forward cancellation is used to invert the response of the 8 path tunable notch to obtain a linearized band pass response. The in band response is set by the passive path and the out of band response to be set by the matching between the two paths. As a result the linearity of the N path and the out of band rejection are both improved. To achieve good out of band rejection the two paths should be amplitude and delay matched hence an RF amplifier is included in the active path for amplitude matching a delay line is included in the passive path to compensate for the active path s group delay and a four quadrant vector interpolator is included in the active path for precise cancellation. shows the simulated transfer function of the filter shown in when set for a 1 GHz center frequency when the active path is configured for cancellation at this frequency. These results confirm the proof of concept.

AMBIR filter extensions and modifications. The basic AMBIR Filter can be modified in numerous ways to realize improved performance and or enhanced functionality. The AMBIR Filter IC can have enhanced functionality by providing tunable bandwidth and Q factor. To realize programmable filter functions active baseband filter implementations can be utilized e.g. op amp based which are up converted through the N path topology and linearized through the AMBIR topology. This provides tunable bandwidth center frequency and Q factor. The AMBIR Filter IC can have reduced size and or reduced insertion loss through compact power splitting combining implementations with unequal power splitting combining. The AMBIR Filter IC can have reduced size and or power consumption through incorporation of the gain within the active baseband filter and replacing the active RF phase shifter with tunable passive delay lines.

Enhancing the functionality through active baseband filter implementation In the AMBIR filter shown in the N path filter incorporates a bank of simple series capacitors to realize a high pass function which when translated to RF results in a 2nd order notch response. To achieve selectable bandwidth and filter order active baseband filter implementations can be utilized such as Gm C or biquadratic implementations.

Reducing the power and area of the filter. illustrates a chip layout for an AMBIR filter according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. The initial proof of concept design shown in consumes 2.8 mmarea and 90 mW power at 2 GHz where clock power depends on frequency. Though the single chip footprint can replace many stand alone SAW filters it is desirable to reduce the area to save cost. Towards this end the output balun can be replaced with a non isolating T junction reducing size by 30 . This is similar to how Doherty amplifiers are power combined at their outputs DOH36 however the lack of isolation between the two paths requires the output impedance of the active path to be high in band which may restrict the tuning. Second the phase shifter can be eliminated and their function instead realized using a tunable delay line in the passive path NAT07 LAR09 . Third as mentioned above through the use of active baseband filters the RF amplifier can be eliminated.

In the embodiment illustrated in filter includes a first reflecting load a second reflecting load and a 90 degree hybrid coupler . As shown in the first reflecting load is comprised of an N path terminated filter having a plurality of switching devices for selectively connecting an input to ground through at least one of a plurality of active termination devices . In the embodiment illustrated in reflecting load includes an 8 path terminated filter but other values of N could be used N being an integer greater than 0. In one embodiment includes a controller includes an N phase pulse generator for controlling the plurality of switching devices via control signals sent to control terminals of the plurality of switching devices .

The second reflecting load can be implemented either as another N path reflecting load or as a tunable delay line . As shown in the tunable delay line comprises a first end and a second end the second end being connected to a termination circuit for selectively terminating the second end of the delay line to an open circuit to a short circuit to ground or to an impedance to ground.

Filter includes a coupler couples a filter input signal IN to both the input of a first reflecting load and the input of a second reflecting load and also couples the input of a first reflecting load and the input of a second reflecting load to a filter output signal OUT. Coupler combines a signal reflection from reflecting load with a signal reflection from reflecting load to produce a filtered output signal OUT having a desired frequency response.

In the embodiment illustrated in the input signal IN is applied to port of coupler . Half the signal appears at port with 90 phase shift and half appears at port with 180 phase shift. A first reflecting load is attached to the through port port having a reflection coefficient and a second reflecting load is attached to the coupled port port having a reflection coefficient . It can be shown that the output signal is proportional to whereas the signal returned to the input is proportional to . By correctly designing and an AMBIR cancellation response can be achieved. As with the previous embodiments the N phase active filter illustrated in can be tuned by adjusting the local oscillator frequency which changes the frequency of the signals LO LOillustrated in .

Enhancing the Electrical Performance of the Filter. To reduce insertion loss unequal power splitting in the balun s can be used. For example referring to 90 of the signal can be fed to the passive path and 10 fed to the active path. Since the active path has gain the two paths can be equalized to achieve good out of band cancellation. In band the loss is now much less since we have not thrown away half of the input power into the active path.

To improve out of band cancellation the delay between the active and passive bands must be matched. To reduce the delay in the active path both the RF amplifier and the RF phase shifter can be eliminated and replaced with the gain in the active baseband filter and a tunable passive delay line in the passive path respectively. In so doing the group delay will be reduced allowing the on chip delay line to be a reasonable length for integration 

It should be noted that although most of the examples above describe the principles of operation of an N path filter that functions as a band stop filter the subject matter described herein is not so limited and may also apply to the use of an N path filter that implements a high pass low pass bandpass or bandstop function as well as to the use of multiple N path filters in parallel and or series to further shape the filter response. The multiple N path filters may perform the same or different filter functions.

It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

The disclosures of all of the references listed herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

 ABO10 Abouzied A. An integrated SAW less narrowband F front end 53Midwest Symp Cir and Sys 2010 664 7.

 AND10 C. Andrews and A. C. Molnar Implications of passive mixer transparency for impedance matching and noise figure in passive mixer first receivers IEEE Trans. Circuits and Systems I vol. 57 no. 12 pp. 3092 3103 December 2010.

 ANG08 Angier R. Tunable RF Filters Pursuing the holy grail of filter R D. http mwjournal expertadvice tunable RF filters pursuing holy grail acoustic filter  RES 125 .

 BOL11 Bolton J. 2011. Mobile Device RF Front End TAM analysis and forecast . CS ManTech Conference May 16 2011.

 DAR07 Darabi A blocker filter technique for SAW less receivers IEEE Solid State Circuits 2007 42 2766 73.

 FLO08 B. Floyd A 16 to 18.8 GHz sub integer N frequency synthesizer for 60 GHz transceivers IEEE J. Solid State Circuits vol. 43 no. 5 pp. 1076 1086 May 2008.

 FRA60 L. E. Franks and I. W. Sandberg An alternative approach to the realizations of network functions N path filter Bell Syst. Tech. J. pp. 1321 1350 1960.

 GHA11 A. Ghaffari E. A. M. Klumperink M. C. M. Soer and B. Nauta Tunable high Q Npath band pass filters modeling and verification IEEE J. Solid State Circuits vol. 46 no. 5 pp. 998 1010 May 2011.

 HU10 Hu A wide tuning digitally controlled FBAR based oscillator for frequency synthesis. Int Freq Cont Symp FCS 2010 608 12.

 LAR09 Larsen Film bulk acoustic resonator FBAR devices with temperature compensation U.S. Pat. No. 7 561 009.

 LON00 J. R. Long Monolithic transformers for silicon RF IC design IEEE J. Solid State Circuits vol. 35 no. 9 pp. 1368 1382 September 2000.

 MEE10 Meeker M Internet Trends Morgan Stanley Investor Conference NY April 2010 MI10 Mi. MEMS tunable bandpass filter on high k LTCC 23rd Int. Conf MEMS 2010 787090.

 MIR11 A. Mirzaei and H. Darabi Analysis and imperfections on performance of 4 phase passive mixer based high Q bandpass filters in SAW less receivers IEEE Trans. Circuits and Systems I vol. 58 no. 5 pp. 879 892 May 2011.

 MIR12 A. Mirzaei H. Darabi and D. Murphy Architectural evolution of integrated M phase high Q bandpass filters IEEE Trans. Circuits and Systems I vol. 59 no. 1 January 2012.

 MOR09 Morris A S Micro electromechanical systems MEMS variable capacitors and actuator components and related methods U.S. Pat. No. 7 545 622.

 NAT11 A. Natarajan S. Reynolds M. D. Tsai S. Nicolson J. H. C. Zhan D. Kam D. Liu O. Huang A. Valdes Garcia and B. A. Floyd A fully integrated 16 element phased array receiver in SiGe BiCMOS for 60 GHz communications IEEE J. Solid State Circuits vol. 46 no. 5 pp. 1059 1 75.

 REI09 Reines and Rebeiz Cascadable RF MEMS switched capacitors for 0.1 to 2 GHz applications Microwave Symp Digest 2009 1157 60.

 SEN06 Sengupta 2006 Electronically tunable filters with dielectric varactors U.S. Pat. No. 7 145 415.

 TSA09 M. D. Tsai and A. Natarajan 60 GHz passive and active RF path phase shifters in silicon EEE RFIC Symp. Dig. Papers June 2009 pp. 223 226.

 WER10 Werth System design considerations for SAW less front end and example of GSM DCS1088 53rd MidWest Symp Circ and Sys 2010 664 7.

 YOS10 Acoustic surface wave filter module and method for manufacturing the same U.S. Pat. No. 7 692 513.

