---

title: System and method for providing photoverification to mobile device charging stations
abstract: Systems and methods for locating and providing public mobile device charging stations are disclosed. One or more charging stations may be configured to charge a battery of a mobile device. A database may be configured to store location information of the one or more charging stations as well as mobile device location and security credential information of the one or more respective mobile devices. A server communicatively coupled with the one or more charging stations and the database, may be configured to determine a proximity of the one or more charging stations to a location of the mobile device. This determination may be based on the station location information and the mobile device location information. Based on the determined proximity, provide the station location information of the respective one or more charging stations to the mobile device. The charging station further provides photo and/or video surveillance security to verify a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565565&OS=09565565&RS=09565565
owner: 
number: 09565565
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150901
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 095 866 filed Dec. 3 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 732 731 filed Dec. 3 2012 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The instant disclosure relates to mobile device charging and in particular to systems and methods for providing photoverification to public or private mobile device charging stations.

Mobile devices such as cellular phones personal digital assistants tablets and the like are now widely used and heavily depended upon for voice and data communications. In order to maintain proper power levels for the operation of the device the battery of the mobile device needs to be recharged from time to time. Often at inopportune times mobile device users may be located at public locations without the ability to recharge the mobile device battery. Even with the existence of public mobile device charging stations these stations are limited in number and location. Consequently a mobile device user runs the risk of his mobile device battery being exhausted before locating an available station to recharge the mobile device.

The present disclosure provides systems and techniques for providing and locating public mobile device charging stations.

In embodiments of the present invention one or more charging stations may be configured to charge a battery of a mobile device. A database may be configured to store location information of the one or more charging stations as well as mobile device location charge and or other information of the one or more respective mobile devices. A server communicatively coupled with the one or more charging stations and the database may be configured to determine a proximity of the one or more charging stations to a location of the mobile device. This determination may be based on the station location information and the mobile device location information. Based on the determined proximity the server may provide the station location information of a respective one or more charging stations to the mobile device.

The server and or mobile application may also monitor a power level of the battery of the mobile device. Based on the power level of the battery of the mobile device the user may be alerted and provide location information of the respective one or more charging stations to the mobile device.

Thereby the invention may provide a system and method to alert a user of the locations of nearby publicly available public or private charging stations to charge his mobile device when the battery power level of his mobile device decreases to a low level. Moreover the disclosed system and method also provide a system and method that provides advertising opportunities for retailers the ability for retailers to drive traffic to a store or stores a mobile application such a mobile application might indicate and or suggest charging station locations and or monitor a user s use and the correspondent battery charge and the like

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for the purpose of clarity many other elements found in typical network systems mobile devices telecommunications servers and telecommunications generally and associated methods. Those of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that other elements and or steps are desirable and or required in implementing the present invention. However because such elements and steps are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements and steps is not provided herein. The disclosure herein is directed to all such variations and modifications to the disclosed elements and methods known to those skilled in the art.

It would be advantageous for a user to use a system to be alerted of the locations of nearby publicly available public or private charging stations to charge his mobile device when the battery power level of his mobile device decreases to a low level. It would be particularly advantageous if such a system and method also provided advertising opportunities for retailers the ability for retailers to drive traffic to a store or stores a mobile application such as a mobile application that would indicate and or suggest charging station locations and or that would monitor a user s use and the correspondent battery charge and the like.

Mobile devices such as cellular phones personal digital assistants tablets and the like are now widely used and heavily depended upon for voice and data communications. In order to be operational mobile devices typically employ the use of rechargeable batteries. These batteries need to be recharged from time to time in order to maintain proper power levels for the operation of the mobile device. For example some estimate that the typically user runs low on battery power in a mobile device approximately 4 times each week.

Because a conventional charger generally utilizes alternating current and specifically typically uses either 110V or 220V household current designed for indoor use it is often difficult to recharge a mobile device battery in a public place or while traveling without access to a suitable power terminal. Further even in the case of an available power terminal such charging would require the user to also be traveling with a charger which may be inconvenient or easily forgotten. Similarly while outside and or travelling in a vehicle the user may need to have his or her charger available particularly a charger that is adapted for the specific device brand and model in order to use a vehicle s electrical power supply. Thus public mobile device charging systems suitable for charging mobile devices are highly beneficial.

However although public charging stations are known and due in part to the ubiquity of mobile device users and the currently limited number of publicly available mobile device charging stations mobile device users may still have great difficulty locating a public charging station available for use. Consequently a mobile device user runs the risk of his mobile device battery being exhausted before locating an available station to recharge the mobile device.

Therefore the present invention provides for a user to be alerted of the locations of available public charging stations when the battery power level of his mobile device decreases to a low level. In particular when the battery power of the mobile device decreases below a predetermined threshold level for example 20 of its maximum power the mobile device may request from the server information of one or more registered businesses i.e. any place of business that includes a charging unit that house a charging station within a specified distance from the mobile device. The disclosed system and method also provide advertising opportunities for retailers the ability for retailers to drive traffic to a store or stores a mobile application such as a mobile application that would indicate and or suggest charging station locations and or that would monitor a user s use and the correspondent battery charge and the like

With reference to GPS satellites or other known mobile device locating technologies such as triangulation operate to determine a location of a mobile device that contains features some of which features may be available based upon the location data. As used herein mobile device may refer to cellular phones personal digital assistants tablets and the like. The mobile device may determine its location through the use of received GPS signals or through the use of a filter which may combine location data from the GPS signals and or from another system such as cell tower triangulation or a WLAN system in order to obtain a location or a more accurate location. The mobile device may be wirelessly coupled to server . The server may be communicatively coupled to a datastore as well as to a plurality of charging stations .

According to certain embodiments of the present invention the server periodically receives and stores location information associated with the mobile device . This location information may be sent from the mobile device pulled from the mobile device or obtained from another service that is able to determine the location of the mobile device e.g. Location Based Services LBS Assisted GPS A GPS eGPS GSM Localization Multilaterilization Radiolocation Trilateration etc. .

For example many public areas may provide Wi Fi access points that consumers are allowed to utilize. These access points may also be used to help ascertain the location of a user or his relation to publicly available charging stations. For example a Skyhook Wireless system may be used. This location information may be analyzed independent of or in conjunction with other forms of information or location information. For example Wi Fi location information may be particularly useful in certain indoor environments where other technologies e.g. GPS may have more difficulty functioning such as in a shopping mall housing a collection of retail businesses.

Embodiments of the present invention allow a mobile device user which may become registered with the system upon using the charging station for the first time to be alerted of the locations of available public charging stations when the battery power level of his mobile device decreases such as to a predetermined threshold level which may be automatically set or which may be previously set by the user. Accordingly when the battery power of the mobile device decreases below this predetermined threshold level for example 20 of its maximum power the mobile device may request from the server information of one or more registered businesses housing a charging station within a specified distance from the mobile device. Alternatively the location information of the mobile device may be sent to the server and compared with the location information of one or more of the registered businesses housing a charging station a list or a preferential list of registered businesses housing a charging station a list of registered businesses having charging stations and making offers to consumers that those businesses wish to be known to the consumers and the like.

By way of non limiting example only a mobile device user may be out in public shopping. Becoming occupied with his shopping the user may forget or neglect to check the battery power level of his mobile device. The system and method according to embodiments of the present invention may notify the user via his mobile device that the battery power of the device is indeed low and then may display to the user a nearby store which houses a charging station and that has a charging unit such as a charging locker available. In an embodiment of the present invention the mobile device app may display the number of charging stations available so a user does not waste time going to a charging station that does not have any ports available By being timely notified by the mobile device associated with the disclosed system and method the user may have enough time to locate and subsequently recharge his mobile device battery for continued use of his mobile device without having to cut short his shopping experience or risk losing operation of his mobile device. As a substantial benefit to a registered business housing the charging station the business may experience increased consumer traffic as potential consumers enter the business to recharge their phone and the opportunity to make targeted enticements to consumers having a known location proximate to the registered business.

As illustrated in data store stores user information in user database . This information may include shopping habits websites visited or frequently visited by the device mobile application on or frequently used on the device charging stations used or frequently used by the device and the like for a user of the mobile device . For example this information may include a number of times a particular user visited a certain store a length of time the user shopped in the store a number of coupons the user may have redeemed in that store as well as any other user data reflecting the shopping behavior of a customer.

A map database may also be included. This database may provide the background maps that are displayed on each user s mobile device and that correspond to an area or region around the user at the time the application is invoked i.e. when the user s mobile device battery is low . For example a map tile of the United States may provide an image of the continental U.S. that can be zoomed to display a regional street level map for any area in the U.S. The map may further be zoomed to display locations within a venue housing a collection of businesses. For example a user may be located within a mall and the application may be invoked due to his mobile device battery being low. The mobile device may display locations of retail stores within the mall which house available charging stations to charge the user s mobile device either upon zooming in on the application by the user or by a predetermined setting for displaying a location.

A location database may store geographic locations of charging stations and or geographic locations of mobile devices . A charging station database may store the current status of available lockers within any charging stations. This status may include a number of lockers of a particular charging station not currently in use or available for charging. The data store may also comprise a registered business database which may store information related to businesses currently registered with the charging system according to embodiments of the present invention. For example the business database may include approved advertisements or associated content describing respective registered businesses.

Different mechanisms may be mounted on the housing to enable a user to access lock and subsequently unlock an individual locker for charging his mobile device . These different mechanisms may allow the system to gather varying amounts of user information referred to above which may be stored in user database . For example a simple lock and physical key as known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be employed which may not facilitate much interaction by the user with the charging station and which consequently may limit consumer information able to be gathered by the charging station for return to the system .

Referring now to another mechanism which may allow for the collection of more user information employs the use of a keypad mounted to the housing . Coupled with a display and microcontroller not shown connected to an electronic lock not shown a user may be provided with instructions and options for charging his or her mobile device . For example the locker may be preprogrammed by the microcontroller not shown to accept a certain number of any selected sequence of keys entered by a new user when the electronic lock is unlatched i.e. the locker is open . The microcontroller not shown may be configured to accept the same sequence of keys first entered by the user causing the lock to unlatch allowing the user to remove his phone from the locker after use. This sequence of keys may also refer to user identifying information such as the user s telephone number.

The display may additionally or as the electronic key prompt the user for other identifying information for the collection and subsequent storage of user shopping information which may be valuable to retailers registered businesses. For example the display may prompt the user to enter his name a telephone number a name and or telephone number in conjunction with other information such as a security pin having 2 3 4 5 6 or more digits or the like.

By way of example upon entering his name using the keypad the display may prompt the user to enter his telephone number. It should be noted that other and or additional user identifying information may be gathered as a part of these instructions. This gathered information may be used to serve several purposes. One purpose may be to provide verification information that the user is indeed who he says he is such as by way of comparison to registered user information for system by way of verification with information stored in the mobile application having associated therewith the aforementioned map and battery charge level capabilities and or by comparison with personal information on the mobile device such as may be stored in association with the device s SIM card . Another purpose is to insure that only the user or an individual authorized by the user is able to access the mobile device from the locker after the mobile device has been locked in the given locker . Yet further and as mentioned above another purpose for the prompted user identifying information is to gather information about the user s shopping habits and or frequented registered businesses and or other information as described hereinthroughout which may be subsequently stored in user database as shown in .

Also as a security feature the display may display an image of which a user has previously selected upon initially accessing an available locker. For example the user may enter a telephone number and then either select or be shown an image such as a black dog. Upon returning to unlock the locker the user may be prompted to enter his phone number and then to select the appropriate image that matches the preselected image in order to unlock the locker.

It should be noted that any suitable type of user interface may be provided. For example the user interface may be a part of a display such as a touch screen liquid crystal display LCD and or may include a display and a separate or discrete keypad . Moreover it should be noted that any known methodologies of data entry may be employed alone or in combination including but not limited to a credit card or driver s license swipe telephone number or other data entry to a keypad a bar code or QR code scan or a biometric scan such as a fingerprint scan for example.

In certain embodiments upon entry of a telephone number for example the user may receive a SMS or MMS message by way of non limiting example containing further information as discussed throughout. For example the user may receive promotional information such as may be used upon reaching a business at which resides the charging units. The user may also receive a call to action such as to download the mobile app discussed herein.

Another mechanism which may be employed for accessing and using the charging station is a user interface in the form of a card reader not shown . The card reader not shown may accept any card identifying a particular mobile device user. The card reader not shown may be configured to accept a user credit card a driver s license or a consumer card issued by a particular retailer by way of non limiting example. In preferred embodiments the card reading is for identification and or data accumulation purposes and may or may not be for the purposes of charging the user a fee for usage of the charging station. For example the card reader not shown may comprise a magnetic card reader which upon swiping the user s card on the reader not shown may read the information contained on a magnetic stripe located on the user s card enabling the charging station to gather and process user identification information such as for secure access by the user to his device after charging and or to accumulate information about the user such as shopping habits of the user which as mentioned above may be stored by user database .

Still referring to in some embodiments of the present invention these interfaces may also provide another mechanism used to gather user and user shopping information as these interfaces are typically communicatively linked to the user s mobile device . Thus user information stored on or linked to the mobile device may be gathered via the interface if accessible to the charging station . It should be noted however that different information will be accessible based on different types mobile devices and mobile device security level as one of ordinary skill in the art understands. For example one skilled in the art will appreciate that the present mobile application resident on the charging mobile device may have access to that information on the device that would typically be available to an application developer developing applications as part of systems according to embodiments of the present invention via the application programming interface API for that device and device type. The above described locker access is further illustrated in .

In at least one embodiment in reference to provides a PhotoVerification process of a user of the system i.e. kiosk . If a user s initial security credentials are incorrect i.e. First Attempt Incorrect Second Attempt Incorrect then the kiosk can use a series of photos and or a Voice over IP conversation directly with the user to manually and or via facial recognition software verify the user s identity Please Wait We Are Using Surveillance Records To Verify Your Identity . If a match is determined to be made Match Verified then the user receives a Success screen and the process continues to . If a match is not made N then the process proceeds to an Offline process or locked state until a successful verification photo or otherwise or a manual unlock process is performed.

In further embodiments of the invention photo or video records of users may be stored remotely such as on an administration server which is accessed during the PhotoVerification process set forth herein. The administration server securely stores the user records and makes the user records available on an as needed basis utilizing secure communication lines. The processing power of a centrally located admin server is considered far greater than the processing power of the charging station or kiosk therefore the verification process time is much quicker and results in improved overall user satisfaction. In the event that a secure connection cannot be established with the administration server i.e. an Internet connection is down the authentication process for PhotoVerification would be halted and a user would be prevented from initiating the charge phone process. The lockers of the kiosk may detect when an actual phone or device is attached to a charging cable located within the locker. Via remote control such as from a command interface located at the administration server or some other remote location lockers of the kiosk may be unlocked or locked. Each locker may be configured to include interior lights like LED lights for personalization purposes. The actual LED colors and or configuration may be controlled as well from a remote location or associated with specific device users.

In another embodiment of the present invention the invention may provide a notification process. The notification process would be initiated upon the completion of a device being charged fully. Users may be notified in a myriad of different ways including but not limited to SMS text message to another phone email or the like.

Once a device is attached to the cable a negotiation process is undertaken termed the OptiCharge process. In this embodiment the charging board of the system automatically determines phone or device characteristics model battery and may alter the charging process based on this information. For example the charging board may be pre programmed with information pertinent to the device or may retrieve the information from an external server. Based on this information the charging process can provide the optimal amount of current to best charge the phone in the shortest amount of time.

In further embodiments of the invention when a PhotoVerification process is completed and a user is considered to be authorized and the locker is unlocked for use the locker may undergo a clear process. A clear process would be necessary in the event that a phone or device is detected to have not been connected to a charging cable or the like. A clear process would be initiated after a certain time or timeout a variable which could be set to a certain number of minutes e.g. 5 minutes .

Users may choose to enroll in user loyalty programs. Users may choose to enroll via the charging kiosk utilizing a graphical user interface provided at the kiosk. The loyalty program enrollment information may be stored in conjunction with the user information stored at the administration server or the like. Further via the graphical user interface a user of the system may participate in completing surveys or polls.

However embodiments of the present invention are not so limited as the notification area and or map may be of any known type may be tiled or windowed in any manner and or may be located anywhere on the display screen . In an embodiment of the present invention as illustrated in the user may toggle between the map view discussed herein and or a list view of location which may more clearly identify the most convenient location for the user. Such a list view may for example note the distance between the user and the provided locations and may be sorted for example from closest to furthest from the user geographically. Similarly using traffic reporting systems known to those skilled in the art the sorting may also account for travel time due to road conditions and may sort accordingly.

As further illustrated in ads may be served within aspects of the GUI and may for example be served with a list of possible locations. In an embodiment of the present invention the served ad may be in the form of a banner ad. The served ad may be used to self promote features and services provided by the present invention and or may be sold to third parties. Third party ads may be associated with one or more identified locations and may pertain to that location s particular goods services offered for sale. For example a location having a charging station may be predominately in the business of selling shoes and more particularly athletic shoes and may pay for the delivery of an ad promoting its business and or offering a coupon for the purchase of shoes. Such a promotion may for example offer an additional discount incentive based on use of the charging station .

As would be appreciated by those skilled in the art ads may also be delivered based on location and may be dynamically delivered based in user attributes. For example an ad may be served according to the proximate of a user to a location where the ad may be relevant whether or not the relevant location and or ad is related to a charging station location. Similarly an ad may be served based on the type of phone used by the user and or the apps loaded thereon or browsing history. For example the app of the present invention may query the bookmarks or other internet browsing activity logged on the user device and may use that information when serving an ad.

As would be appreciated by those skilled in the art ads may be scheduled with a start and end date over a specific time period. The use of revolving and or multiple ads may be presented to a user and may for example create a user specific playlist . Such ads may be configured as an attribute in such programs as KioWare for example e.g. MobileAdsCatId attribute .

Any selection of a location whether by selection of a graphically presented location a listed location name and or automatically delivered to the user may include a detailed map representation and or the option to obtain directions to the selected location as illustrated in . Information provided may also include location details including contact information and may allow for the sharing of the location information with other contacts through convention communication means such as email and texting for example and through social networks such as Facebook for example. As would be appreciated by those skilled in the art obtaining directions to the selected location may include launching a GPS aided mapping app which may be resident on the user device such as for example MapQuest or Google Maps which may give turn by turn directions to the user.

According to exemplary embodiments advertising content may also be provided to the user on the display screen such as via the mobile application. The advertising content may include instructions on how to take advantage of special offers or deals mentioned in the advertising content . For example upon reaching a charging location the user may either prior to recharging or upon at least partially recharging his device at the participating location show or play e.g. in the case of audio based advertising content the advertising content on the mobile device to the cashier or other staff at the advertised location such as to obtain any advertised prices offers or deals and or to be given a coupon or the like. In other embodiments as illustrated in the mobile device user may only have to mention that they received advertising content to receive any relevant special offers. In still other embodiments the user may be given a code such as a numeric code a keyword or password or other like indicator that once passed to a cashier or store personnel indicates to the store personnel that the user has indeed received a special offer on his device to use a charging station at that store. In yet further embodiments upon accessing the advertisement and or upon reaching the charging location a credit such as may be accessible only in the event of a purchase may be added to a shopper s card store card credit card user account or the like of that user.

Additionally in some embodiments advertising content may include an indication that the mobile device user is already heading toward or is likely to pass an advertised location. In other embodiments advertising content may include directions to the advertised location and or may link to a website of the location upon accessing by the user for example.

Situations may arise where multiple nearby businesses may house a charging station thus driving competition for the user s foot traffic and or for advertising content space and or business location recognition by icon on the user s mobile device display screen . Therefore the server not shown may employ a prioritization algorithm to determine which participating business or businesses gets to provide an advertisement and or location recognition by icon at any given time and location of the user s mobile device and or in what order advertisements are listed displayed or preferentially listed or displayed. This prioritization algorithm may be based on any number of factors which may include for example user shopping characteristics and a known relation such as a known preference to the items of a participating business or business type the relative location of the user and participating business the level of participation of the participating business in the disclosed systems and methods e.g. the fee amounts paid to house a charging station paid for user access via the mobile application paid for user data access and or accumulation or the like and the like. It should be noted however that these factors should not be so limited as the prioritization algorithm may apply other information related to consumers or businesses to determine the advertising content and or location recognition by icon to be displayed on the display screen at any given time.

In accordance with one or more embodiments described herein and with reference to there is shown a methodology operable by a system according to embodiments of the present invention. It is noted that numbers associated with the blocks of do not imply a particular order in which the corresponding steps are to be performed according to the method .

In step includes tracking location information of one or more respective mobile devices and charging station information. Step includes storing the location information of one or more respective mobile devices and charging station information. Based on the station location information and the mobile device location information determining at step a proximity of one or more charging stations to one or more respective mobile stations. Step may include monitoring a power level of the battery of the mobile device. Step may include alerting a user of the mobile device and providing the location information of the respective one or more charging stations to the mobile device. The location information may be provided to the mobile device based on a power level of the battery of the mobile device decreasing to a certain power level and or based on a determined proximity of one or more charging stations to the one or more mobile devices.

In accordance with the foregoing and as illustrated in the disclosed embodiments may provide a network such as may be formed by the disclosed charging stations registered or unregistered businesses which although shown in the figure as a shop may be any type of public or private business and mobile devices and more particularly as between communicative interconnectivity advertisers and user mobile apps. In an example of the disclosed systems and methods a user may download a mobile app to his device and may set a 20 level for battery recharging meaning the user will receive an alert from the mobile app once his phone has less than a 20 battery charge.

By way of non limiting example after charging his phone for the first time the user may be auto prompted to download the mobile app. Further the mobile app and or participation in the disclosed systems and methods may be free for consumers and available for a monthly fee to the registered businesses. Alternatively a fee may be charged to consumers or a charge to consumers may be affected by consumer actions. For example a user s willingness to accept view watch one or more advertisements or promotions may cause a modification such as a decrease or elimination of any fee due from consumers for the mobile app the mobile app services or the charging services. Moreover the present invention may be free to some businesses such as those willing to sponsor or host charging units but may be available at a fee to other businesses.

By way of further non limiting example the charging units kiosks lockers discussed throughout may be placed in a registered business subject to for example payment of rent. This and other costs to the charging unit provider may be recouped by charging consumers for the services discussed by accepting sponsorships by accepting advertisements or promotions to be provided to consumers which may be from the registered business ultimately used by the user and or from other registered businesses and or sponsors for a fee and the like. Additionally payment may be received for other occurrences such as revenue sharing. For example a credit card company such as VISA may sponsor a kiosk and thereby the kiosk may be free to use for consumers who swipe a VISA card. For users who do not hold a VISA card the use of the unit may be free to those consumers if they agree to apply such as conveniently through an electronic interface at the kiosk for a VISA card. Upon receipt of an application for a VISA card VISA may pay a fee to the kiosk provider.

Continuing with the foregoing example upon receiving a recharging alert the mobile app may provide the user with a map or similar interface showing local charging stations having charging units available to the user. Further the mobile app may provide such as on the map or in a list or secondary window in conjunction with the map an indication of ones of the registered businesses with local charging available and which are making special offers such as sales coupons targeted offers based on the user s history in the mobile app and or on the device more generally and or unique deals for users of the present invention.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate in light of the disclosure herein that the aforementioned mobile app may serve principally or exclusively to monitor a mobile device charge and alert a user to a need for recharge i.e. the disclosed mobile app may be a stand alone mobile app for alerting a user to a low device batter charge. Such a mobile app may provide the alert when the battery charge falls below a predetermined threshold which threshold may be preset or entered by the user as discussed herein.

Returning now to the foregoing example once the user selects one of the registered businesses the user may seek out and or be directed to the selected business. Upon arrival the user may or may not be provided with advertising at the charging station such as by a display associated with the station. Further the user may be asked such as via the same display or via a second display to enter user information to secure the user s device once placed into a charging unit. Additionally or alternatively the charging unit may secure the device by a physical key.

Via any user entered information and or via any information gained from the phone through the communicative plug of the phone upon recharging and or via a profile entered by the user such as into the mobile app and or via the user history a user profile may be created. For example redeemed deals and special offers made in the mobile app may be tracked by the disclosed system as an indication of user product and service preferences. The profile may be maintained by the system discussed above and may allow for targeted marketing both of the charging services discussed herein and of third party goods and services such as those provided by the registered business and or by other businesses. For example geo targeted ads may be offered via the mobile app.

Further the user s time in store is thereby increased as the user shops while awaiting a recharge. The user is also provided with a differentiated enhanced customer shopping experience that increases consumer loyalty.

Moreover the accumulation of user data and profiles such as including user shopping data provides the aforementioned and other data mining opportunities through the use of the present invention. For example the accumulation of data may be indicative of users usage of GPS and or GPS invoking apps and the affects thereof on battery life. The accumulated data may also indicate battery life by device type by usage type or the like and may thus serve as a research tool for device manufacturers or as a purchase tool to the extent the information is publicly available for a user and or for a non user. Of course availability of such recommended purchase data only to users of the mobile app may drive non users to obtain the mobile app.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium and preferably on a non transitory computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

As illustrated in a graphical user interface GUI associated with the present invention may be provided through an app which may be obtained through any convention means such as through an app store for example. Although certain features offered through the GUI may be activated and or deactivated by the user at any desired time the app may prompt the user to allow for location based services to provide the most useful user experience in relation to the features described more fully herein.

The GUI may provide an indication of the charge capacity and the charge remaining in at least one battery and or battery cell associated with mobile device . The GUI may also include indicators as to page and or content amount and the location of the user among such options. For example as illustrated in pagination of the GUI may be exemplified by the use of small circles which may allow the user to more easily navigation between screens of the GUI. Although many forms of navigation may be used in a preferred embodiment the user may toggle between GUI pages by swiping to the left and or to the right.

As illustrated in search functionality may be presented through the GUI and used to identify the closest charging location to the user. If for example there are not locations within a defined range of the searcher which range may be predefined or set by the user the app may collect that information and allow such information to be collected by a third party administrator to inform the administrator of user desired locations. Similarly such information may allow for the delivery of ads based on the users location and may allow for the delivery of ads outside the network of ads related to charging locations. Furthermore a user may select a proximity distance which may be selected from a list having mile mile 1 mile 2 miles 5 miles and or 10 miles as choices.

As discussed herein the charging status of the phone may be brought to the attention of the user and as illustrated in such alerts may be customized by the user. The user may activate and deactivate any alerts and may for example select a desired level of battery charge for which an alert may be triggered. For example a user may choose that an alert as to battery life by presented when at least one of the batteries has only about a 30 charge remaining. Although any level of charge may be used to activate an alert a user may select between 10 and 80 default is 30 preferably in increments of 10 . As would be appreciated by those skilled in the art a battery may fluctuate over time and the percentage charge may be considered an approximation rather than an absolute direct measurement of remaining charge.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

