---

title: Providing group call priority access in LTE and priority access for user equipments with dual access classes
abstract: The disclosure relates to determining priority access with dual access barring classes. An aspect receives, at a client device, at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class, switches to the low priority access barring class, receives an access barring message, and switches to the high priority access barring class in response to receiving the access barring message. An aspect receives a call request for a high priority call among a group of client devices, transmits a notification to a network instructing it to transmit an access barring message in response to receiving the call request, wherein one or more members of the group of client devices switch to a high priority access class in response to receiving the access barring message, and suppresses call announcements for non-priority call requests after transmitting the notification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09408134&OS=09408134&RS=09408134
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09408134
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150707
---
The present Application for Patent is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 012 931 entitled PROVIDING GROUP CALL PRIORITY ACCESS IN LTE AND PRIORITY ACCESS FOR USER EQUIPMENTS WITH DUAL ACCESS CLASSES filed Aug. 28 2013 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 695 780 entitled PROVIDING GROUP CALL PRIORITY ACCESS IN LTE AND PRIORITY ACCESS FOR USER EQUIPMENTS WITH DUAL ACCESS CLASSES filed Aug. 31 2012 and which are assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention relate to providing group call priority access in Long Term Evolution LTE and priority access for user equipments UEs with dual access classes.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

A cellular system may support broadcast multicast and unicast services. A broadcast service is a service that may be received by all users e.g. news broadcast. A multicast service is a service that may be received by a group of users e.g. a subscription video service. A unicast service is a service intended for a specific user e.g. voice call. Group communications can be implemented using either unicast broadcast multicast or a combination of each. As the group becomes larger it is generally more efficient to use multicast services.

Certain cellular systems offer group priority access thereby improving the chance of high priority group members being able to access the network by reducing the access channel collision. This is achieved by preventing other low priority users from performing channel access procedures when a select high priority group call is placed.

LTE networks support access barring by broadcasting the class es or categories of subscribers barred from network access on a cell by cell basis as indicated in the system information block SIB message. UEs are provisioned with one or more access classes and if at least one access class on the UE is permitted access based on the SIB message the UE is allowed to perform access attempts. The typical use of access class based barring is to categorize users into two ranges the range that is barred from access and the remaining set that is allowed access.

The disclosure relates to determining priority access with dual access barring classes. A method for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes receiving at a client device at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class switching to the low priority access barring class receiving an access barring message and switching to the high priority access barring class in response to receiving the access barring message.

A method for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes receiving a call request for a high priority call among a group of client devices transmitting a notification to a network instructing it to transmit an access barring message in response to receiving the call request wherein one or more members of the group of client devices switch to a high priority access class in response to receiving the access barring message and suppressing call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification.

An apparatus for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes logic configured to receive at a client device at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class logic configured to switch to the low priority access barring class logic configured to receive an access barring message and logic configured to switch to the high priority access barring class in response to receiving the access barring message.

An apparatus for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes logic configured to receive a call request for a high priority call among a group of client devices logic configured to transmit a notification to a network instructing it to transmit an access barring message in response to receiving the call request wherein one or more members of the group of client devices switch to a high priority access class in response to receiving the access barring message and logic configured to suppress call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification.

An apparatus for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes means for receiving at a client device at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class means for switching to the low priority access barring class means for receiving an access barring message and means for switching to the high priority access barring class in response to receiving the access barring message.

An apparatus for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes means for receiving a call request for a high priority call among a group of client devices means for transmitting a notification to a network instructing it to transmit an access barring message in response to receiving the call request wherein one or more members of the group of client devices switch to a high priority access class in response to receiving the access barring message and means for suppressing call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification.

A non transitory computer readable medium for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes at least one instruction to receive at a client device at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class at least one instruction to switch to the low priority access barring class at least one instruction to receive an access barring message and at least one instruction to switch to the high priority access barring class in response to receiving the access barring message.

A non transitory computer readable medium for determining priority access with dual access barring classes includes at least one instruction to receive a call request for a high priority call among a group of client devices at least one instruction to transmit a notification to a network instructing it to transmit an access barring message in response to receiving the call request wherein one or more members of the group of client devices switch to a high priority access class in response to receiving the access barring message and at least one instruction to suppress call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs 1 . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs 1 . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE 4 or UE 5 over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffSery Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In LTE data and overhead information are processed as logical channels at a Radio Link Control RLC layer. The logical channels are mapped to transport channels at a Medium Access Control MAC layer. The transport channels are mapped to physical channels at a physical layer PHY . Table 2 lists some logical channels denoted as L transport channels denoted as T and physical channels denoted as P used in LTE and provides a short description for each channel.

As shown in Table 2 different types of overhead information may be sent on different channels. Table 3 lists some types of overhead information and provides a short description for each type. Table 3 also gives the channel s on which each type of overhead information may be sent in accordance with one design.

The different types of overhead information may also be referred to by other names. The scheduling and control information may be dynamic whereas the system and configuration information may be semi static.

System information is provided by Radio Resource Control RRC function and is structured in master information blocks MIBs and system information blocks SIBs . A MIB is transmitted in fixed location time slots and includes parameters to aid the UE in locating the SIB Type 1 SIB1 scheduled on the DL SCH e.g. DL bandwidth and system frame number . The SIB1 contains information relevant to scheduling the other system information and information on access to a cell. The other SIBs are multiplexed in System Information Messages. A SIB Type 2 SIB2 message contains resource configuration information that is common for all UEs and information on access barring. The evolved universal terrestrial RAN E UTRAN controls user access by broadcasting access class barring parameters in a SIB2 message and the UE performs actions according to the access class in its universal subscriber identity module USIM .

All UEs that are members of access classes one to ten are randomly allocated mobile populations defined as access classes 0 to 9. The population number is stored in the SIM USIM. In addition UEs may be members of one or more of five special categories access classes 11 to 15 also held in the SIM USIM. The standard 3GPP TS 22.011 section 4.2 defines these access classes as follows 

A UE is allowed to perform access procedures when the UE is a member of at least one access class that corresponds to the permitted classes as signaled over the air interface. The UEs generates a random number to pass the persistent test in order for the UE to gain access. To gain access a UE random number generator s outcome needs to be lower than the threshold set in the ac BarringFactor. By setting the ac BarringFactor to a lower value the access from regular users is restricted. The users with access class 11 to 15 can gain access without any restriction.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . Where the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include logic configured to receive at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class and or logic configured to receive an access barring message. In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. Where the communication device corresponds to a network based server the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include logic configured to receive a call request for a high priority call among a group of client devices logic configured to transmit a notification to a network instructing it to transmit an access barring message in response to receiving the call request wherein one or more members of the group of client devices switch to a high priority access class in response to receiving the access barring message and or logic configured to suppress call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example where the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device the logic configured to process information can include logic configured to switch to the low priority access barring class and or logic configured to switch to the high priority access barring class in response to receiving the access barring message. Where the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server the logic configured to process information can include logic configured to suppress call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification. The processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access points used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

With conventional network access priority there is a lack of ability to leverage higher access priority for UE s with dual access priority. For example it may desirable for a user to have one access priority during work hours and another access priority during off work hours. Conventional network access priority solutions also lack UE originated group priority for unicast calls. Additionally conventional solutions lack access barring upon commencement of group calls. Further they lack page call announcement suppression for non priority users in cells where access barring is being performed.

As an example it would be beneficial to allow public safety users to gain priority access when they are off work and use the same device at work and off work. Such a device would need to have dual access classes. To further improve the access barring capability for a targeted group of users out of the set of UEs within the higher access class such as first responders and public safety users only the UEs that belong to the advertised group are allowed to perform access. It would also be beneficial to allow call originators with higher priority to initiate access barring in a target area. It would further be beneficial to reduce pages call announcements for low priority users in the target area to improve the access of high priority UEs.

The second step is the establishment of an application oriented traffic bearer i.e. packet priority allocation using the QoS class identifier QCI and the allocation and retention priority ARP . At the UE requests a dedicated traffic bearer for the application. This includes a GBR or N GBR traffic bearer and QoS priority mechanisms such as the QCI i.e. 1 to 9 GBR and N GBR which has associated priorities 1 to 9 where 1 is the highest. This also includes the ARP priority which has a value from 1 to 15 where 1 is the highest. The ARP also indicates the preemption capability yes no and the preemption vulnerability yes no .

However high priority users may not need and or should not be provisioned with high priority access at all times. For example public safety users need high priority access while on duty but not necessarily when they are off duty. Conventionally when off duty during an access barring condition such devices also get priority access which may not be desirable.

Accordingly an embodiment provides UEs with dual access priority. Specifically a UE on the universal integrated circuit card UICC can be provisioned with two radio access classes a high priority access class and a low priority access class. For example public safety users can be provisioned with a high priority access class such as access class 15 for when they are on duty and a low priority access class such as access class 2 for when they are off duty. The network sends access barring information in the SIB2 message and the UEs perform access barring based on the SIB2 message reception. The UE uses the higher access class only when the user requires high priority such as when the user is on duty for public safety services. For all off duty times the device only uses a lower access class.

For UE originated calls such as a public safety user originating a call the UE uses the highest access priority assigned to perform access procedures. The UE also notifies the application server using the call signaling messages at the application layer that the call is a high priority call and the participants must be given access priority in a predefined geographic location.

For mobile terminated calls on receipt of the call signaling the application server contacts the LTE infrastructure such as core network in to update the SIB2 message in the predefined geographic location to enforce the radio access barring. Once the access barring is broadcasted in the SIB2 message UEs with the higher access class receive priority access. For UEs with dual access classes e.g. off duty public safety users the UE switches from the lower priority access class e.g. commercial with access class 2 to the higher access class e.g. access class 11 on receipt of the SIB2 message. If the UE is part of the group the UE receives the page call announcement and is able to access the network.

For page call announcement suppression when access barring is applied to a geographic location the MME s serving the location will suppress UE pages call announcements for UEs that have a lower access class than the access class of the high priority call.

At when no priority groups are active or no access barring is enforced the SIB2 message indicates no access barring and normal operation ensues. At UEx C which has a high priority access class and a regular low priority access class i.e. dual priority completes a low priority call i.e. a call with an access class for access procedures of less than 10. The user of UEx C may be an off duty public safety officer and because the user is off duty UEx C is in the regular low priority access class mode.

At a communications group of dual priority users represented as UEs1 . . . n B switch to their lower access classes either based on time a network event and or user action. For example if the users of UEs1 . . . n B are public safety officers UEs1 . . . n B may switch to their lower access classes when the users go off duty. This switch may be based on the time of day corresponding to the end of the users shifts or to direct user interaction such as manual priority mode selection.

At App Client A initiates a high priority call to the communications group represented as UEs1 . . . n B and transmits the call request to the application server indicating that the call requires high priority access. At the application server receives the high priority call request. Based on the priority policy the application server determines that the call requires priority access and notifies the core networks associated with UEs A C i.e. unicast networks and to advertise the SIB2 message with access barring. Alternatively the SIB2 message can also contain group identification information. In response unicast networks and transmit the access barring SIB2 message to the UEs A C.

At A the application server suppresses non priority call announcements. At B in response to receiving the notification from the application server the unicast network also suppresses non priority call announcements independently of the application server suppressing non priority call announcements at A. At in response to receiving the updated SIB2 message from the unicast network dual priority UEs1 . . . n B switch to their highest available priority access class. At low priority UEs or UEs that are not members of the high priority group such as UEx C perform access barring in response to receiving the SIB2 message.

At the App Client A determines whether it is a member of the high priority call which it is. At the application server sends the call announcement to the communications group of UEs1 . . . n B. At because the dual priority UEs1 . . . n B have a priority access class at least as high as the priority access class of the high priority call and or they are members of the high priority group they are permitted to access the network.

At the call is connected between App Client A and UEs1 . . . n B. At the call is completed and terminated. At the application server notifies unicast networks and to terminate access barring. In response unicast networks and transmit an updated SIB2 message. At A the application server stops suppressing call announcements and at B the unicast network also stops suppressing call announcements independently of the application server . At UEx C is allowed to access the network again.

At the client device receives at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class. The high and low priority access barring classes may be provisioned by a server such as application server the RAN such as RAN the network such as core network the network administrator the manufacturer of the client device or the like. At the client device switches to the low priority access barring class. The client device may switch to the low priority access barring class based on a time of day a network event and or user action.

At the client device receives an access barring message. A server such as application server transmits a notification to a network such as unicast network and or in instructing it them to transmit the access barring message in response to receiving a high priority call request. The access barring message may be a bitmask indicating a group of client devices permitted to access the network. The access barring message may be a SIB2 message. After transmitting the notification the server suppresses call announcements for non priority call requests. After receiving the notification the network suppresses call announcements for non priority call requests. The network may be a unicast network.

At in response to receiving the access barring message the client device switches to the high priority access barring class. Although the client device switches to its high priority access barring class it may not be able to access the network if the access barring message indicates a higher access barring class than the client device s high priority access barring class. At the client device receives a call announcement for a group call among a high priority group of client devices. Block is optional as the client device may not be part of the group call.

At the client device switches to the low priority access barring class upon termination of the group call. The server may transmit a notification to the network instructing it to terminate access barring in response to termination of the group call among the high priority group of client devices. The server may stop suppressing call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification. The network may stop suppressing call announcements for non priority call requests after receiving the notification.

At the server provisions a plurality of client devices with at least one high priority access barring class and at least one low priority access barring class. Block is optional as the access barring classes may alternatively be provisioned by the RAN such as RAN a network such as core network the network administrator the manufacturer of the client device or the like. The plurality of client devices may switch to the low priority access barring class in response to the provisioning. The plurality of client devices may switch to the low priority access barring class based on a time of day a network event and or user action.

At in response to receiving the call request the server transmits a notification to the network instructing it to transmit an access barring message where one or more members of the group of client devices may switch to a high priority access class in response to receiving the access barring message. The access barring message comprises a bitmask indicating that the group of client devices is permitted to access the network. The network suppresses call announcements for non priority call requests after receiving the notification. The network may be a unicast network such as unicast network or in . The access barring message may be a bitmask indicating a group of client devices permitted to access the network. The access barring message may be a system information block type 2 SIB2 message.

At the server suppresses call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification. At the server transmits a call announcement for the high priority call. At the server transmits a notification to the network instructing it to terminate access barring in response to termination of the high priority call. At the server stops suppressing call announcements for non priority call requests after transmitting the notification. The network may stop suppressing call announcements for non priority call requests after receiving the notification.

While the embodiments above have been described primarily with reference to 1 EV DO architecture in CDMA2000 networks GPRS architecture in W CDMA or UMTS networks and or EPS architecture in LTE based networks it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

