---

title: Personal information protection for navigation systems
abstract: Arrangements related to the protection of personal information associated with a navigation system are described. The navigation system can be operatively connected to a data store of personal information. The data store of personal information is locked so that access to and/or use of data stored in the data store of personal information is prevented. Responsive to a receiving a request to access the data store of personal information, a user is prompted to provide authentication to unlock the data store of personal information. Responsive to receiving authentication, it is determined whether the received authentication is correct or incorrect. The data store of personal information is unlocked if the authentication is correct. The data store of personal information remains locked wherein if the received authentication is incorrect. One or more types of authentication can be required.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489537&OS=09489537&RS=09489537
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09489537
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---
The subject matter described herein related in general to navigation systems and more particularly to protecting personal information used in connection with navigation systems.

Many vehicles include a navigation system. The navigation system may be installed in a vehicle as original factory equipment or as an aftermarket addition. Some navigation systems are configured as a portable unit allowing it to be selectively installed in and removed from one or more vehicles. Such portable navigation systems can also be used as handheld devices. Navigation systems can perform various functions. For instance a vehicle navigation system can be used to determine a current location of the vehicle and or determine a travel route between an origin and a destination. In some instances the navigation system may store data relating to past usage of the navigation system for quick retrieval in the future.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of protecting personal information associated with a navigation system. A data store of personal information can be operatively connected to the navigation system. The method can include locking the data store of personal information. Thus access to and or use of the data store of personal information is prevented. The method can also include responsive to a receiving a request to access a data store of personal information prompting a user to provide authentication to unlock the data store of personal information. The method can further include responsive to receiving authentication determining whether the received authentication is correct or incorrect. The data store of personal information can be unlocked if the authentication is correct. The data store of personal information can remain locked if the received authentication is incorrect.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for protecting personal information associated with a navigation system. The system includes a navigation system. The navigation system can include a data store of personal information and a processor operatively connected to the data store of personal information. The processor can be programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include locking the data store of personal information. Thus access to and or use of the data store of personal information is prevented. The executable operations can also include responsive to a receiving a request to access the data store of personal information prompting a user to provide authentication to unlock the data store of personal information. The executable operations can also include responsive to receiving authentication determining whether the received authentication is correct or incorrect. The data store of personal information can be unlocked if the authentication is correct. The data store of personal information can remain locked if the received authentication is incorrect.

This detailed description relates to protecting personal information associated with a navigation system. More particularly a data store of personal information associated with a navigation system can be locked. Responsive to receiving suitable authentication the data store of personal information can be unlocked for viewing access and or usage. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate one or more of such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can improve security of personal information associated with a navigation system.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example of a navigation system is shown. Navigation system means one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems modules applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to at least determine a current geographic location of the navigation system or a vehicle in which the system is located and or determine one or more travel routes between an origin and a destination.

Some of the possible elements of the navigation system are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the navigation system to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The navigation system can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the navigation system can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements the navigation system may not include one or more of the elements shown in . The various elements of the navigation system can be operatively connected to each other in any suitable manner. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact. Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The navigation system can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute processes including any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other.

The navigation system can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be a component of the processor or the data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby.

The one or more data stores can include one or more personal information data stores . The one or more personal information data stores can store one or more types of data relating to for personal information acquired by the navigation system and or input into the navigation system by one or more users. Personal information is any information that is related to one or more users of a navigation system and or past activities of one or more users of the navigation system. Examples of personal information include names home address other addresses any information that might identify a user past locations or addressed visited past origins past destinations past travel routes phone numbers prior search results prior search terms email addresses contacts contact history images photographs and or video just to name a few possibilities.

In some instances at least a portion of the navigation system can be used in combination with a communication device. The communication device can be operatively connected to at least a portion of the navigation system . The communication device can be for example a cellular phone a smart phone a tablet computer a computer a personal digital assistant or an entertainment device. In some instances the communication device can be an auxiliary communication device operatively connected to output calls received by another communication device thereon. In one or more arrangements the auxiliary communication device can be a handsfree device including for example a Bluetooth headset.

The communication device can be communicatively coupled to the navigation system by any suitable type of direct or network connection including any of those described herein as well as by Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy BLE Infrared Data Association IrDA Ultra wideband UWB Z Wave ZigBee and Near Field Communication NFC and or direct wireless or wired communication just to name a few possibilities.

Again the communication device can be used in connection with the navigation system . For instance the communication device can be operatively connected to output calls or messages an electronic mail message an instant message IM a Short Messaging System SMS etc. between the communication device and a recipient can be output on at least a portion of the navigation system received by the communication device on the navigation system a vehicle system and or a component shared with the navigation system e.g. on a speaker or on a display . In such case data related to such communications can be stored in the personal information data store . In one or more arrangements personal information stored on the communication device may be accessed by the navigation system and copied to and or stored on the personal information data store .

In one or more arrangements the personal information data store can be located on the navigation system . In such case the personal information data store can be a part of the data store or it can be separate from the data store . In one or more arrangements the personal information data store can be located in a source external to the navigation system that is accessible by the navigation system .

As will be described in greater detail herein the one or more personal information data stores can be locked. Locked means that access to a personal information data store is prevented the personal information data store is disabled and or the data stored in the personal information data store is encrypted or otherwise treated so that it is unreadable inaccessible and or unusable. In one or more arrangements the locking of the one or more personal information data stores can include any suitable encryption technology now known or later developed. The one or more personal information data stores can remain locked until suitable authentication is provided.

In one or more arrangements the navigation system may also require authentication to unlock or enable it for use. In such arrangements the locking and or unlocking of the personal information data store can be independent from the locking and or unlocking of the navigation system . Thus the personal information data store can be locked regardless of whether or not the navigation system itself is locked or is configured to be locked. Such arrangements can permit the navigation system to be used despite the personal information data store being locked. Further the data store of personal information can be locked regardless of whether or not other data stores of the navigation system or portions thereof are not locked or are not configured to be locked.

The locking of the personal information data store can occur at any suitable time. In one or more arrangements the one or more personal information data stores can be locked up startup or activation of the navigation system upon shutdown or deactivation of the navigation system start up or shut down of a vehicle that is operatively associated with the navigation system after a predetermined period of nonuse of the navigation system upon the navigation system entering a sleep mode when a request to access the personal information data store is received after each instance the personal information data store is accessed and or if the vehicle is determined to be in motion just to name a few possibilities. The locking of the personal information data store can be formed automatically or responsive to a user input or command. In one or more arrangements the personal information data store can be locked by the processor some other element and or combinations thereof.

In one or more arrangements the navigation system can include one or more user biometric data stores . The user biometric data store can include biometric data of at least one authorized user of the navigation system . The biometric data can include for example images scans sounds files measurements etc. The biometric data can be provided in any suitable format. In one or more arrangements the user biometric data store can be located on the navigation system . In such case the user biometric data store can be a part of the data store or it can be separate from the data store . In one or more arrangements the user biometric data store can be located in a source external to the navigation system that is accessible by the navigation system .

In one or more arrangements the user biometric data store can include one or more images of at least one authorized user of the navigation system . The images may be of one or more portions of the body of authorized user s of the navigation system . For instance the images can be of at least a portion of the face of an authorized user. Alternatively or in addition the images can be of at least a portion of one or more of the user s palms fingers eyes retinas and or irises. The images can be provided in any suitable format.

The navigation system can include a navigation module . The navigation module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement various processes described herein. For instance the navigation module can be configured to determine a current geographic location of the navigation system determine one or more travel routes between an origin and a destination and or determine one or more revised travel routes based on a changed condition e.g. route location traffic accidents road closures etc. . However it will be understood that the navigation system can be configured to determine other things as well.

The navigation module can be a component of and or executed on the processor or the navigation module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected. The navigation module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

In one or more arrangements the navigation module can include have access to and or can execute one or more mapping applications or map data to determine a travel route between an origin and a destination. The origin or destination can be provided in any suitable manner. For instance a user may input an origin and or a destination. Alternatively or in addition the navigation system may obtain the origin and or the destination in any suitable manner and or from any suitable source. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . Such parameters can be configured by a user or by some other entity.

The navigation system can include a positioning system which can include for example a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The positioning system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the positioning system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The positioning system may include a transceiver e.g. transceiver and or other transceiver configured to estimate a position of the navigation system or a vehicle in which the navigation system is located with respect to the Earth. For example positioning system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The positioning system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the navigation system or a vehicle in which the navigation system is located .

Alternatively or in addition the positioning system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the WC Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the navigation system or a vehicle in which the navigation system is located can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the navigation system or a vehicle in which the navigation system is located is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The navigation system can include one or more transceivers . A transceiver is defined as a component or a group of components that transmit signals receive signals or transmit and receive signals whether wirelessly or through a hard wired connection. The transceiver can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the personal information data store and or the user biometric data store . Any suitable transceiver can be used to access a network access point node or other electrical device for the transmission and receipt of data. The transceiver may be a wireless transceiver using any one of a number of wireless technologies. Examples of suitable transceivers include a cellular transceiver broadband Internet transceiver local area network LAN transceiver wide area network WAN transceiver wireless local area network WLAN transceiver personal area network PAN transceiver body area network BAN transceiver WiFi transceiver WiMax transceiver Bluetooth transceiver 3G transceiver 4G transceiver ZigBee transceiver WirelessHART transceiver MiWi transceiver IEEE 802.11 transceiver IEEE 802.15.4 transceiver or a Near Field Communication NFC transceiver just to name a few possibilities. The transceiver can include any wireless technology developed in the future. Again the transceiver can include one or more transceivers and can be any suitable combination of transceivers including any combination of the transceivers noted above. However it will be understood that arranged described herein are not limited to wireless transceivers. Indeed the transceiver can be configured for wired network connections.

The navigation system can include a biometric collection system . The biometric collection system can include a camera. Camera is defined as any device component system or element that can capture visual data e.g. image s or video s . The camera can include a lens and an image capture element. The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a linear array sensor a CCD monochrome . The image capturing element may capture color images and or grayscale images. The image capture element may also include any suitable filters. Alternatively or in addition to the camera biometric collection system can include a biometric scanner and or a biometric sensor that can collect biometric data e.g. retinal iris facial palm and or fingerprint data from a user. Thus for example the biometric collection system can include a camera a retina scanner an iris scanner a face scanner a palm scanner and or a fingerprint scanner. In one or more arrangements the biometric collection system can include a voice recorder or other audio capture device or element to collect a sample of a user s voice.

The navigation system can include a biometric recognition module . The biometric recognition module is any device component system or element or groups thereof that can identify a biometric sample collected from a user. The biometric recognition module can include have access to and or be operatively connected to the one or more user biometric data stores .

In one embodiment the biometric recognition module can include a facial recognition module and the user biometric data stores can include images of at least one authorized user of the navigation system . The facial recognition module can include and or have access to the user images. The user images may be of one or more portions of the body of authorized user s of the navigation system . For instance the images can be of at least a portion of the face of an authorized user. Alternatively or in addition the images can be of at least a portion of one or more of the user s palms fingers eyes retinas and or irises. The images can be provided in any suitable format.

The biometric recognition module can include any suitable biometric recognition software. The biometric recognition software can analyze a biometric sample from the user received by the biometric collection system . The biometric recognition software can query the user biometric data store for possible matches. As will be described in more detail below the personal information data store can be unlocked if there is a match between the collected user biometric sample and an item in the user biometric data store .

As an example the biometric recognition module can include any suitable facial recognition software. The facial recognition software can analyze an image which can be captured by a camera not shown . The facial recognition software can query the user biometric data stores for possible matches. For instance images captured by a camera can be compared to any images in the user images in the user biometric data stores for possible matches. Alternatively or in addition measurements or other aspects of an image captured by the camera can be compared to measurements or other aspects of any images in the user biometric data stores .

Again the facial recognition is provided in the way of an example. It will be understood that the biometric recognition module is not limited to having facial recognition technology. Indeed alternatively or in addition to being configured for facial recognition the biometric recognition module can be configured for iris recognition retina recognition palm recognition fingerprint recognition voice recognition and or other biometric recognition just to name a few possibilities. The above description of the facial recognition is equally applicable to these other types of biometric recognition.

The navigation system can include an input system . An input system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be entered into a machine. The input system can receive an input from a user e.g. a person a vehicle occupant etc. . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The navigation system can include an output system . An output system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be presented to a user e.g. a person a vehicle occupant etc. . The output system can include one or more visual outputs including for example one or more displays. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include one or more audial outputs including for example a microphone earphone and or speaker.

One or more components may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system . For example a display may serve as both a component of the input system and as a component of the output system .

In one or more arrangements the navigation system can include a sensor system . Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense something. In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other or one or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the personal information data store the user biometric data store the navigation module and or other element of the navigation system .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example in one or more arrangements the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess and or sense a predetermined input or signal. The predetermined input or signal can include unidirectional communications from an external source. Any suitable sensor s can be used depending on the predetermined input.

In one embodiment the one or more sensors can be configured to detect signals from a Near Field Communication NFC source or other source such as a beacon or transponder. Any suitable type of signal can be detected. For instance the sensor system can be adapted to detect specific radio frequency RF signals. In such case the sensor system can be adapted to detect RF signals emanating from a signal beacon or transponder. The sensor system can receive such RF signals if the device is located sufficiently proximate thereto. Again RF signals are provided merely as an example as the sensor system can be adapted to detect other types of signals.

In addition to the the sensor system the navigation system may also include a signal transmitter not shown . In such case the navigation system itself can act like a signal beacon as signals can emanate from the signal transmitter. The signal transmitter can be adapted to produce signals that cause one or more specific transponders to respond. Thus if the navigation system is located sufficiently close to a transponder then the transponder can send a response which can be received and detected by the sensor system .

The navigation system may include a component interface . Additional elements can be operatively connected to the component interface including for example a universal serial bus USB or other interface. The navigation system may include a power supply . Any suitable power supply can be used including for example a battery.

The navigation system can be used in connection with a vehicle. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In some implementations the vehicle may be a motorcycle watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

When the navigation system is operatively associated with a vehicle it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to and or remote from the vehicle. In one or more arrangements one or more of the elements of the navigation system can be provided together as a navigation unit that can be used in connection with the vehicle. In one or more arrangements such a navigation unit can be installed in the vehicle. In one or more arrangements such a navigation unit can be a portable navigation unit that can be selectively installed and removed from a vehicle. In such case the navigation unit can be selectively used in a plurality of vehicles as a handheld device and or in one or more non vehicular applications.

Further one or more components of the navigation system may also serve as a component or system of the vehicle. For instance the navigation system may use an in vehicle display that may also be a display or interface for another vehicle system e.g. a radio or audio system and or a display or monitoring system .

According to arrangements described herein the personal information data store can be locked. As a result access to and or use of the information stored in the personal information data store is prevented. Such locking of the personal information data store can be implemented regardless of whether the navigation system is locked or unlocked. Thus even if the navigation system is unlocked or is otherwise not configured or enabled to be locked the personal information data store will remain locked. However in such case the navigation system can otherwise be used.

The personal information data store can be locked until correct authentication is provided. Correct authentication means user provided authentication that exactly matches a predetermined authentication. In some embodiments correct authentication can also mean that the user provided authentication and the predetermined authentication match within a predetermined probability such as at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 or greater or confidence level. The navigation system can be configured to store the predetermined authentication in any suitable location and in any suitable manner. The predetermined authentication can be input using any suitable user interface provided by the navigation system including for example a settings screen.

Any suitable type of authentication can be provided to unlock the personal information data store . For instance the authentication can be a password. The term password includes passwords pass codes personal identification numbers PINs and or pattern locks. Alternatively or in addition the authentication can be a predetermined signal such as a specific radio frequency RF signal. Alternatively or in addition the authentication can be a biometric identifier. Still other forms of authentication are possible. The user provided authentication can be input or collected using any suitable user interface provided by the navigation system .

In one or more arrangements the navigation system can be configured so that only one form of authentication is required to unlock the personal information data store . In one or more arrangements the navigation system can be configured so that two or more forms of authentication are required to unlock the personal information data store . The type of authentication and or the quantity of authentication can be set by default by a user or by some other entity.

Now that the various potential systems devices elements and or components have been described various methods for protecting personal information associated with a navigation system will now be described. Referring now to one example of a method of protecting personal information operatively associated with a navigation system is shown. A data store of personal information being operatively connected to the navigation system. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block the data store of personal information can be locked. As a result of the locking access to and or use of the data store of personal information is prevented. The locking can be performed automatically or upon user input including in any of the manners described herein. In one or more arrangements the locking of the data store of personal information can be performed irrespective of whether the navigation system is locked or unlocked. The method can continue to block .

At block a request to access or use the data store of personal information can be received. Such a request may occur while a user is operating the navigation system . For instance a user may wish to search for an address in a list of contacts stored on the data store of personal information . In response to receiving such a request a user can be prompted to provide one or more forms of authentication to unlock the data store of personal information . The method can continue to block .

At block one or more forms authentications can be received. In response to receiving authentication it can be determined whether the received authentication is correct or incorrect. Any suitable form of authentication can be provided including any of those described above e.g. password predetermined signal biometric sample etc. . The data store of personal information can be unlocked if the authentication is correct. As a result of such unlocking the user can have access to or use of the data or information included in the data store of personal information . The data store of personal information can remain locked wherein if the received authentication is incorrect. As a result the user will not be able to access or use the data or information included in the data store of personal information .

A non limiting example of protecting personal information operatively associated with a navigation system in accordance with systems and methods described herein will now be presented in relation to .

Referring to an example of a system is shown. The system includes the navigation system operatively connected to a vehicle . In one or more arrangements the navigation system can be permanently or temporarily installed in the vehicle . In one or more arrangements one or more components of the navigation system can also be a component of the vehicle .

The system can also include a vehicle key . The vehicle key can be used directly or indirectly to selectively lock and unlock the vehicle in any known manner. Alternatively or in addition the vehicle key can be used at least in part to directly or indirectly selectively start and or the turn off the vehicle . The vehicle key can be any suitable type of key such as a traditional key a smart key a keyless entry unit etc. In one or more arrangements the vehicle key can include a signal generating element which can be for example a transponder or other element that can general a signal. The signal generating element can be any suitable signal generating technology now know or later developed. In one or more arrangements the signal generating element may also be used to disarm a vehicle immobilizer thereby allowing the engine of the vehicle to be started. The signal generating element can be embedded in the vehicle key itself or a housing for the vehicle key .

In one or more arrangements the system can further include a valet key . Valet key means any key that provides a lesser degree of functionality than a vehicle key. For instance the valet key may open one or more door locks of the vehicle and or may allow the vehicle to be driven. However there are some things that a user may not be able to do with the valet key . For example the valet key may not open a glove compartment of the vehicle . The valet key may not include a signal generating element.

The system shown in can be used to protect the personal information stored on or associated with the navigation system in various scenarios. For instance a user may have the vehicle parked by a valet service. The user may provide a valet with the vehicle key to do so. The valet can use the vehicle key to operate the vehicle . However according to arrangements described herein if the valet attempts to access the data store of personal information of the navigation system the valet will be prevented from doing so. The valet will be prompted to provide suitable authentication.

If the navigation system is configured to unlock based on detecting a signal from the vehicle key the user can provide the valet with the valet key which would not generate the predetermined signal or would otherwise not be recognized by the navigation system . As a result the data store of personal information will remain locked.

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be configured to require two or more types of authentication. Thus even if a user provides the vehicle key to the valet and if one of the types of authentication is a predetermined signal from the vehicle key the data store of personal information will remain locked unless a second type of authentication is provided.

As another example a user may allow a friend or family member to use the vehicle . In such case the user may provide the vehicle key to the other person. However the user may not want for such a person to view or have access to his or her personal information on the navigation system . Such access can be prevented by configuring the navigation system so that the predetermined signal from the vehicle key is not a recognized type of authentication. Alternatively if the predetermined signal from the vehicle key is a recognized type of authentication at least one other form of authentication can be required to unlock the navigation system . In these manners a user can allow another person to have full use of the vehicle and the navigation system except for access to and or use of the personal information data store .

Another non limiting example of protecting personal information operatively associated with a navigation system in accordance with systems and methods described herein will now be presented in relation to . As noted above when a request to access or use the data store of personal information is received a user can be prompted to provide authentication to unlock the data store of personal information. Any suitable form of prompting can be provided. For instance a user can be presented with an authentication input screen. shows one example of an authentication input screen . The authentication input screen can have any suitable form content and features. Thus it will be understood that the authentication input screen shown in is provided merely as an example and is not intended to be limiting.

In one or more arrangements the authentication input screen can be presented on a display of the navigation system and or the vehicle . The display can be a part of the output system and or the input system of the navigation system . In some arrangements the display can be a portion of another vehicle system such as a vehicle radio or audio system a backup camera display and or other vehicle monitor. A display is defined as a component or a group of components that present information data in visual form including for example video images graphics etc. In one or more arrangements the display can be located in a front interior portion of a vehicle. For instance the display can be included in a dashboard or instrument panel not shown of a vehicle.

The display can be any suitable type of display. The display can be any suitable type of display. For instance the display can be a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display or some other suitable display. In one or more arrangements the display can be a touch screen display a multi touch display or a remotely controlled display. A touch screen can allow a user to engage or interact with one or more displayed elements such as a graphical user interface GUI and or other applications running on any vehicle system including any of those described herein through contact with the display . For example a user may make selections and move a cursor by simply touching the display via a finger or stylus.

The authentication input screen can be configured to receive suitable user authentication to unlock the portal so as to permit access thereto. For example the user authentication input screen can provide user interface elements such as one or more fields to receive a user authentication input. In the example shown in the authentication can be a password. The password can have any quantity of characters and can be expressed in any suitable form.

Alternatively or in addition to any one or more of the above forms of authentication biometrics can be collected by a system component to authenticate a user. For instance retinal iris facial palm fingerprint and or voice recognition technologies can be implemented to authenticate a user. Thus the device can include a suitable camera scanner or sensor for retinal iris facial palm and or fingerprint recognition. The user input interface may include a microphone for voice recognition.

A biometric sample of the user can be collected. As an example an image of a portion of the user s body such as the face iris and or retina can be captured. To that end the camera a sensor or scanner can be activated and can be used to capture the image. In one embodiment the camera can be configured to capture an image of a portion of the user s body e.g. the user s face . To that end the camera and or the biometric collection system can be adapted to detect the relevant portion of the user s body.

The capturing of the image of a portion of the user s body may be performed automatically without providing notice to the user. Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can notify the user of the impending action to capture an image or make a scan. In some instances the navigation system can provide instructions to a user so that a suitable image can be captured. The camera can take a single image or a plurality of images.

Alternatively or in addition to capturing an image of a portion of the user s body other user biometric samples can be collected. Moreover arrangements described are not limited to the use of a camera. As an example the biometric sample can be a fingerprint or palm scan. To that end a fingerprint scanner or sensor can be used to collect at least a portion of one or more of a user s fingerprints and or palms. Alternatively or in addition the biometric sample can be the user s voice. In such case a sample of the user s voice can be collected by any suitable audio recording device.

Once collected the biometric sample of the user can be compared to the data store of user biometric data . Continuing the example of capturing a user image the captured image of the user can be compared to a database of user images. Such comparison may be done by facial recognition software or by some other software device component or system. If the captured image does not match any of the images in the database of user images then the data store of personal information can remain locked. On the other hand if the captured image of the user matches one of the images in the database of user images then the data store of personal information can be unlocked. In this context matches or match means an exact match between a user biometric sample e.g. the captured image and an item in a user biometric database e.g. an image in the database of user images . In some embodiments matches or match can also mean that the user biometric sample e.g. the captured image and an item in a user biometric database e.g. an image in the database of user images match within a predetermined probability such as at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 or greater or confidence level.

The arrangements shown in and elsewhere herein can be beneficial in numerous situations. As an example arrangements described herein can be beneficial if the navigation system or a vehicle containing the navigation system is stolen. Arrangements described herein can prevent a thief or other unauthorized user from obtaining personal information from the navigation system . For instance the navigation system may store data reflecting the name and home address of the user. Such information would be locked as described herein thereby preventing it from being viewed accessed and or used.

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can prevent personal information from being viewed accessed or used by an unauthorized user. Arrangements described herein can provide privacy and or security to a user. Arrangements described herein can provide comfort and peace of mind to a user that information or data input into the navigation system will be protected. The arrangements described herein can also minimize the possibility that personal information stored on a navigation system from being misused for fraud theft or other criminal activity. Arrangements described herein can be implemented without overly burdening a user of the navigation system. Further arrangements described herein can be implemented so that despite the data store of personal information being locked the navigation system can remain operable. Thus arrangements described herein do not interfere with the use of the navigation system.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

