---

title: Managing hidden security features in user equipment
abstract: A device determines whether a PTT application is authenticated to access a first API and a second API, and prevents the PTT application from accessing the first and second APIs when the PTT application is not authenticated. The device permits the PTT application to access the first and second APIs when the PTT application is authenticated, and modifies, via the first API, a timer that dictates when the device checks for traffic received from a network. The device establishes, via the second API, a data connection with the network, and determines, based on the data connection, a QoS framework for the network. The device utilizes the PTT application and the timer to establish a PTT session with another device via the network, and prioritizes, based on the QoS framework, PTT traffic provided in the PTT session with the other device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578507&OS=09578507&RS=09578507
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09578507
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151103
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. sec. 120 to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 057 970 entitled Managing hidden security features in user equipment which has a filing date of Oct. 18 2013 and which this application incorporates by reference in its entirety.

A push to talk PTT service provides direct one to one and or one to many audio communication. PTT may include a mechanism that provides instantaneous communication between parties and that utilizes a button to switch user equipment UE from a voice transmission mode to a voice reception mode. The operation of UEs in this manner may be similar to how walkie talkies operate. A PTT service may switch a UE from a full duplex mode where both parties may hear each other simultaneously to a half duplex mode where a single party may speak at one time. Multiple parties to a conversation may also be included. Availabilities of parties may be checked before a call with the help of a presence function.

In the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP the fourth generation 4G cellular network includes an evolved packet system EPS . The EPS may include a radio access network e referred to as long term evolution LTE network a wireless core network e.g. referred to as an evolved packet core EPC network an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS network and a packet data network PDN . The LTE network is often called an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN . The EPC network is an all IP packet switched core network that supports high speed wireless and wireline broadband access technologies. The EPC network allows UEs to access various services by connecting to the LTE network an evolved high rate packet data eHRPD radio access network RAN and or a wireless local area network WLAN RAN. The IMS network may include an architectural framework or network e.g. a telecommunications network for delivering IP multimedia services. The PDN may include a communications network that is based on packet switching.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Current 4G PTT applications use a public Internet connection with no quality of service QoS for PTT services. Without QoS a user s PTT experience may degrade when a network or a UE is busy and PTT traffic is queued up behind other traffic e.g. email video Internet etc. traffic . The user experience may be exemplified in what is called a push to hear delay which measures how quickly a user hears a beep after pushing the PTT button and how quickly the user s voice reaches a called party. Current 4G PTT applications have push to hear delays of approximately 1.5 to 2 seconds which creates a poor user experience.

However since the exposed APIs may affect battery life of the UE and may be susceptible to security threats the UE may include a security application that restricts access to the exposed APIs as further shown in . The security application may provide secure access to the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API by the PTT application and may prevent unauthorized applications from accessing the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API.

For example the security application ma include authentication credentials e.g. a signature a security token a security key or the like that may be utilized to authenticate applications attempting to access the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. The security application may request that a particular application attempting to access the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API provide a credential. If the credential provided by the particular application matches the credential of the security application the security application may authenticate the particular application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. When the PTT application is installed in the UE the PTT application may be provided with a credential that matches the credential of the security application. Therefore the security application may authenticate the PTT application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API as shown in . The security application may provide to an operating system of the UE a message indicating that the PTT application is authenticated for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API.

As further shown in the PTT application may request access to the IMS PDN API and the IMS PDN API may check with the operating system to determine whether the PTT application is authenticated. Since the PTT application is authenticated the IMS PDN API may grant the PTT application access to the IMS PDN API. The PTT may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish a data connection e.g. set up data routes with the PDN over the IMS network. Unlike the public Internet the IMS network may permit the UE to utilize quality of service QoS with respect to PTT sessions. In some implementations the QoS may include prioritizing PTT traffic over other types of traffic such as for example email video and Internet traffic. The QoS may improve a call setup time for establishing a PTT session and may improve a latency time associated with the PTT session.

As further shown in the PTT application may request access to the DRX cycle API and the DRX cycle API may check with the operating system to determine whether the PTT application is authenticated. Since the PTT application is authenticated the DRX cycle API may grant the PTT application access to the DRX cycle API. The PTT application may access the DRX cycle API in order to modify the DRX cycle timer provided in the DRX cycle API. In some implementations the PTT application may decrease the DRX cycle tinier so that the UE checks the EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently. This may enable the UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from the EPS such as an incoming PTT call which ma result in shorter call setup times e.g. relative to public Internet based PTT .

Such PTT enhancements may permit prioritization of PTT traffic over other types of traffic such as email video Internet etc. traffic. This may provide improved PTT call setup time and or latency time over current 4G PTT implementations which may improve the PTT user experience. For example the PTT enhancements may provide push to hear delays of approximately less than one second.

Implementations of the security application are described herein with respect to a PTT application and to particular APIs exposed for the purpose of enhancing the PTT application. However the security application may be utilized to provide secure access to one or more exposed APIs of the UE other than the particular exposed APIs described herein e.g. the MS PDN API and the DRX cycle API . For example the security application may be utilized to grant or deny the PTT application and or one or more other applications of the UE access to any exposed API of the UE. Furthermore although the PTT application is described herein in terms of PTT voice calls the PTT application may alternatively or additionally be utilized for PTT video calls.

As further shown in eNB may connect with MME over a S1 MME interface and may connect with SGW over a S1 U interface. MME may connect with SGW over a S11 interface and may connect with HSS over a S6a interface. SGW may connect with PGW over a S5 interface. PCRF may connect with PGW over a Gx interface PGW may connect with PDN over a SGi interface and may connect with P CSCF . Other connections not shown in may also be utilized by EPS . For example multiple MMEs may connect with one another over S10 interfaces.

UE may include a device that is capable of communicating over LTE network EPC network and or IMS network . In some implementations UE may include a radiotelephone a PCS terminal that may combine for example a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a PDA that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a workstation computer a personal computer a landline telephone or another type of computation and communication device.

EPS may include is a core network architecture of the 3GPP LTE wireless communication standard. EPS may include LTE network EPC network . IMS network and PDN .

LTE network may include a communications network that connects users e.g. UE to a service provider network. In some implementations LTE network may include a wireless local area network WLAN or another type of access network e.g. an E UTRAN or an eHRPD network . In some implementations LTE network may include a radio access network capable of providing a particular data rate a particular latency packet optimization a particular capacity and coverage etc.

eNB may include one or more computation and communication devices such as a base station that receive traffic from MME and or SGW and transmit that traffic to UE . eNB may also include one or more devices that receive traffic from UE and transmit that traffic to MME and or SGW or to other UEs . eNB may combine the functionalities of a base station and a radio network controller RNC in 2G or 3G radio access networks.

EPC network may include an IP packet switched core network that supports high speed wireless and wireline broadband access technologies. In some implementations EPC network may provide packet switched voice services e.g. which are traditionally circuit switched using IMS network and PDN .

MME may include one or more computation and communication devices that may be responsible for idle mode tracking and paging procedures e.g. including retransmissions for UE MME may be involved in a bearer activation deactivation process e.g. for UE and may choose a SGW for UE at an initial attach and at a time of intra LTE handover. In some implementations MME may authenticate UE . Non access stratum NAS signaling may terminate at MME and MME may generate and allocate temporary identities to UEs . MME may check authorization of UE to utilize LTE network and may enforce roaming restrictions for UE . MME may be a termination point in EPC network for ciphering integrity protection for NAS signaling and may handle security key management. MME may provide a control plane function for mobility between LTE network and other access networks with a S3 interface terminating at MME .

SGW may include one or more devices that route and forward user data packets may act as a mobility anchor for a user plane during inter eNB handovers and may act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies. For idle state UEs SGW may terminate a downlink data path and may trigger paging when downlink data arrives for UE . SGW may manage and store contexts associated with UE e.g. parameters of an IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. . In some implementations. SGW may include one or more traffic transfer devices or network devices such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a network interface card NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an optical add drop multiplexer OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic.

PCRF may include one or more computation and communication devices that provide policy control decision and flow based charging control functionalities. PCRF may provide network control regarding service data flow detection gating QoS and flow based charging etc. In some implementations PCRF may determine how a certain service data flow shall be treated and may ensure that user plane traffic mapping and treatment is in accordance with a user s subscription profile.

PG W may include one or more devices that provide connectivity of UE to external packet data networks by being a traffic exit entry point for UE . UE may simultaneously connect to more than one PGW for accessing multiple PDNs . PGW may perform policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful intercept and packet screening. PGW may also act as an anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies. In some implementations PGW may include one or more traffic transfer devices or network devices such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic.

IMS network may include an architectural framework or network e.g. a telecommunications network for delivering IP multimedia services. In some implementations IMS network may include a standardized reference architecture that provides session control a connection control and an applications services framework and user and services data.

HSS may include one or more computation and communication devices that provide a master user database that supports devices of IMS network that handle calls. HSS may contain subscription related information e.g. user profiles may perform authentication and authorization of a user and may provide information about a user s location and IP information.

P CSCF may include one or more computation and communication devices that function as a proxy server for UE where SIP signaling traffic to and from UE may go through P CSCF . In some implementations P CSCF may validate and then forward requests from UE and may process and forward responses to UE .

PDN may include one or more data communications networks that are based on packet switching as opposed to circuit switching that is used in public telephone networks. In some implementations PDN may be capable of communicating with UE over IMS network .

The number of devices and or networks shown in is provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions and or that is designed to implement a particular function. In some implementations processor may include multiple processor cores for parallel computing. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage component e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter which enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a high definition multimedia interface HDMI or the like.

Device may perform various operations described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more components of device .

As shown in process may include exposing an IMS PDN API and a DRX cycle API to a PTT application block . For example UE may include a PTT application that enables UE to establish and conduct PTT sessions with other UEs . In some implementations UE may include an IMS PDN API that enables UE to establish a data connection with PDN over IMS network as opposed to over the public Internet. For example the IMS PDN API may enable the PTT application to make a data connection with PDN over IMS network . In some implementations UE may include several hidden or unexposed APIs that may not be viewed or altered by applications provided in UE . However the IMS PDN API may be exposed by UE so that the PTT application may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish a data connection with PDN over IMS network .

In some implementations UE may include a DRX cycle API that controls a DRX cycle timer associated with UE . The DRX cycle timer may include a timer that dictates when UE checks a network for traffic e.g. UE may check a network for traffic after expiration of the DRX cycle timer . In some implementations the DRX cycle API may be exposed by UE so that the PTT application ma modify the DRX cycle timer. For example UE may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently. This may enable UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from EPS .

As further shown in process may include receiving by a security application a credential from the PTT application block . For example UE may include a security application that provides secure access to exposed APIs in UE . In some implementations the security application may provide secure access to the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API by the PTT application. In some implementations the security application may prevent unauthorized applications from accessing the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API.

For example the security application may include authentication credentials e.g. a certificate a signature an authentication key a security token etc. that may be utilized to authenticate applications attempting to access the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. The security application may request that a particular application attempting to access the EMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API provide authentication credentials.

In some implementations the PTT application may be installed in UE by a manufacturer of UE may be installed by a network service provider or may be downloaded and installed in UE by a user of UE . When the PTT application is installed in UE the PTT application may be provided with authentication credentials e.g. a signature and may provide the authentication credentials to the security application. The security application may receive the authentication credentials e.g. the signature .

As further shown in process may include determine whether the credential received from the PTT application matches a credential associated with the security application block . For example the security application may determine whether the authentication credentials received from the PTT application match the authentication credentials of the security application. In some implementations the authentication credentials of the security application may include a first signature associated with a first certificate a first private signing key and or a first public verification key. The authentication credentials of the PTT application may include a second signature associated with a second certificate a second private signing key and or a second public verification key. In such implementations the security application may determine whether the first signature matches the second signature. For example the security application may determine whether the first certificate matches the second certificate whether the first private signing key matches the second private signing key and or whether the first public verification key matches the second public verification key.

As further shown in if the credential received from the PTT application matches the credential associated with the security application block YES process may include authenticating the PTT application for accessing the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API block . For example if the authentication credentials provided by the PTT application match the authentication credentials of the security application the security application may authenticate the PTT application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. In some implementations when the PTT application is installed in UE the PTT application may be provided with authentication credentials that match the authentication credentials of the security application. Therefore the security application may authenticate the PTT application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API.

When the PTT application is authenticated for access to the PDN API and the DRX cycle API the PTT application may utilize anti or modify the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API. In some implementations the PTT application may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish a data connection e.g. set up data mutes with PDN over IMS network . The PTT application may utilize the data connection over IMS network to implement a QoS framework for PTT traffic associated with the PTT application.

In some implementations when the PTT application is installed in UE or when UE receives a tracking area update TAU a TAU may be performed periodically or when UE moves to another set of cells or tracking area from EPS the PTT application may access the DRX cycle API in order to modify the DRX cycle API. For example the PTT application may modify the DRX cycle timer provided in the DRX cycle API. In some implementations the PTT application may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently e.g. every so many milliseconds seconds minutes etc. . This may enable UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from EPS such as an incoming PTT call which may result in shorter call setup times e.g. relative to public Internet based PTT .

In some implementations the PTT application may restore the DRX cycle timer to a configurable default value based on particular conditions. For example the PTT application may restore the DRX cycle time to the default value when UE is connected to an access network other than LTE network e.g. when LTE connects to a wireless LAN WLAN . In such an example the PTT application may modify the DRX cycle timer again when UE reconnects to LTE network .

As further shown in if the credential received from the PTT application does not match the credential associated with the security application block NO process may include not authenticating the PTT application for accessing the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API block . For example if the authentication credentials provided by the PTT application fail to match the authentication credentials of the security application the security application may not authenticate the PTT application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API and may generate an error e.g. as security exception error . In some implementations another application of UE may maliciously or not maliciously attempt to access the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. The other application may not be provided with a credential that matches the credential of the security application. Prior to attempting to access the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API the other application may provide the non matching credential to the security application and the security application may not authenticate the other application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API.

In some implementations the security application may notify the operating system of UE of the result of the authentications. For example the security application may inform the operating system that the PTT application is authenticated for accessing the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API. In another example the security application may inform the operating system that the other application is not authenticated for accessing the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in . UE may include a security application that determines whether an application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . Security application may include as credential that is utilized to authenticate applications attempting to access IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . As further shown in PTT application may provide a credential to security application . Assume that security application determines that credential provided by PTT application matches credential of security application . Accordingly security application may determine that PTT application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API as indicated by reference number and may provide this information to an operating system of UE .

As further shown in PTT application may provide an access request to IMS PDN API and IMS PDN API may check based on access request with the operating system to determine whether PTT application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API . Since PTT application is authenticated PTT application may be granted access to IMS PDN API as indicated by reference number . PTT application may provide an access request to DRX cycle API and DRX cycle API may check based on access request with the operating system to determine whether PTT application is authenticated for accessing DRX cycle API . Since PTT application is authenticated PTT application may be granted access to DRX cycle API as indicated by reference number .

As shown in another application of UE may provide a credential to security application . Assume that security application determines that credential provided by the other application does not match credential of security application . Accordingly security application may determine that the other application is not authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API as indicated by reference number and may provide this information to the operating system.

As further shown in the other application may provide an access request to IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API may check based on access request with the operating system to determine whether the other application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . Since the other application is not authenticated the other application may be denied access to IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API as indicated by reference number .

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include modifying a DRX cycle timer with a PTT application and via a DRX cycle API block . For example the PTT application of UE may access the DRX cycle API and may modify the DRX cycle timer provided in the DRX cycle API. In some implementations the security application may provide secure access to the DRX cycle API by the PTT application. In some implementations the PTT application may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently. This may enable UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from EPS such as an incoming PTT call which may result in shorter call setup times e.g. relative public Internet based PTT .

As further shown in process may include establishing via an IMS PDN API and the PTT application data routes with a network block . For example the PTT application of UE may access the IMS PDN API and may utilize the IMS PDN API. In some implementations the security application may provide secure access to the IMS PDN API by the PTT application. In some implementations the PTT application may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish a data connection e.g. set up data routes with PDN over IMS network . Unlike the public Internet IMS network may permit UE to utilize QoS with respect to PTT sessions. The QoS may improve a call setup time for establishing a PTT session and may improve a latency time associated with the PTT session.

As further shown in process may include establishing a QoS framework with the network for prioritizing PTT traffic block . For example UE may connect to PDN over IMS network and via LTE network and EPC network . In some implementations the PTT application of UE may establish a QoS framework with EPS e.g. with IMS network that prioritizes PTT traffic associated with the PTT application. For example the PTT application may prioritize PTT traffic over best effort traffic e.g. email traffic video traffic Internet traffic etc. as the PTT traffic traverses IMS network and PDN .

In some implementations since the IMS PDN API may permit the PTT application to establish a data connection with PDN over IMS network the PTT application may utilize the data connection over IMS network to implement a QoS framework for PTT traffic associated with the PTT application. In some implementations QoS bearers may be defined in IMS network and may be set up statically when UE registers with IMS network . In some implementations the QoS bearers may be set up dynamically when UE utilizes the PTT application to make a PTT call.

In some implementations the PTT traffic may be prioritized after guaranteed bit rate GBR conversational audio e.g. voiceoverIP VoIP traffic before non GBR variable hit rate video traffic before non GBR standard video telephony video streaming and general best effort traffic and before non GBR machine to machine M2M traffic. By prioritizing the PTT traffic over the non GBR traffic the PTT application ma reduce latency times associated with PTT sessions.

As further shown in process may include utilizing the PTT application and the modified cycle timer to establish a PTT session with a UE block . For example UE may utilize the modified DRX cycle timer to check EPS for traffic such as a PTT call from another UE . When UE receives the PTT call from the other UE and UE may execute the PTT application based on receiving the PTT call. Based on the PTT call the PTT application may display information indicating that the other UE is trying to establish a PTT session with UE . If the user accepts the PTT call a PTT session may be established between UE and the other UE . If the user does not accept the PTT call a PTT session may not be established between UE and the other UE .

In some implementations the user may instruct UE to execute the PTT application and the user may utilize the PTT application to establish a PTT session with the other UE . In some implementations the PTT application may display a list of available PTT contacts associated with the user and the user may select a PTT contact associated with the other UE from the list. When the user selects the PTT contact the PTT application may cause UE to generate a PTT call destined for the other UE . In some implementations UE may provide the PTT call to the other UE via EPS . If the PTT contact accepts the PTT call a PTT session may be established between UE and the other UE . If the PTT contact does not accept the PTT call a PTT session may not be established between UE and the other UE .

As further shown in process may include prioritizing the PTT traffic during the PTT session based on the QoS framework block . For example during the PTT session UE may prioritize the PTT traffic over best effort traffic based on the QoS framework established with EPS in some implementations during the PTT session the other UE may also prioritize the PTT traffic over any best effort traffic associated with the other UE based on the QoS framework established with EPS . In some implementations the PTT traffic in the PTT session with the other UE may be prioritized before non GBR traffic such as for example variable bit rate video traffic standard video telephony traffic video streaming traffic general best effort traffic and M2M traffic. By prioritizing the PTT traffic over the non GBR traffic the PTT application may reduce latency times associated with PTT session with the other UE .

In some implementations the combination of the reduced DRX cycle timer the QoS framework for PTT traffic and other enhancements e.g. frame bundling of PTT traffic may provide improved PTT call setup time and or latency time over current 4G PTT implementations which may improve the PTT user experience for the users of UE and the other UE . For example the combination may enable the user of UE to experience push to hear delays of approximately less than one second during the PTT session with the other UE . In some implementations the combination may enable the user of the other UE to experience push to hear delays of approximately less than one second during the PTT session with UE .

As further shown in process may include determining whether the PTT application is uninstalled block . For example the security application may determine whether the PTT application is uninstalled or removed from UE . In some implementations the user of UE may utilize an uninstall function of UE to request that the PTT application be uninstalled. The uninstall function when implemented by the user may perform operations to uninstall the PTT application from UE . In some implementations the operating system of UE may notify the security application about any applications that are uninstalled from UE including the PTT application.

As further shown in if the PTT application is not uninstalled block NO process may include ending the PTT session with the UE block . For example if the security application determines that the PTT application is not uninstalled UE may continue to use the PTT application. In some implementations the user of UE may eventually end the PTT session with the other UE by selecting a mechanism e.g. an end call button icon link etc. displayed by the PTT application during the PTT session. In some implementations when the user of UE selects the end call mechanism UE may terminate the PTT session with the other UE and may display information associated with the PTT application to the user. In some implementations UE may display other information e.g. data associated with best effort traffic a home page etc. to the user when the PTT session is terminated. In some implementations the user of the other UE may end the PTT session with UE .

As further shown in if the PTT application is uninstalled block YES process may include utilizing the IMS PDN API to remove the data routes with the network block . For example if the security application determines that the PTT application is uninstalled from UE or if the PTT application is turned off or disabled e.g. by the user the security application may utilize the IMS PDN API to remove any data routes set up by the PTT application via the IMS PDN API. In some implementations the security application may utilize the IMS PDN API to remove any data connections e.g. data routes established with PDN over IMS network . In some implementations if the PTT application is turned on or enabled e.g. by the user the PTT application may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish another data connection e.g. set up data routes with PDN over IMS network .

As further shown in if the PTT application is uninstalled block YES process may include utilizing the DRX cycle API to reset the DRX cycle timer to a default value block . For example if the security application determines that the PTT application is uninstalled from UE the security application may utilize the DRX cycle API to reset the DRX cycle timer to a default value. In some implementations the security application may reset the DRX cycle timer to a configurable default value that may reduce battery usage in UE . For example the default value of the DRX cycle timer may include a value that causes UE to check EPS for traffic less frequently which may conserve battery usage in UE .

In some implementations if the PTT application is removed or uninstalled from UE or if the PTT application is turned off or disabled e.g. by the user the security application may reset the DRX cycle timer to a configurable default value that may reduce battery usage in LIE . For example the default value of the DRX cycle timer may include a value that causes UE to check EPS for traffic less frequently which may conserve battery usage in UE . In some implementations the security application may read a default DRX value that is being broadcasted by EPS and may use the default DRX value to change the DRX cycle timer of UE to the default value. This may reset the DRX cycle timer of UE to a default value which EPS wants devices to use e.g. when using the default value . In some implementations if the PTT application is turned on or enabled e.g. by the user the PTT application may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently e.g. every so many milliseconds seconds minutes etc .

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in while the user is creating an email message smart phone may check EPS for information e.g. received calls traffic etc. based on a modified DRX cycle timer as indicated by reference number . As further shown in a coworker of the user may be associated with a tablet computer and may utilize tablet computer to access a PTT application provided in tablet computer . Assume that the coworker utilizes the PTT application to generate a request for a PTT session with the user and smart phone . Tablet computer may provide request for the PTT session to EPS and EPS may forward request toward smart phone utilizing the QoS framework.

When request is received by smart phone smart phone may execute a PTT application provided in smart phone and may stop displaying email message . The PTT application may cause smart phone to display information associated with request such as the coworker s name the coworker s picture a mechanism to accept or deny request etc. Assume that the user utilizes the displayed information to accept request and establish a PTT session with tablet computer and the coworker as indicated by reference number in . When the PTT session is established the PTT application may cause smart phone to display a user interface that includes a picture of coworker a PTT button and an end call button. As further shown in the PTT application of smart phone may prioritize PTT traffic associated with the PTT session as indicated by reference number .

As shown in assume that the user selects the PTT button and begins talking to smart phone as indicated by reference number . The user s spoken voice may be provided by smart phone to tablet computer e.g. via EPS and may be heard by the coworker via tablet computer as indicated by reference number . As further shown in a delay time between when the user speaks and when the coworker hears the user s voice may be approximately less than one second as indicated by reference number .

As shown in assume that the coworker selects the PTT button and begins talking to tablet computer as indicated by reference number . The coworker s spoken voice may be provided by tablet computer to smart phone e.g. via EPS and may be heard by the user via smart phone as indicated by reference number . As further shown in a delay time between when the coworker speaks and when the user hears the coworker s voice may be approximately less than one second as indicated by reference number .

Either the user or the coworker may end the PTT session by selecting the end call button. When the end call button is selected smart phone and tablet computer may end the PTT session as indicated by reference number in . As further shown after the PTT session ends smart phone may resume displaying email message to the user and tablet computer may display a home page or some other information to the coworker.

Now assume that the user utilizes an uninstall function of smart phone to request that PTT application be uninstalled from smart phone . When the uninstall function is invoked smart phone may display a user interface to the user as shown in . User interface may ask whether the user wants to uninstall PTT application . Assume that the user selects a Yes button of user interface to indicate that the user wants to uninstall PTT application . When the user selects the Yes button smart phone may uninstall PTT application from smart phone .

After smart phone unistalls PTT application security application may receive e.g. from the operating system of smart phone a notification indicating that PTT application has been uninstalled from smart phone . Based on the notification security application may instruct DRX cycle API to reset the DRX cycle timer as indicated by reference number in and DRX cycle API may reset the DRX cycle timer to a default value. Based on the notification security application may instruct IMS PDN API to remove data routes established in EPS as indicated by reference number in and IMS PDN API may remove any data routes established with IMS network and PDN .

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

To the extent the aforementioned implementations collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

A component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in man different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

