---

title: Systems and methods for implementing instant social image cobrowsing through the cloud
abstract: In accordance with disclosed embodiments, there are provided methods, systems, and apparatuses for implementing instant social image cobrowsing through the cloud, including, for example, means for loading an application at the client device, the application displaying a graphical interface at the client device; receiving input at the graphical interface of the client device to initiate an instant share session; generating an action at the client device to request an instant share session; communicating the action from the client device to a remote host organization via a public Internet; receiving, at the client device, a pointer to a dynamically created co-browse site at the host organization responsive to communicating the action from the client device to the remote host organization; following the pointer to the dynamically created co-browse site at the host organization communicably linking the client device with the host organization; and exchanging a video telephony stream between the client device and a remote party through the dynamically created co-browse site. Other related embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444857&OS=09444857&RS=09444857
owner: salesforce.com, inc.
number: 09444857
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151110
---
This divisional application is related to and claims priority to the utility application entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IMPLEMENTING INSTANT SOCIAL IMAGE COBROWSING THROUGH THE CLOUD filed on Sep. 27 2013 having an application Ser. No. 14 039 689 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and is further related to and claims priority to the provisional utility application entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INSTANT SOCIAL IMAGE COBROWSING filed on Oct. 10 2012 having an application No. 61 711 916 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and is further related to the Utility application entitled WEB CO NAVIGATION filed on Feb. 13 2012 having an application Ser. No. 13 372 411 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to the field of computing and more particularly to systems methods and apparatuses for implementing instant social image cobrowsing through the cloud.

The subject matter discussed in the background section should not be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in the background section. Similarly a problem mentioned in the background section or associated with the subject matter of the background section should not be assumed to have been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in the background section merely represents different approaches which in and of themselves may also correspond to embodiments of the claimed inventions.

Conventional solutions exist in the marketplace today for establishing communications between two parties such as WebEx Communications Inc. as the provider of WebEx and also FaceTime by Apple Inc.

WebEx applications are built on the MediaTone platform intended to operate as a SaaS Software as a Service platform for online collaboration such as discussion forums document sharing and calendaring instant messaging and conferencing tools.

FaceTime provides videotelephony services for iOS and Macintosh computers. FaceTime is incompatible with non Apple devices and is incompatible with any other video calling services. FaceTime provides videotelephony call initiation through integration with existing contacts within a contacts application installed concurrently on such devices and supports connections through WiFi and cellular networks 3G or LTE subject to the carrier s discretion so long as the videotelephony call is placed to a phone number or email address that is registered to the FaceTime service. On iPad iPod Touch and Mac devices it is necessary to add a person as a contact using the FaceTime or Contacts app before the videotelephony call may be initiated.

The problem with such conventional solutions both WebEx and FaceTime is that a user is required to set up meeting number and ID in advance with a contact person that is already known and available within a contacts list or other such source. The pre arrangement requirement creates additional steps and complexity in addition to consuming time and the requirement that a contact person already be known fully negates the feasibility of interacting with an unknown target contact. While such a feature may seem counter intuitive it may nevertheless be beneficial to users within the certain contexts.

Further still conventional solutions such as WebEx and FaceTime require additional routing by the user through an alternate communication means typically this entails the user sending an invitation to another contact via email. Such a requirement again adds steps complexity and consumes time.

The present state of the art may therefore benefit from the systems methods and apparatuses for implementing instant social image cobrowsing through the cloud as described herein.

Described herein are systems methods and apparatuses for implementing instant social image cobrowsing through the cloud such as within an on demand service environment or a host organization which provides cloud computing services to mobile computing devices.

According to certain embodiments there is a host organization which provides cloud computing services capable to support the instant social image cobrowsing methodologies which are described in detail herein in addition to providing cloud based database services via a single a multi tenant database system which operates to store data on behalf of a multitude of paying subscribers each being a tenant of the database system hence the term multi tenant database system. Many subscribers e.g. users utilize the multi tenant database system to access stored data analytics charts reports GUIs forms executable user supplied code and corresponding results output and other such services as provided via the Cloud by using the computing architecture of the host organization including the multi tenant database system. The instant social image cobrowsing methodologies may further leverage the capabilities provided by the host organization and its multi tenant database system but are not required to do so.

Such systems devices and methods may include for example means for loading an application at the client device the application displaying a graphical interface at the client device receiving input at the graphical interface of the client device to initiate an instant share session generating an action at the client device to request an instant share session communicating the action from the client device to a remote host organization via a public Internet receiving at the client device a pointer to a dynamically created co browse site at the host organization responsive to communicating the action from the client device to the remote host organization following the pointer to the dynamically created co browse site at the host organization communicably linking the client device with the host organization and exchanging a video telephony stream between the client device and a remote party through the dynamically created co browse site.

Using conventional telephony solutions there is no means by which a user can establish an instant call with only the click of a button or the selection of an instant share icon consistent with the methodologies which are described herein. Further still users of conventional solutions must know in advance who they are connecting with must have such a contact available within their contacts management application they must know when they are connecting with such an individual typically through manual coordination and exchanges via email and then when they attempt to establish a telephony call it is necessary for the other party being contacted to answer or accept the incoming connection or with certain technologies it is necessary for the other party to also have called into a pre arranged telephony conference venue.

While such a model is very familiar to users it is nevertheless error prone time consuming and overly complex. Moreover it fully negates any feasibility whatsoever for a user to establish a telephony session with an unknown target contact much less establish such a session instantly.

Described herein are methodologies which disrupt these conventional norms and in doing so simplify the usage model on behalf of users through the reduction of user involved interactions which in turn reduces complexity and additionally enable users to create telephony sessions with parties whom are not present within an existing contacts list even unknown target parties that are unknown or unknowable to the user initiating the call and still further yet the users initiating such telephony sessions are enabled to create these telephony session instantly including from mobile devices such as smart phones and tablets etc.

Creating a telephony session with an unknown target party may on its face seem non intuitive however in certain contexts it can be an extremely powerful feature provided to such users and allow businesses to yield greater value to their most important customers. Consider for example a business which provides technology solutions to users say for example a business that provides printers to business users. Such business users are financially speaking more lucrative however they also require specialized support in exchange for their business dollars. A business user may encounter a need for support and faster easier and more seamlessly the business is able to yield support to that user the better the user experience will be which then in turn will translate to goodwill and likely improved business revenues.

Such a business user encountering a problem with their printer may very well be unaware of whom to call for support certain will not have pre arranged a time and meeting place to establish a telephony session and may not even know how to proceed with reaching support.

However using the described methodologies herein for implementing instant social image cobrowsing through the cloud that same business can provide a simple mobile app to the user who is then enabled to trigger an instant share session with appropriate support persons provided by the business. On the user s end the user simply opens an app and clicks an instant share icon and from the user s perspective they will be linked with a support person depending upon routing rules prioritization for that particular user prioritization for that particular product or scenario and so forth each of which are configurable by the business.

Thus for important clients customers users products and so forth routing and prioritization may be configured such that a user is routed immediately to an available support person which can then engage with that important client or customer and preserve or even improve the goodwill that exists between that particular client and customer.

In other embodiments users initiating a telephony session via an instant share feature of a supporting application may be routed differently. For example some customers may be ineligible and thus routed to a free support community forum. Other users may be routed according to contractual Service Level Agreements SLAs for instance they may have a tier or platinum plan which gets them 24 hour instant service. Other customers at a lower tier may be routed with priority but subject to capacity of the greater tier customers and clients. Still other customers may have no plan whatsoever but may nevertheless be routed to a live agent pursuant to payment of a flat or time based fee. Other users may be routed with priority given their association to a particular product regardless of service plan. For instance it may be that purchasers of a given class of printer car service etc. are routed according to the businesses determination of priority and importance to service those particular customers etc. It is further feasible route certain customers with special dispatch and priority based on their particular UserID based on their importance to the business in terms of revenue based on their position or role e.g. high level executives may be given special dispatch over non executives and so forth with such metrics being configurable by the business providing such support.

In certain embodiments a user initiating the instant share feature will be routed into a designated pool of support persons. In other situations the user may be contextually routed based on their affiliation to products services service tiers and so forth. For instance where a user purchased the aforementioned printer and this context information is known the user may be routed to an appropriate expert having knowledge as to that particular printer rather than requiring the user to provide such information verbally. In other embodiments users may be routed into a pool first and then escalated according to various criteria via a queue or escalation path based on for example time thresholds priority of the user or affiliation with given products and so forth.

More than the ability to create the telephony session via the instant share feature the user is further enabled to engage with the party via the telephony services such as the expert or support person in a more intuitive manner through the peripheral capabilities of their computing device. For instance using a smart phone tablet or other mobile computing device the user is able to point their device camera at a the problem for instance pointing the phone at the broken printer etc. and allowing the support person or expert to see in real time the nature and details of the problem from status light indicators error messages misconfigured cabling and so forth. Further still the user and the support person or expert may engage in discourse regarding the particular issue to be solved and further have a face to face telephony exchange through the respective cameras and displays of each parties computing device be it a smart phone tablet PC Kiosk or other appropriate device given the context of the user s request and the products and services being provided.

Another example may be that of tech support with an Internet Services Provider whom rather than making inquires to the user as to the status of LED lights on a router modem or Fiber Ethernet interface the user may initiate an instant share session as described and then at the request of the expert or support person the user may simply aim their device s camera toward the appropriate component be it their router modem or Fiber Ethernet interface PC laptop or whatever device is involved in the diagnosis. One could readily see such capabilities being utilized in many other support environments such as a lay person calling for emergency 911 type services calling poison control calling for fire police ambulance or that of a medical technician consulting with a doctor either as the originator or the expert servicer that of a patient seeking help from a nurse and so forth any of which would benefit from the instant share feature capabilities along with the audio and video telephony services which are then further enabled and integrated by using the instant share feature on appropriate devices which are many given the ubiquity of mobile devices with audio video input output capabilities in modern times.

In certain embodiments a host organization provides a mobile app to such a business for configuration and re deployment with the businesses own branding settings configurations escalation paths priority routing rules support pools and experts and so forth. For instance such a host organization may provide an Android platform app an iOS platform app or a Windows mobile platform app for configuration and branding by another third party which then re deploys such an app to its end users.

In one embodiment an end user having installed such an app on a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet initiates an instant share feature by opening the app provided to them and then clicking an instant share icon. Upon doing so the user is then connected to an expert or other support person in the manner described in further detail below subsequent to which the end user may then view the support person or expert on the screen of the end user s mobile device view other multi media on the screen of the end user s mobile device speak with the expert or support person through an audio microphone of the end user s mobile device convey the end user s image to the support person or expert via the camera of the end user s mobile device and convey products error messages cables or other video and images to the support person or expert via the camera of the end user s mobile device. Similarly the support person or expert may convey their likeness to the end user for display via the screen of the end user s mobile device and speak with the end user by transmitting to the audio device or speaker of the end user s mobile device. In other embodiments the methodologies described herein for implementing instant social image cobrowsing through the cloud may be provided by a third party without the aid of such a host organization which provides other on demand cloud based services.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific systems languages components etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that these specific details need not be employed to practice the embodiments disclosed herein. In other instances well known materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosed embodiments.

In addition to various hardware components depicted in the figures and described herein embodiments further include various operations which are described below. The operations described in accordance with such embodiments may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the operations. Alternatively the operations may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Embodiments also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations disclosed herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear as set forth in the description below. In addition embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the embodiments as described herein.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic devices to perform a process according to the disclosed embodiments. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc. a machine e.g. computer readable transmission medium electrical optical acoustical etc.

Any of the disclosed embodiments may be used alone or together with one another in any combination. Although various embodiments may have been partially motivated by deficiencies with conventional techniques and approaches some of which are described or alluded to within the specification the embodiments need not necessarily address or solve any of these deficiencies but rather may address only some of the deficiencies address none of the deficiencies or be directed toward different deficiencies and problems where are not directly discussed.

In one embodiment a multi tenant database system includes databases for example to store information such as tables datasets and underlying database records with user data on behalf of customer organizations A C or client devices A C. The host organization its production environment and its multi tenant database may operate cooperatively on behalf such client devices A C and their users to implement and utilize the instant sharing feature including for example providing for routing paths escalations prioritization rules service level agreement contractual adherence correct observance of priority escalation and routing according to paid service tiers or products intelligent video parsing analysis support of user community forums including auto publishing of recommended solutions to such communities queuing reporting expert location services attendee invites dynamic generation of co browsing sites including passing links and enabling the following of such links etc. Such services will be described in additional detail below.

According to the embodiment depicted at the multi tenant database system includes a plurality of underlying hardware software and logic elements that implement database functionality and a code execution environment within the host organization . In accordance with one embodiment multi tenant database system further implements databases to service database queries and other data interactions with the databases . The hardware software and logic elements of the multi tenant database system are separate and distinct from a plurality of customer organizations A B and C which utilize the services provided by the host organization by communicably interfacing to the host organization via network . In such a way host organization may implement on demand services on demand database services or cloud computing services to subscribing customer organizations A C.

Host organization may receive input and other requests from a plurality of customer organizations A C via network such as a public Internet . For example incoming instant share session initiation requests generated by a mobile app executing the client devices A C may be communicated to the host organization via the Public Internet or other network . Further still database queries API requests interactions with displayed graphical user interfaces and displays at the client devices A C or other inputs may be received from the customer organizations A C to be processed against the multi tenant database system or processed using the computing architecture of the host organization and its production environment .

In one embodiment each customer organization A C is an entity selected from the group consisting of a separate and distinct remote organization an organizational group within the host organization a business partner of the host organization or a customer organization A C that subscribes to cloud computing services provided by the host organization .

In one embodiment requests are received at or submitted to a web server within host organization . Host organization may receive a variety of requests for processing by the host organization and its multi tenant database system via the web server or other receive and request interface such as that depicted at element . Incoming requests received at web server may specify which services from the host organization are to be provided such as query requests search request status requests database transactions graphical user interface requests and interactions processing requests to retrieve update or store data on behalf of one of the customer organizations A C code execution requests and so forth. In other embodiments the requests receive are processed according to their context. For instance instant share feature requests from a mobile app may be serviced on the basis that the request is being sent pursuant to a user clicking on an instant share icon.

Web server may be responsible for receiving requests from various customer organizations A C via network and provide a web based interface or other graphical displays to an end user client device A C or machine originating such data requests . For instance the instant share feature may be provided as a plug in component to a mobile app may be provided as HTML5 or other web based display technology to a mobile device such as the client devices A C and so forth.

Authenticator operates on behalf of the host organization to verify authenticate and otherwise credential users attempting to gain access to the host organization.

Query interface provides functionality to pass queries from web server into the multi tenant database system for execution against the databases or other data stores of the host organization s production environment where necessary and appropriate. For instance routing rules policies escalation path information may be stored within the databases and are customizable on a per user per product or per customer organization basis causing the host organization therefore to pull such information from the databases when needed. In one embodiment the query interface implements an Application Programming Interface API through which queries may be executed against the databases or other data stores. Query optimizer performs query translation and optimization for instance on behalf of other functionality such as functionality of a graphical interface which possesses sufficient information to architect a query yet lacks the necessary logic to actually construct the appropriate query syntax. In other instances query optimizer modifies a submitted query to optimize its execution within the host organization without affecting the resulting dataset returned responsive to such an optimized query. Analysis engine operates on behalf of functionality within the host organization to perform additional data evaluation where necessary such as evaluating incoming requests from an instant share session initiation request for relevant context userID customer OrgID product associations SLAs pricing tiers and so forth. In other instances logic associated with the relevant displays at the client devices A C performs analysis or may cooperatively perform the analysis with the host organization or other cloud based services provider responsible for supporting use of the instant share feature.

Request interface further supports the return of response packets or other replies and responses in an outgoing direction from host organization to the client devices A C.

From the agent console at block the visitor s instant share request may be transferred to or conferenced with a relevant expert as depicted by the passing of message . The expert aids the visitor having originally initiated the instant share request and at block an appropriate solution is provided to the visitor here indicating Oh I see responsive to the aid provided by the expert . The solution is then maintained for future use as depicted by block .

Returning to agent console the alternate path may be taken in addition to the path through expert or may be taken alternative to the path through expert depending on routing rules priority for the visitor product affiliation escalation paths and so forth. Regardless the alternative path from agent console advances through the service cloud CRM Customer Relationship Management at block subsequent to which a case contact transcript is generated and maintained based on documented cases problems solutions and other resources available through service cloud CRM . Reporting at block documents the problem and solution and the solution is maintained as before as depicted at block .

Beginning with block as before a site visitor e.g. user is using their mobile device and at block the visitor clicks instant share at the mobile device but prior to advancing to routing at block the visitor s instant share request may be processed through intelligent video parsing and analysis at block which analyzes the video telephony stream from the visitor to determine if a recommended solution at block may be automatically recommended without advancing the visitor through to routing at block queuing at block and on to the agent console at block as in the example depicted at .

If the recommended solution at block is identified and automatically presented to the visitor e.g. by return display to the visitor s mobile device then it may be wholly unnecessary to engage the agent console at block or the expert via transfer to or conference with as depicted by the message being passed to the expert .

Moreover in such an embodiment where the intelligent video parsing and analysis at block results in the recommended solution being identified and auto presented to the visitor then processing may advance such that the recommended solution for the analyzed problem identified by the intelligent video parsing and analysis at block is posted or published to relevant community forum and support boards. In certain embodiments the posting or publishing to relevant community forum and support boards is a wholly automated process when the recommended solution is identified by the intelligent video parsing and analysis of block .

Processing then advances to block where the recommended solution from block is maintained as the solution to the problem at block .

If the intelligent video parsing and analysis at block fails to result in the recommended solution being identified and auto presented to the visitor then processing may advance as in with processing proceeding from the agent console at block to be transferred to or conferenced with a relevant expert which aids the visitor until an appropriate solution is provided to the visitor at block pursuant to which the solution is then maintained for future use as depicted by block or as before processing may proceed through the service cloud CRM at block through case contact transcript at block to reporting at block and then to block where the identified solution is maintained.

It is also possible for the visitor s routing to cause them to pass to the agent console at block and through either or both of the expert via an escalation path or other routing priorities or through the service cloud CRM at block or both while concurrently permitting the intelligent video parsing and analysis at block to identify the recommended solution and proceed with posting or publishing the recommended solution to the relevant community forum and support boards for the benefit of other visitors but not necessarily to be shared with or pushed to the visitor having originally initiated this particular instant share feature request at block . For instance the visitor s instant share feature request at block may be processed through the agent console and potentially expert without negating the capability of the host organization processing and analyzing such video information at block for future needs.

Within the graphical interface depicted here upon the smartphone or tablet computing device are several icons and actions including a branding icon upon which a business or other entity may customize their mobile application displayed at such a smartphone or tablet computing device with their own particular brand or other imagery a submit action permitting a user to proceed with submitting a request to a host organization expert support person or other such party a cancel action for use by a user should the user wish to cancel or terminate an event or submission without communicating the same to a host organization expert support person or other such party and then several submission icon types including an instant share icon a photo submission icon a video submission icon and a text submission icon .

Depending on how the user wishes to proceed the user may snap a photo of a problem for submission and then proceed with communicating the photo via the photo submission icon the user may record video of a problem for submission and then proceed with communicating the video via the video submission icon the user may create a text based message describing a problem for submission and then proceed with communicating the text based message via the text submission icon or the user may initiate an instant share request for support by clicking on the instant share icon which then triggers the processing as is described herein such that a user associated with appropriate priority rules escalation procedures product affiliation service tier level or other appropriate criteria is matched real time with a support person or qualified expert who may then assist the user by engaging with them through the smartphone or tablet computing device and its peripherals to display record render and capture audio video and so forth.

In certain embodiments each of the various icons described are provided as pluggable components by a host organization and are linked with the appropriate functionality to carry out the methodologies as described and a third party simply selects the icons they wish for inclusion with a mobile app for deployment to the third party s customers or user base along with appropriate branding where desired via branding icon and appropriate configuration of the appropriate priority rules escalation procedures product affiliation service tier level or other appropriate criteria for their given users to facilitate escalation and matching of users to experts or support persons in the manner which best fits the needs of the third party s business.

Thus beginning with the smartphone or tablet mobile computing device having executing thereupon a mobile app with the instant share icon and optionally the branding icon for customizing the mobile app a smartphone user presses touches selects clicks or otherwise activates the instant share icon which initiates the instant share feature request by causing an action to be generated and passed from the smartphone or tablet mobile computing device to the host organization such as a cloud services provider described previously with regard to at element . The host organization receives the action passed via receive interface which is outward facing to the network such as a public Internet and configured to receive these and other incoming messages and requests responsive to which the host organization will trigger a co browse site to be dynamically created or generated in support specifically of this smart phone user depicted for this particular action passed . Subsequent or additional instantiations of the instant share feature request by this smart phone user or other users would trigger the creation at the host organization of a different dynamically created co browse site.

The smart phone user s smartphone or tablet mobile computing device is then linked or communicably interfaced with the co browse site dynamically created by and at the host organization as is depicted by the dotted arrowed line between the smart phone user s smartphone or tablet mobile computing device and the co browse site dynamically created . The host organization generates interaction along with the dynamic creation of the co browse site on behalf of the smart phone user s instant share feature request instantiation and the interaction is then passed to the routing system as indicated by the forwarding arrows.

At the routing system the aforementioned routing rules e.g. routing priorities SLAs payment tiers product affiliations user classifications escalation rules and any other relevant criteria are applied to the incoming interaction passed such that the host organization may make the appropriate processing determinations to route and otherwise service the smart phone user s instant share feature request. For instance as detailed at each of the user may be placed through to a support person at an agent console element routed to an identified expert element or processed through the service cloud CRM element and or relevant support community element etc. The optional intelligence module is shown linked here which may perform the intelligent video parsing and analysis as described previously for instance to capture and document the problem for others within the service cloud CRM element and or relevant support community element as well as to provide an auto recommendation to the smart phone user where such a solution is identifiable via the video parsing and analysis and when the routing rules are so configured.

Where the routing rules permit the smart phone user to advance to a support person or expert the interaction passed is then advanced through to the escalation system along what is referred to as an escalation path. Here the host organization may apply an automated expert locator as depicted which is capable of then routing the interaction along to an appropriately identified expert or experts or the processing may be handled at this stage by an agent console as was depicted in the context of at element .

Having the smart phone user now paired or matched with the relevant expert s the interaction is delivered to the expert s which provides the expert s with a pointer to the dynamically generated co browse site. The pointer to the co browse site is then followed causing the expert s to then be linked or communicably interfaced with the co browse site dynamically created by the host organization in the same manner as was the smart phone user s smartphone or tablet mobile computing device. More particularly both the smart phone user and the expert s are now connected in common to the co browse site dynamically created by the host organization such that each may converse interact speak with one another via telephony services share documents images video audio and so forth as enabled by the instant share feature initiated by the user and without the user knowing in advance who the expert s are without having the expert s incorporated into a contacts manager of the smart phone user s smartphone or tablet mobile computing device without the smart phone user having pre arranged any meeting time or meeting place with the expert s and without any external manual coordination by the smart phone user with the expert s as to a meeting place time venue technology protocol etc. thus resulting in a simple user experience.

Processing may end here where the smart phone user reaches a satisfactory solution with the selected expert s . However additional optional processing is further enabled. For instance either the smart phone user or the expert s initially selected or both may invite other expert s participants users and so forth to participate in the now active instant share session at the co browse site dynamically created by the host organization such that all such parties may converse interact speak with one another via telephony services share documents images video audio and so forth.

Specifically the expert s may pass an optional invitation to other such experts participants users and so forth as depicted by the hashed line directed toward the optional invitee s at element and or the smart phone user may in a similar fashion pass an optional invitation to other such experts participants users and so forth as depicted by the hashed line directed toward the optional invitee s at element . If the optional invitee s accept then they may follow the pointer to the co browse site as did the initially selected expert s in the manner described above resulting in the optional invitee s now also being linked or communicably interfaced with the co browse site dynamically created by the host organization .

In such a way upon the smart phone user pressing the instant share icon the relevant interaction is routed through the escalation queue or path and through expert location services where an expert accepts the interaction and then in real time the smart phone user is interfaced to the expert without the smart phone user having to take any additional action whatsoever as the host organization applies the appropriate routing queuing selecting prioritization and routing rules and so forth on behalf of the smart phone user making the instant share feature request.

At the co browse site dynamically created by the host organization an auto built site is provided to host and deliver audio video telephony streams incoming and outgoing from the smart phone user the experts and any optional invitees without the parties having to manually configure or pre arrange such telephony services. Any party having been given the interaction and the link back to the co browse site dynamically created may then participate within a common venue in real time whether their participation is viewing listening speaking broadcasting audio and or video sharing documents etc.

In certain embodiments a user may utilize their smartphone or tablet mobile computing device as described but then additionally link into the co browse site dynamically created with another PC laptop computer second mobile device or other multimedia device simply by providing the optional invitation to the relevant device or user. For example video of the expert could be displayed on a laptop screen while simultaneously video of the smartphone or tablet mobile computing device s camera may be displayed via the touch screen display of the smartphone or tablet mobile computing device thus enabling the user to use to distinct screens for two different feeds traversing the same instant share feature session through the co browse site dynamically created .

In certain embodiments an initially selected expert pursuant to expert locator may again escalate a smart phone user to a different expert rather than inviting additional experts.

In certain embodiments HTML5 compliant display logic is utilized and the instant share icon is presented via an HTML5 compliant website or mobile app whereas in other embodiments such as those deployed exclusively via mobile apps native code may be used and in still others a hybrid of HTML5 compliant display logic and native display logic may be utilized.

In certain embodiments social network components are integrated such that a smart phone user may invite friends as the optional invitee s to participate real time in the instant share feature session with the selected expert s . In certain embodiments a user may select such friends to be invited through friend s contacts within a social network application co installed on the smartphone or tablet mobile computing device.

In certain embodiments where the optional intelligence module parses and analyzes video associated with the instant share feature session between the expert s and the smart phone user a recommended solution as described previously may be posted or published to relevant communities however an optional invitation may additionally be posted or published to the relevant support communities thus allowing forum and community users to follow a pointer to the co browse site and either participate or simply observe the instant share feature session in progress between the expert s and the smart phone user . For example the optional intelligence module may apply intelligence on the fly for parsing and analyzing video streams associated with the instant share feature session in progress and then match the video to contextually relevant portions of the community site or forum by pushing a recommended solution to the site and potentially pushing the optional invitation out to the site.

In the described embodiments co browse technologies allow for easy zero footprint website screen sharing and facilitate instant share feature sessions including video telephony services in the manner described. Telephony and video teleconferencing technology may involve initiating a call that is handled and routed by the host organization for connecting people together in a shared video environment be they users triggering the instant share feature request initially selected support persons and experts optional invitees forum participants social network friends other experts selected by the initial experts and so forth. In one implementation aspects of co browse technology may be combined with video capture technology or in low bandwidth situations image capture . Additional features methods and systems can then be provided so consumers have the ability to set up a you see what I see environment.

For instance when an instant share icon or button is pressed a co browse meet me site is built dynamically by and at the host organization and then the consumer is prompted to invite others to share their view if desired. The view may then be fed to Chatter Facebook Twitter or other designated social network lists where select people would receive instant invitations to share the view at the dynamically built site. Such a view may be a video troubleshooting session a restaurant menu or just a help me find my way I m lost type session.

In certain embodiments anybody can view the user s co browse view as long as they had the view code and were invited typically passed via optional invitations . In one implementation the view is captured by a real time recording capability for playback later. In a low bandwidth situation consumers may simply take pictures that are automatically uploaded to the co browse portal to constitute the view from the low bandwidth device.

In related embodiments video streams generated by users having initiated the instant share feature are recorded and shared with pushed to or published via a sharing site such as a community forum from where other members of the forum community may then view the video stream themselves and otherwise control the video stream by pausing re winding fast forwarding playing and re playing the video stream at their own local display even while the original video stream is on going between the user having initiated the instant share feature and the support person or expert. For instance a second user at a second computing device may wish to view and review the video stream for themselves despite not being a direct participant and such a user may do so even while the participants of the stream continue to engage via a video telephony stream between them as enabled through the dynamically created co browse site at the host organization. Such a second user is enabled to manipulate the recorded video stream by pausing rewinding playing fast forwarding etc. from the beginning of such a stream all the way up to and until the live as it happens portion of the video telephony stream being recorded. Thus the second computing device could fast forward until both a viewer at a second device and the participants of the video telephony stream are all at a concurrent position that is all parties are viewing the live stream as it happens.

There is according to a particular embodiment a method for instant social image cobrowsing in which the method includes at least providing dynamic and real time cobrowsing to users in a mobile environment and providing video capture ability to users in the mobile environment.

There is according to another embodiment a system for instant social image cobrowsing the system having therein at least a processor code stored in memory coupled to the processor in which the code when executed via the processor provides dynamic and real time cobrowsing to users in a mobile environment and further provides video capture ability to users in the mobile environment

In accordance with one embodiment there is a mobile computing device having at least a processor and a memory there to execute display logic and or instructions . According to such an embodiment the mobile computing device further includes a touchscreen display to display or render a graphical interface at the mobile computing device in which the processor is to load a mobile application at the mobile computing device such that the mobile application displays a graphical interface at the mobile computing device the touchscreen of the mobile computing device is to receive input to initiate an instant share session the mobile application is to generate an action at the mobile computing device to request an instant share session a network interface is to communicate the action from the mobile computing device to a remote host organization via a public Internet the network interface is to receive a pointer to a dynamically created co browse site at the host organization responsive to communicating the action from the client device to the remote host organization the mobile application is to follow the pointer to the dynamically created co browse site at the host organization communicably linking the client device with the host organization via the network interface and in which the mobile application is to exchange a video telephony stream between the client device and a remote party through the dynamically created co browse site. In one embodiment the video telephony stream is exchanged via a video telephony stream processing module at the mobile computing device .

Bus interfaces the various components of the mobile computing device amongst each other with the remote host organization via the network interface and with any other peripheral s of the mobile computing device .

According to another embodiment the mobile computing device is embodied within one of a tablet computing device or a hand held smartphone such as those depicted at .

With reference to and method at the client device processing logic loads an application at the client device the application displaying a graphical interface at the client device block .

At block processing logic receives input at the graphical interface of the client device to initiate an instant share session.

At block processing logic generates an action at the client device to request an instant share session.

At block processing logic communicates the action from the client device to a remote host organization via a public Internet.

At block processing logic receives at the client device a pointer to a dynamically created co browse site at the host organization responsive to communicating the action from the client device to the remote host organization.

At block processing logic follows the pointer to the dynamically created co browse site at the host organization communicably linking the client device with the host organization.

At block processing logic exchanges a video telephony stream between the client device and a remote party through the dynamically created co browse site.

According to another embodiment of method the client device having at least the memory and the processor therein is embodied within one of a tablet computing device a hand held smartphone and a mobile computing device.

According to another embodiment of method loading an application at the client device includes one of loading an android platform compatible mobile application at the client device loading an iOS platform compatible mobile application at the client device loading a Windows mobile platform compatible mobile application at the client device and loading an HTML5 compliant website within a web browser at the executing at the client device.

According to another embodiment of method loading an application at the client device includes loading a mobile application provided by a third party separate from the remote host organization in which the mobile application is branded by the third party and in which the mobile application is configured to interface with the remote host organization upon receiving the input at the graphical interface to initiate the instant share session.

According to another embodiment of method the action generated at the client device and communicated to the remote host organization is routed through an escalation path according to routing rules in which the routing rules determine a priority for escalating the instant share session to a live expert to participate as the remote party in exchanging the video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site.

According to another embodiment of method the live expert renders a satisfactory solution to a user of the client device via the video telephony stream exchanged between the client device and the remote party through the dynamically created co browse site and in which the video telephony stream is recorded by the host organization for later playback.

According to another embodiment of method the recorded video telephony stream is published to a community forum for reference as a solution to a specified problem.

According to another embodiment of method the action generated at the client device and communicated to the remote host organization is passed to a routing system to determine a priority for escalating the instant share session passed to an escalation system to apply the priority determined by expediting the request for an instant share session out of turn based on the priority determined and passed to an expert locator to identify one or more experts to participate as the remote party in exchanging the video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site.

According to another embodiment of method the experts send an optional invitation to other experts to participate as optional invitees in exchanging the video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site and in which the optional invitees accept the optional invitation by following a pointer to the dynamically created co browse site.

According to another embodiment of method a user of the client device sends an optional invitation to other users to participate as optional invitees in exchanging the video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site and in which the optional invitees accept the optional invitation by following a pointer to the dynamically created co browse site.

According to another embodiment of method the optional invitation to the other users to participate as optional invitees include at least one of friends from a social networking site professional colleagues from a business social networking site other users from a support forum or web community and co workers from an enterprise networking site.

According to another embodiment of method receiving input at the graphical interface of the client device to initiate an instant share session includes receiving a user input at an instant share icon displayed upon the graphical interface of the client device.

According to another embodiment of method exchanging a video telephony stream between the client device and a remote party through the dynamically created co browse site includes exchanging one or more of audio captured at the client device a user s voice and speech captured at the client device video captured at the client device audio communicated from the remote party through the dynamically created co browse site to the client device video communicated from the remote party through the dynamically created co browse site to the client device and still images or documents communicated from the remote party through the dynamically created co browse site to the client device.

According to another embodiment of method an intelligence module applies video parsing and analysis to the video telephony stream exchanged between the client device and the remote party through the dynamically created co browse site.

According to another embodiment of method the intelligence module identifies a recommended solution based on the video parsing and analysis applied to the video telephony stream and in which the intelligence module pushes the recommended solution to a user of the client device or publishes the recommended solution to a community forum for reference as a solution to a specified problem or both.

According to another embodiment method further includes authenticating a user of the client device with the host organization as a known subscriber and determining a priority for escalating the instant share session to a live expert to participate as the remote party in exchanging the video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site based on one of a UserID of the authenticated user a product affiliation of the authenticated user an OrgID to which the authenticated user belongs a Service Level Agreement contracted with the authenticated user a paid subscription plan as purchased by the authenticated user and a calculated customer value score determined by the host organization and correlated to the authenticated user.

According to another embodiment method further includes sending an optional invitation to a second client computing device accepting the optional invitation at the second client computing device to join the second client computing device into the video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site displaying video originated by the remote party at a display of the second client device and displaying video originated by the client device upon the graphical interface displayed to the client device.

According to a particular embodiment there is non transitory computer readable storage media having instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor of a client device the instructions cause the client device to perform operations including loading an application at the client device the application displaying a graphical interface at the client device receiving input at the graphical interface of the client device to initiate an instant share session generating an action at the client device to request an instant share session communicating the action from the client device to a remote host organization via a public Internet receiving at the client device a pointer to a dynamically created co browse site at the host organization responsive to communicating the action from the client device to the remote host organization following the pointer to the dynamically created co browse site at the host organization communicably linking the client device with the host organization and exchanging a video telephony stream between the client device and a remote party through the dynamically created co browse site

With reference to and method at the host organization processing logic receives an action generated by a client device remote from the host organization the action requesting an instant share session pursuant to an instant share icon selection at the client device block .

At block processing logic dynamically creates a co browse site at the host organization responsive to receiving the action requesting the instant share session from the client device.

At block processing logic determines a priority for escalating the action requesting the instant share session from the client device according to routing rules.

At block processing logic escalates the action requesting the instant share session from the client device according to the priority determined.

At block processing logic locates one or more experts to participate in a video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site.

At block processing logic communicably links the client device and the one or more experts to the dynamically created co browse site to exchange the video telephony stream.

According to another embodiment method further includes applying video parsing and analysis to the video telephony stream exchanged between the client device and the remote party through the dynamically created co browse site to identify a recommended solution pushing the recommended solution to the client device or publishing the recommended solution to a community forum for reference as a solution to a specified problem or both.

According to another embodiment method further includes recording the video telephony stream between the client device and the remote party as the video telephony stream progresses between the client device and the remote party storing the recorded video telephony stream within a multi tenant database system of the host organization as the video telephony stream progresses and sharing the recorded video telephony stream with a community forum as a solution to a problem.

According to another embodiment of method the recorded video telephony stream is controllable by a viewer of a second client device remote from the host organization while the video telephony stream progresses between the first client device and the remote party wherein controlling the video telephony stream by the viewer of the second client device includes one or more of i pausing the video telephony stream at the second client device as it progresses between the first client device and the remote party ii playing forward the video telephony stream at the second client device as it progresses between the first client device and the remote party iii rewinding the video telephony stream at the second client device for review as the video telephony stream progresses between the first client device and the remote party and iv fast forwarding the video telephony stream at the second client device as it progresses between the first client device and the remote party up to a the video telephony stream at the second client having a concurrent position with the video telephony stream at the first client device.

According to another embodiment of method determining a priority for escalating the action requesting the instant share session from the client device according to routing rules includes determining the priority for escalating the action based on one or more of a UserID of the of a user associated with the client device a product determined from a user associated with the client device an OrgID to which a user associated with the client device belongs a Service Level Agreement contracted with a user associated with the client device a paid subscription plan as purchased by a user associated with the client device and a calculated customer value score for a user associated with the client device as determined by the host organization.

According to another embodiment of method communicably linking the client device and the one or more experts to the dynamically created co browse site to exchange the video telephony stream includes sending a pointer to each of the client device and the one or more experts the pointer pointing to the dynamically created co browse site and receiving incoming connections at the dynamically created co browse site responsive to the pointer sent to each of the client device and the one or more experts.

According to another embodiment of method the client device is embodied within one of a tablet computing device a hand held smartphone and a mobile computing device.

According to another embodiment of method the host organization implements the method via computing architecture of the host organization including at least a processor and a memory in which the host organization operates as a cloud based service provider to the client device and in which the host organization provides a multi tenant database system via the databases and the computing architecture of the host organization the multi tenant database system having elements of hardware and software that are shared by a plurality of separate and distinct customer organizations each of the separate and distinct customer organizations being remotely located from the host organization.

According to a particular embodiment there is non transitory computer readable storage media having instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor of a host organization the instructions cause the host organization to perform operations including receiving an action generated by a client device remote from the host organization the action requesting an instant share session pursuant to an instant share icon selection at the client device dynamically creating a co browse site at the host organization responsive to receiving the action requesting the instant share session from the client device determining a priority for escalating the action requesting the instant share session from the client device according to routing rules escalating the action requesting the instant share session from the client device according to the priority determined locating one or more experts to participate in a video telephony stream with the client device through the dynamically created co browse site communicably linking the client device and the one or more experts to the dynamically created co browse site to exchange the video telephony stream.

Environment is an environment in which an on demand database service exists. User system may be any machine or system that is used by a user to access a database user system. For example any of user systems can be a handheld computing device a mobile phone a laptop computer a work station and or a network of computing devices. As illustrated in and in more detail in user systems might interact via a network with an on demand database service which is system .

An on demand database service such as system is a database system that is made available to outside users that do not need to necessarily be concerned with building and or maintaining the database system but instead may be available for their use when the users need the database system e.g. on the demand of the users . Some on demand database services may store information from one or more tenants stored into tables of a common database image to form a multi tenant database system MTS . Accordingly on demand database service and system is used interchangeably herein. A database image may include one or more database objects. A relational database management system RDMS or the equivalent may execute storage and retrieval of information against the database object s . Application platform may be a framework that allows the applications of system to run such as the hardware and or software e.g. the operating system. In an embodiment on demand database service may include an application platform that enables creation managing and executing one or more applications developed by the provider of the on demand database service users accessing the on demand database service via user systems or third party application developers accessing the on demand database service via user systems .

The users of user systems may differ in their respective capacities and the capacity of a particular user system might be entirely determined by permissions permission levels for the current user. For example where a salesperson is using a particular user system to interact with system that user system has the capacities allotted to that salesperson. However while an administrator is using that user system to interact with system that user system has the capacities allotted to that administrator. In systems with a hierarchical role model users at one permission level may have access to applications data and database information accessible by a lower permission level user but may not have access to certain applications database information and data accessible by a user at a higher permission level. Thus different users will have different capabilities with regard to accessing and modifying application and database information depending on a user s security or permission level.

Network is any network or combination of networks of devices that communicate with one another. For example network can be any one or any combination of a LAN local area network WAN wide area network telephone network wireless network point to point network star network token ring network hub network or other appropriate configuration. As the most common type of computer network in current use is a TCP IP Transfer Control Protocol and Internet Protocol network such as the global internetwork of networks often referred to as the Internet with a capital I that network will be used in many of the examples herein. However it is understood that the networks that the claimed embodiments may utilize are not so limited although TCP IP is a frequently implemented protocol.

User systems might communicate with system using TCP IP and at a higher network level use other common Internet protocols to communicate such as HTTP FTP AFS WAP etc. In an example where HTTP is used user system might include an HTTP client commonly referred to as a browser for sending and receiving HTTP messages to and from an HTTP server at system . Such an HTTP server might be implemented as the sole network interface between system and network but other techniques might be used as well or instead. In some implementations the interface between system and network includes load sharing functionality such as round robin HTTP request distributors to balance loads and distribute incoming HTTP requests evenly over a plurality of servers. At least as for the users that are accessing that server each of the plurality of servers has access to the MTS data however other alternative configurations may be used instead.

In one embodiment system shown in implements a web based customer relationship management CRM system. For example in one embodiment system includes application servers configured to implement and execute CRM software applications as well as provide related data code forms webpages and other information to and from user systems and to store to and retrieve from a database system related data objects and Webpage content. With a multi tenant system data for multiple tenants may be stored in the same physical database object however tenant data typically is arranged so that data of one tenant is kept logically separate from that of other tenants so that one tenant does not have access to another tenant s data unless such data is expressly shared. In certain embodiments system implements applications other than or in addition to a CRM application. For example system may provide tenant access to multiple hosted standard and custom applications including a CRM application. User or third party developer applications which may or may not include CRM may be supported by the application platform which manages creation storage of the applications into one or more database objects and executing of the applications in a virtual machine in the process space of the system .

One arrangement for elements of system is shown in including a network interface application platform tenant data storage for tenant data system data storage for system data accessible to system and possibly multiple tenants program code for implementing various functions of system and a process space for executing MTS system processes and tenant specific processes such as running applications as part of an application hosting service. Additional processes that may execute on system include database indexing processes.

Several elements in the system shown in include conventional well known elements that are explained only briefly here. For example each user system may include a desktop personal computer workstation laptop PDA cell phone or any wireless access protocol WAP enabled device or any other computing device capable of interfacing directly or indirectly to the Internet or other network connection. User system typically runs an HTTP client e.g. a browsing program such as Microsoft s Internet Explorer browser a Mozilla or Firefox browser an Opera or a WAP enabled browser in the case of a smartphone tablet PDA or other wireless device or the like allowing a user e.g. subscriber of the multi tenant database system of user system to access process and view information pages and applications available to it from system over network . Each user system also typically includes one or more user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse trackball touch pad touch screen pen or the like for interacting with a graphical user interface GUI provided by the browser on a display e.g. a monitor screen LCD display etc. in conjunction with pages forms applications and other information provided by system or other systems or servers. For example the user interface device can be used to access data and applications hosted by system and to perform searches on stored data and otherwise allow a user to interact with various GUI pages that may be presented to a user. As discussed above embodiments are suitable for use with the Internet which refers to a specific global internetwork of networks. However it is understood that other networks can be used instead of the Internet such as an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a non TCP IP based network any LAN or WAN or the like.

According to one embodiment each user system and all of its components are operator configurable using applications such as a browser including computer code run using a central processing unit such as an Intel Pentium processor or the like. Similarly system and additional instances of an MTS where more than one is present and all of their components might be operator configurable using application s including computer code to run using a central processing unit such as processor system which may include an Intel Pentium processor or the like and or multiple processor units.

According to one embodiment each system is configured to provide webpages forms applications data and media content to user client systems to support the access by user systems as tenants of system . As such system provides security mechanisms to keep each tenant s data separate unless the data is shared. If more than one MTS is used they may be located in close proximity to one another e.g. in a server farm located in a single building or campus or they may be distributed at locations remote from one another e.g. one or more servers located in city A and one or more servers located in city B . As used herein each MTS may include one or more logically and or physically connected servers distributed locally or across one or more geographic locations. Additionally the term server is meant to include a computer system including processing hardware and process space s and an associated storage system and database application e.g. OODBMS or RDBMS as is well known in the art. It is understood that server system and server are often used interchangeably herein. Similarly the database object described herein can be implemented as single databases a distributed database a collection of distributed databases a database with redundant online or offline backups or other redundancies etc. and might include a distributed database or storage network and associated processing intelligence.

User system network system tenant data storage and system data storage were discussed above in . As shown by system may include a network interface of implemented as a set of HTTP application servers an application platform tenant data storage and system data storage . Also shown is system process space including individual tenant process spaces and a tenant management process space . Each application server may be configured to tenant data storage and the tenant data therein and system data storage and the system data therein to serve requests of user systems . The tenant data might be divided into individual tenant storage areas e.g. tenant storage space which can be either a physical arrangement and or a logical arrangement of data. Within each tenant storage space tenant data and application metadata might be similarly allocated for each user. For example a copy of a user s most recently used MRU items might be stored to tenant data . Similarly a copy of MRU items for an entire organization that is a tenant might be stored to tenant storage area . A UI provides a user interface and an API provides an application programmer interface into system resident processes to users and or developers at user systems . The tenant data and the system data may be stored in various databases such as one or more Oracle databases.

Application platform includes an application setup mechanism that supports application developers creation and management of applications which may be saved as metadata into tenant data storage by save routines for execution by subscribers as one or more tenant process spaces managed by tenant management process space for example. Invocations to such applications may be coded using PL SOQL that provides a programming language style interface extension to API . Invocations to applications may be detected by one or more system processes which manages retrieving application metadata for the subscriber making the invocation and executing the metadata as an application in a virtual machine.

Each application server may be communicably coupled to database systems e.g. having access to system data and tenant data via a different network connection. For example one application server might be coupled via the network e.g. the Internet another application server might be coupled via a direct network link and another application server might be coupled by yet a different network connection. Transfer Control Protocol and Internet Protocol TCP IP are typical protocols for communicating between application servers and the database system. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that other transport protocols may be used to optimize the system depending on the network interconnect used.

In certain embodiments each application server is configured to handle requests for any user associated with any organization that is a tenant. Because it is desirable to be able to add and remove application servers from the server pool at any time for any reason there is preferably no server affinity for a user and or organization to a specific application server . In one embodiment therefore an interface system implementing a load balancing function e.g. an F5 Big IP load balancer is communicably coupled between the application servers and the user systems to distribute requests to the application servers . In one embodiment the load balancer uses a least connections algorithm to route user requests to the application servers . Other examples of load balancing algorithms such as round robin and observed response time also can be used. For example in certain embodiments three consecutive requests from the same user may hit three different application servers and three requests from different users may hit the same application server . In this manner system is multi tenant in which system handles storage of and access to different objects data and applications across disparate users and organizations.

As an example of storage one tenant might be a company that employs a sales force where each salesperson uses system to manage their sales process. Thus a user might maintain contact data leads data customer follow up data performance data goals and progress data etc. all applicable to that user s personal sales process e.g. in tenant data storage . In an example of a MTS arrangement since all of the data and the applications to access view modify report transmit calculate etc. can be maintained and accessed by a user system having nothing more than network access the user can manage his or her sales efforts and cycles from any of many different user systems. For example if a salesperson is visiting a customer and the customer has Internet access in their lobby the salesperson can obtain critical updates as to that customer while waiting for the customer to arrive in the lobby.

While each user s data might be separate from other users data regardless of the employers of each user some data might be organization wide data shared or accessible by a plurality of users or all of the users for a given organization that is a tenant. Thus there might be some data structures managed by system that are allocated at the tenant level while other data structures might be managed at the user level. Because an MTS might support multiple tenants including possible competitors the MTS may have security protocols that keep data applications and application use separate. Also because many tenants may opt for access to an MTS rather than maintain their own system redundancy up time and backup are additional functions that may be implemented in the MTS. In addition to user specific data and tenant specific data system might also maintain system level data usable by multiple tenants or other data. Such system level data might include industry reports news postings and the like that are sharable among tenants.

In certain embodiments user systems which may be client systems communicate with application servers to request and update system level and tenant level data from system that may require sending one or more queries to tenant data storage and or system data storage . System e.g. an application server in system automatically generates one or more SQL statements e.g. one or more SQL queries that are designed to access the desired information. System data storage may generate query plans to access the requested data from the database.

Each database can generally be viewed as a collection of objects such as a set of logical tables containing data fitted into predefined categories. A table is one representation of a data object and may be used herein to simplify the conceptual description of objects and custom objects as described herein. It is understood that table and object may be used interchangeably herein. Each table generally contains one or more data categories logically arranged as columns or fields in a viewable schema. Each row or record of a table contains an instance of data for each category defined by the fields. For example a CRM database may include a table that describes a customer with fields for basic contact information such as name address phone number fax number etc. Another table might describe a purchase order including fields for information such as customer product sale price date etc. In some multi tenant database systems standard entity tables might be provided for use by all tenants. For CRM database applications such standard entities might include tables for Account Contact Lead and Opportunity data each containing pre defined fields. It is understood that the word entity may also be used interchangeably herein with object and table. 

In some multi tenant database systems tenants may be allowed to create and store custom objects or they may be allowed to customize standard entities or objects for example by creating custom fields for standard objects including custom index fields. In certain embodiments for example all custom entity data rows are stored in a single multi tenant physical table which may contain multiple logical tables per organization. It is transparent to customers that their multiple tables are in fact stored in one large table or that their data may be stored in the same table as the data of other customers.

The exemplary computer system includes a processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. static memory such as flash memory static random access memory SRAM volatile but high data rate RAM etc. and a secondary memory e.g. a persistent storage device including hard disk drives and a persistent database and or a multi tenant database implementation which communicate with each other via a bus . Main memory includes mobile application an instant share request and pointer to a dynamically created co browsing site which may then be followed to connect with the dynamically created co browse site. Main memory and its sub elements are operable in conjunction with processing logic and processor to perform the methodologies discussed herein. The computer system may additionally or alternatively embody the server side elements as described above.

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processor is configured to execute the processing logic for performing the operations and functionality which is discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface card . The computer system also may include a user interface such as a video display unit a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. an integrated speaker . The computer system may further include peripheral device e.g. wireless or wired communication devices memory devices storage devices audio processing devices video processing devices etc. .

The secondary memory may include a non transitory machine readable or computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable storage media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface card .

For example in one embodiment a system embodies a tablet computing device or a hand held smartphone in which a display unit of the system includes a touchscreen interface for the tablet or the smartphone and further in which memory and an integrated circuit operating as an integrated processor are incorporated into the tablet or smartphone in which the integrated processor implements one or more of the embodiments described herein for displaying and filtering business analytics data stored in the cloud and interfacing to an on demand and or multi tenant database system such as a cloud computing service provided via a public Internet as a subscription service. In one embodiment the integrated circuit described above or the depicted integrated processor of the tablet or smartphone is an integrated silicon processor functioning as a central processing unit CPU and or a Graphics Processing Unit GPU for a tablet computing device or a smartphone.

Display subsystem represents hardware e.g. display devices and software e.g. drivers components that provide a visual and or tactile display for a user to interact with the tablet computing device or smart phone. Display subsystem includes display interface which includes the particular screen or hardware device used to provide a display to a user. In one embodiment display subsystem includes a touchscreen device that provides both output and input to a user.

I O controller represents hardware devices and software components related to interaction with a user. I O controller can operate to manage hardware that is part of an audio subsystem and or display subsystem . Additionally I O controller illustrates a connection point for additional devices that connect to the tablet computing device or smart phone through which a user might interact. In one embodiment I O controller manages devices such as accelerometers cameras light sensors or other environmental sensors or other hardware that can be included in the tablet computing device or smart phone. The input can be part of direct user interaction as well as providing environmental input to the tablet computing device or smart phone.

In one embodiment the tablet computing device or smart phone includes power management that manages battery power usage charging of the battery and features related to power saving operation. Memory subsystem includes memory devices for storing information in the tablet computing device or smart phone. Connectivity includes hardware devices e.g. wireless and or wired connectors and communication hardware and software components e.g. drivers protocol stacks to the tablet computing device or smart phone to communicate with external devices. Cellular connectivity may include for example wireless carriers such as GSM global system for mobile communications CDMA code division multiple access TDM time division multiplexing or other cellular service standards . Wireless connectivity may include for example activity that is not cellular such as personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth local area networks e.g. WiFi and or wide area networks e.g. WiMax or other wireless communication.

Peripheral connections include hardware interfaces and connectors as well as software components e.g. drivers protocol stacks to make peripheral connections as a peripheral device to to other computing devices as well as have peripheral devices from connected to the tablet computing device or smart phone including for example a docking connector to connect with other computing devices. Peripheral connections include common or standards based connectors such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connector DisplayPort including MiniDisplayPort MDP High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Firewire etc.

While the subject matter disclosed herein has been described by way of example and in terms of the specific embodiments it is to be understood that the claimed embodiments are not limited to the explicitly enumerated embodiments disclosed. To the contrary the disclosure is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements as are apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore the scope of the appended claims are to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosed subject matter is therefore to be determined in reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

