---

title: Communication system to provide selective access to a wireless communication device
abstract: A communication system provides selective access to target wireless communication devices. A naming server system receives naming system registration messages from target wireless communication devices and address requests from user devices. The naming server system determines if the current time is within the access schedule for the target wireless communication device. If the current time is within the access schedule for the target wireless communication device, then the naming server system returns the address for the target wireless communication device. If the current time is not within the access schedule for the target wireless communication device, then the naming server system will respond with a timeframe when the target wireless communication device will be available for access.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503416&OS=09503416&RS=09503416
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09503416
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150403
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 910 636 filed on Jun. 5 2013 and titled A COMMUNICATION SYSTEM TO PROVIDE SELECTIVE ACCESS TO A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 910 636 is hereby incorporated by reference into this patent application.

Domain names are data strings that can be used to access resources over data networks. The domain names are often selected to ease user retention of the name. A prime example of a domain name is uspto.gov for the U.S. Patent Office. A Domain Naming System DNS stores and serves information associated with domain names. A prime example of the associated information is the current Internet Protocol IP addresses that can be used to communicate with resources in the domain. A common task for a DNS is the translation of domain names into their corresponding IP addresses. For example a DNS would translate uspto.gov into the IP address of a Patent Office server system. The user then communicates with the Patent Office over the Internet using the IP address.

To load the DNS Internet servers register their IP addresses with the DNS in association with their domain names. While these registrations are active the DNS will serve out the IP addresses in response to queries having the domain names. Eventually a given IP address registration may time out and the DNS will require another registration before serving out the IP address. In other scenarios a properly registered IP address may still fail the user due to another reason such as network or server problems. In addition to the IP address the DNS may associate other information with the domain names such as call state and network state.

Wireless communication devices are increasingly being used as content servers that interact with the DNS to provide their content over the Internet or a private IP network . For example a wireless camera having a domain name and an IP address may register the name and IP address with the DNS to serve out live images from the camera. These wireless communication devices may have limited availability due to power restraints network availability and the like. Unfortunately the wireless devices and the DNS are not properly configured for efficient and effective interaction in the developing wireless environment.

A communication system provides selective access to target wireless communication devices. A naming server system receives naming system registration messages from target wireless communication devices and address requests from user devices. The naming server system determines if the current time is within the access schedule for the target wireless communication device. If the current time is within the access schedule for the target wireless communication device then the naming server system returns the address for the target wireless communication device. If the current time is not within the access schedule for the target wireless communication device then the naming server system will respond with a timeframe when the target wireless communication device will be available for access.

In communication system target wireless communication devices register their names and network addresses with naming server system . The registrations also include access schedules. Naming server system serves out the network addresses and or future access timeframes to user devices based on the access schedule.

Note that a single target device may have multiple names addresses and access schedules or that multiple target devices may share names addresses and access schedules. The domain names comprise data strings such as Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs and the like. The access schedules control whether naming server system serves out the network addresses or whether naming system suggests a subsequent timeframe to obtain the network address from naming system . Typically the access schedules correspond to when target devices will have adequate content power and network connectivity.

Naming server system receives the naming system registration messages transferred by target wireless communication devices . Naming server system stores the provided data in association with the respective domain name. One example of naming server system is a DNS server although other naming server systems could be used.

Naming server system receives address requests from user devices . The address requests indicate the domain names for target wireless communication devices . Naming server system processes the domain names and their associated access schedules to determine whether the current time is within the access schedules for the target wireless communication devices . If naming server determines that the current time is within the access schedule of the target wireless communication device then naming server system responds with the address for the target wireless communication device . If naming server system determines that the current time is not within the access schedule of the target wireless communication device then naming server system responds with a timeframe to re send the address request .

In the above operation target wireless communication devices and naming server system effectively and efficiently interact to conserve resources across communication system . Target wireless communication devices are not required to maintain the overly burdensome content power or network connectivity that is required to remain on net. User devices are not required to continually request address translations until the target devices become available. Likewise naming server system should also handle a lower amount of failed address requests. In addition communication network handles a lower amount of failed address requests to naming server system . Communication network also handles a lower amount of failed data transmissions that are directed to unavailable the target devices.

In some examples the access schedule is a simple pre determined set of time periods such as 9 00 11 00 PM on Mondays and Fridays. In other examples the access schedule reflects an estimated future time when the target device expects to have adequate power presence at a location network connectivity content access and the like. In yet other examples the access schedule reflects a calculated time to live for the target device power supply presence at a location estimated event time network connectivity and the like. In further examples the access schedule is determined based on a trigger for the target device such as atmospheric conditions temperature wind speeds motion presence in a geographic location network status radio frequency network and the like.

Consider an example where the target wireless device is solar powered sensor with limited battery capacity. Due to the amount of sun and usage the battery power varies. The target device may then vary its access schedule in accord with changing solar and usage conditions. For example the target device may reduce the length of time content is served during periods of reduced sun or periods of increased power usage.

Some target devices may trigger data availability based on conditions. For example a target atmospheric sensor may register for 2 hours of content access starting in twelve hours in response to extreme COlevels. A target security camera may register for ten minutes of content access starting immediately in response to unauthorized motion detection.

In some examples gas meter is programmed to be available on the 26th day of each month for ten minutes between 11 49 PM and 11 59 PM. Gas meter registers with DNS server with an access schedule that indicates these available time periods. If DNS server receives an address request for gas meter before 11 49 on the 26th of the month then DNS server responds with the timeframe when a DNS retry should be attempted between 11 49 PM and 11 59 PM on the 26th day of the month. When the current time reaches 11 49 PM on the 26th day of the month then DNS server will begin to serve out the IP address of gas meter . Thus computer may obtain the IP address of access gas meter to download information for billing purposes. If DNS server receives an address request for gas meter after 11 59 on the 26th of the month then DNS server responds with the timeframe when a DNS retry should be attempted between 11 49 PM and 11 59 PM on the 26th day of the next month. If desired the domain name and IP address would be available for use by other gas meters before and after 11 49 PM and 11 59 PM on the 26th day of the month. In this way content downloads can be batched and staggered for multiple gas meters.

In another example robotic COsensor determines its access schedule based on an estimated future time for arrival in a geographic area. This could be calculated based on distance and speed of travel. Robotic COsensor would register with DNS server to start serving its IP address after its estimated time of arrival. As a result DNS server will provide the estimated time of arrival in response to address queries for robotic COsensor until the current time reaches the estimated time.

Alternatively robotic COsensor may wait until it reaches the geographic area to register. Once robotic COsensor detects that is within the geographic area sensor would then register with DNS server to begin serving its IP address immediately and for another 2 hours the length of time that robotic COsensor remains within the geographic area. DNS translations during this 2 hour time period would indicate the IP address for robotic COsensor and indicate the time to live at that geographic location.

In some examples DNS server will notify tablet that robotic COsensor is available. In other examples robotic COsensor may arrive at a specified geographic location but need to recharge its battery and will not be available until after a specified time to recharge. Different factors such as type of power supply remaining power network connectivity content geographic location and the like may be considered in determining the access schedule for robotic COsensor . Alternatively rather than determining the access schedule based on detecting the device s presence in a pre determine geographic location robotic COsensor may determine the access schedule based an estimated future time when robotic COsensor will be within range of a pre determined radio frequency i.e. a carrier s base station or when network load is expected to be low.

In another example robotic COsensor registers when it detects COlevels above a threshold. The access schedule for robotic COsensor is based on when registration is triggered and exact timeframes may not be known in advance. In addition the response provided by DNS server may also indicate the time remaining to access robotic COsensor i.e. device will be available for ten more minutes . This could be based on power usage and remaining battery power among other factors. In yet another example robotic COsensor powers on and records content when COlevels are above a threshold. Robotic COsensor then registers when the device memory storage is at 80 capacity or when battery power is at 15 remaining.

In another example truck camera determines its access schedule based on scheduled departure arrival time and travel time. At the scheduled departure time truck camera powers on and registers with DNS server . The access schedule for truck camera may indicate that truck camera will be available for the duration of the trip i.e. 4 hours . In other examples truck camera registers with DNS server when it detects it is located within a pre determined geographic area and remains registered while located within a specified geographic area. Alternatively truck camera powers up and registers with DNS server when it detects it is in motion and does not de register until it has been stationary for a specified amount of time.

In some examples truck camera is accessible only by authorized users. The access schedule for truck camera indicates a list of approved users in addition to the timeframe s that truck camera is available. In this example the list of approved users includes tablet and computer but not mobile phone . When mobile phone requests access to truck camera DNS server determines mobile phone is not on the list of approved users. DNS server responds that access is denied. When computer requests access during a time that is within the access schedule for truck camera DNS server responds with the IP address for truck camera .

Communication transceiver comprises communication components such as antennas amplifiers filters modulators signal processing circuitry software and the like. Communication transceiver may be configured to use IP Ethernet and various wireless protocols including combinations thereof. Communication transceiver transfers registration messages to a naming server system and transfers requested content to requesting devices.

Processing circuitry comprises microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory system . Processing circuitry may comprise a single device or could be distributed across multiple devices including devices in different geographic areas. Processing circuitry may be embedded in various types of equipment. Examples of processing circuitry include central processing units application specific processors and logic devices and or any type of computer processing devices including combinations thereof.

Memory system comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium readable by processing system and capable of storing software such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other hardware memory apparatus including combinations thereof. Memory system can include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including combinations thereof. Memory system may comprise a single device or could be distributed across multiple devices including devices in different geographic areas. Memory system may be embedded in various types of equipment.

Software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Software may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. In this example software comprises Naming Server module Server module and Application module although software could have alternative configurations in other examples.

Software can be implemented in program instructions and can be executed by processing system . Software can include additional processes programs or components such as operating system software database software or application software including combinations thereof. Software can also comprise firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions executable by processing system .

When executed by processing system software directs processing system to operate as described herein to interact with naming server systems. In particular Naming Server module directs processing system to transfer naming system registration messages with access schedules for delivery to a naming server system. Server module directs processing system to handle content requests to serve out the requested content. Application module directs processing system to develop content and access schedules.

Communication transceiver comprises components that communication over communication links such as network cards ports RF transceivers processing circuitry and software or some other communication components. Communication transceiver may be configured to communication over metallic wireless or optical links. Communication transceiver may be configured to use Time Division Multiplexing TDM IP Ethernet optical networking wireless protocols communication signaling or some other communication format including combinations thereof. Communication transceiver receives registration messages from target wireless communication devices and receives address requests from user devices.

Processing circuitry comprises microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory system . Processing circuitry may comprise a single device or could be distributed across multiple devices including devices in different geographic areas. Processing circuitry may be embedded in various types of equipment. Examples of processing circuitry include central processing units application specific processors and logic devices and or any type of computer processing devices including combinations thereof. Processing circuitry processes the domain name and access schedule for the requested target wireless communication device to determine whether the current time is within the access schedule for the target wireless communication device.

Memory system comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium readable by processing system and capable of storing software such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other hardware memory apparatus including combinations thereof. Memory system can include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including combinations thereof. Memory system may comprise a single device or could be distributed across multiple devices including devices in different geographic areas. Memory system may be embedded in various types of equipment. In some examples a computer apparatus could comprise memory system and software .

Software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Software may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. In this example software comprises Registration module Address Request module and Response module although software could have alternative configurations in other examples.

Software can be implemented in program instructions and can be executed by processing system . Software can include additional processes programs or components such as operating system software database software or application software including combinations thereof. Software can also comprise firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions executable by processing system .

When executed by processing system software directs processing system to operate as described herein to provide selective access to target wireless communication devices. In particular Registration module directs processing system to process the naming system registration message from target wireless communication devices to register the target wireless communication devices. Address Request module directs processing system to process the address requests from user devices. Response module directs processing system to transfer responses to the address requests.

Referring back to target devices comprise any device having wireless communication connectivity. Target devices comprise radio frequency RF communication circuitry antenna and software elements. The RF circuitry typically includes amplifiers filters modulators and signal processing circuitry. In some examples target wireless device includes circuitry and equipment to exchange wireless communications over wireless links with wireless access system transfer registration requests for DNS registration transfer access schedules and receive access requests from user devices among other operations. Target wireless devices may also include user interface systems memory devices computer readable storage medium software processing circuitry or other communication components. Target wireless devices may be a sensor computer meter camera vehicle appliance electronic device that uploads data or downloads available updates or some other wireless communication apparatus including combinations thereof.

Naming server system comprises a processing system and communication transceiver. Naming server system may also include other components such as a router data storage system and power supply. Naming server system may reside in a single device or may be distributed across multiple devices. Naming server system may be a discrete system or may be integrated within other systems including other systems within communication system . In some examples naming server system could comprise a network server system network attached storage storage area network home location register visitor location register 

User devices comprise any device having communication connectivity with hardware and circuitry programmed to function as a communication device. User devices are used to access the target wireless communication devices. User devices may also include user interface systems memory devices computer readable storage medium software processing circuitry or other communication components. User devices may be a computer laptop tablet personal digital assistant PDA mobile phone cellular phone smartphone machine transceivers televisions mobile Internet devices and or some other apparatus having networking components including combinations thereof.

Communication network is representative and may be a single wireless network or may comprise multiple sub networks including wireless networks and the Internet. Communication network typically includes wireless base stations routers servers gateways signaling processors communication links and the like.

Wireless communication links use air or space as the transport medium. Wireless communication links may use various protocols such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Long Term Evolution LTE Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax IEEE 802.11 protocols WIFI Bluetooth near field or some other wireless communication format including combinations thereof. Communication links use metal air space glass plastic and or some other transport material. Communication links could use various communication protocols such as TDM IP Ethernet optical networking hybrid fiber coax HFC communication signaling wireless protocols or some other communication format including combinations thereof. Communication links are representative and may include intermediate links systems and networks.

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fail within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiment described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

