---

title: System and method for implementing a subscription-based social media platform
abstract: Systems and methods for implementing a subscription-based social media or fan club platform are provided. A content creator generates live content on a mobile device and sends requests to a server for initializing a live stream from the mobile device. The server sends requests to encoding service providers. The encoded live content is send to a content storage server. Subscribers of the social media or fan club platform can access the live content on their mobile devices from the content storage server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438553&OS=09438553&RS=09438553
owner: REMOTE MEDIA, LLC
number: 09438553
owner_city: Wheaton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150707
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 319 423 filed on Jun. 30 2014 entitled System and Method for Implementing a Subscription Based Social Media Platform which is a continuation of and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 184 508 filed on Feb. 19 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 769 031 entitled System and Method for Implementing a Subscription Based Social Media Platform which is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 025 523 filed on Sep. 12 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 667 075 entitled System and Method for Implementing a Subscription Based Social Media Platform the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 811 958 filed on Apr. 15 2013 entitled Subscription Based Social Media Platform the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to computer based systems and methods for providing a subscription based social media or digital fan club platform.

Social media and digital fan club platforms utilize mobile and web based technologies to create highly interactive environments through which individuals and communities share co create discuss and modify user generated content. However some social media and digital fan club platforms limit the way by which a user can share content. For example some social media and digital fan clubs do not incorporate email instant messaging IM phone calls or live video feeds in their supported technologies.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods for implementing a subscription based social media or digital fan club platform. The disclosed system includes a robust subscription based publishing platform that enables sharing of premium content in one place for example photos videos instant messaging IM short message service SMS messages email phone calls live videos and more using an application app running on a mobile device. By using the disclosed systems and methods influential people and brands in the world can connect directly with their most devoted fans thereby building a true community.

A method for implementing a subscription based social media or digital fan club platform is provided. The method includes receiving from at least one of a computer and a mobile device of a content creator a first REpresentational State Transfer REST application programming interface API request for initiating a chat the API request generated by an application running on the at least one of a computer and a mobile device of the content creator. The method also includes retrieving at least one of mobile numbers and mobile device IDs of users of the fan club platform determining a plurality of valid subscribers and retrieving from a database information about the plurality of valid subscribers. The method further includes a sending to an SMS message service provider a second REST API request information about the plurality of subscribers and SMS content from the content creator if the second REST API request is a request to an SMS message service provider and or b sending to a PUSH Notification service provider a third REST API request information about the plurality of subscribers and PUSH Notification content from the content creator if the third REST API request is a request for a PUSH Notification.

Under alterative embodiments a method for implementing a subscription based fan club platform includes receiving from at least one of a computer and a mobile device of a content creator a REST API request the API request generated by an application running on the at least one of a computer and a mobile device of the content creator and indicating that the content creator can participate in a chat. The method also includes receiving from at least one of a user computer and a user mobile device at least one request by a user to participate in the chat and determining whether the user is a subscribed user. The method further includes a enabling the user to participate in the chat if the user is a subscribed user and b enabling the user to have view only access to the chat if the user is not a subscribed user.

Under alterative embodiments a method for implementing a subscription based fan club platform includes receiving from at least one of a computer and a mobile device of a content creator a REST API request the API request generated by an application running on the at least one of a computer and a mobile device of the content creator and indicating a first number wherein the first number is a number of users of the fan club platform that can enter a chat room with the content creator. The method also includes identifying users of the fan club platform that have indicated interest to enter the chat room with the content creator and determining whether the users of the fan club platform that have indicated interest to enter the chat room are subscribed users. The method further includes a selecting among the subscribed users the first number of users to enter the chat room and b enabling the users that are not subscribed to have view only access to the chat room.

Systems and methods for implementing subscription based social media are provided. The disclosed system includes a robust subscription based publishing platform that enables sharing of premium content in one place for example photos videos SMS messages email phone calls live videos and more using an application app running on a mobile device. By using the disclosed systems and methods influential people and brands in the world can connect directly with their most devoted fans thereby building a true community.

A method for implementing a subscription based social media platform is provided. The method includes the steps of receiving an application programming interface API request for initializing a live stream from a mobile device the API request generated by an application running on the mobile device. The method also includes storing metadata information of the received API request in a database coupled to the server and sending a REpresentational State Transfer REST request to an encoding service provider the REST request comprising a request for a plurality of bitrate Real Time Messaging Protocol RTMP stream configurations. The method further includes receiving an RTMP protocol location from the encoding service provider storing RTMP stream information in the database sending the RTMP protocol location to the mobile device receiving a first notification from the mobile device that the mobile device has initiated the live stream and sending a second notification to the database that the mobile device has initiated the live stream.

Under alterative embodiments of the present invention a method for implementing a subscription based social media platform includes the steps of sending to a server an application programming interface API request for initializing a live stream the API request generated by an application running on the mobile device the API having metadata information being stored to a database and receiving a REpresentational State Transfer REST protocol location by the server in response to an REST request to an encoding service provider the REST request comprising a request for a plurality of bitrate Real Time Messaging Protocol RTMP stream configurations. The method further includes the steps of sending a first notification to the server that the mobile device has initiated the live stream encoding the live stream generating packets of encoded live stream data from the encoded live stream and sending the encoded live stream packets to an encoding service provider.

Under alterative embodiments of the present invention a method for implementing a subscription based social media platform includes the steps of receiving from a content creator a REST API request for initializing at least one of an email an SMS message and a voice message and determining a plurality of subscribers with subscription to receive content from the content creator. The method further includes the steps of retrieving from a database information about the plurality of subscribers and a sending to an email service provider the REST API request information about the plurality of subscribers and the content from the content creator if the REST API request is a request for an email address b sending to an SMS message service provider the REST API request information about the plurality of subscribers and the content from the content creator if the REST API request is a request for an SMS message and c if the REST API request is a request for a voice message 1 sending to a content storage server an audio file corresponding to the content from the content creator 2 sending to an encoding service provider the REST API request and 3 sending to a voice service provider the REST API request in response to notification from the encoding service provider that the audio file is encoded.

These and other embodiments will be described in greater detail in the remainder of the specification referring to the drawings.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods for implementing a subscription based social media or digital fan club platform. The disclosed systems and methods build exclusive online communities for people of influence and their fans. The disclosed system includes a robust subscription based publishing platform with more ways to share premium content in one place for example photos videos SMS messages instant messaging email phone calls live videos and more compared to existing platforms. By using the disclosed systems and methods influential people and brands in the world can connect directly with their most devoted fans by building a true community. Under an embodiment of the present invention the subscription based platform is advertisement free and spam free.

The encoding service provider returns an RTMP protocol location to the server and in response the server stores the RTMP stream information in the database and returns the RTMP location to the mobile device .

The app running on the mobile device then initiates the live stream and notifies the server that there is a stream initiating. Server then notifies the database for example using a flag that the stream has initiated .

The app running on the mobile device instructs the mobile device to start encoding and to send chunks of the video data to the encoding service provider or alternatively makes POST request to server for HTTP Live Streaming HLS storage . The encoding service provider encodes the video data into one or more streams. In addition the encoding service provider sends files for example HLS and or m3u8 files to a content delivery network CDN . The encoding service provider further repeats the RTMP stream to a CDN RTMP ingestion service .

Server looks up users who are subscribed to particular services and are allowed to view a stream from mobile tablet or computer device and then sends push notifications or SMS to one or more mobile devices for alerting them about the live stream or post to social media for example Twitter or Facebook alerting that the live stream .

The system can reach particular users based on their geographic profile information therefore allowing geo targeting of users. When users subscribe to a particular service they can specify geographic information for example their country city of residence zip code or address. The disclosed system can use different technologies to reach a particular audience based on user provided geographic information. The disclosed systems and methods allow a content creator using an app running on their mobile device to connect to their members for example using an SMS message a voice call directly to the recipients phone and or an e mail. For example a content creator can 

The targeted communication can be based on for example the zip code from the user s profile and allows the content creator to geographically target exactly where to send each reach method.

Under an alternative embodiment an app running on a creator s mobile device sends an REST API request to a server with SMS message content . The server retrieves information on the users that are subscribed to receive content from the content creator . A database sends the mobile numbers of the subscribed users to the server . In response the server sends a REST API request to an SMS service provider with SMS content generated using the app running on the mobile device and the mobile numbers of the subscribed users . The SMS service provider sends to the subscribed users mobile devices an SMS notifying the users for example about a live broadcast from the content creator .

Under an alternative embodiment an app running on a creator s mobile device records and posts a REST API request to a server with an audio file for example an AAC Audio file . The server retrieves information from users that are subscribed to receive content from the particular creator . A database sends mobile numbers of the subscribed users to the server . The server sends the audio file to a CDN storage server and further sends a REST API call to an encoding service provider to convert the audio file from the CDN storage server .

In response the encoding service provider retrieves the audio file converts it to one or more files and stores the new file s in the CDN storage server . In addition the encoding service provider notifies the server that the audio file has been converted . In response the server sends a REST API call to a voice calling service with a list of mobile numbers to be called .

The voice calling service sends a request to the server asking for a location of the audio file that is to be transmitted to subscribed users and consequently retrieves the audio file from the CDN storage server . In addition the voice calling service calls the mobile numbers of the subscribers and plays the audio for example an mp3 file from the original source .

The server can also send a REST API request to PUSH Notification service . The API request sent to the PUSH Notification service includes mobile device IDs of the valid subscribers. The API request can also include content for example a message including the name of the content creator that will be sent to the valid subscribers mobile devices as part of the PUSH Notification .

Users who send requests to participate in the chat and have not subscribed to the service have view only access to the chat . In addition to view only access to the chat the system also provides a subscription related screen that prompts the users to subscribe to the service if they want to participate in the chat .

Server can collect information about the subscribed users who have participated in the chat with the content creator . The system allows unsubscribed users to have view only access to the chat and provides options to those users to subscribe to the service .

The system can implement an algorithm to select the X number of users among the subscribed users who can participate in the chat with the content creator . A person of ordinary skill would understand that different algorithms can be used to select a number of users from the subscribed users. For example a First In First Out FIFO algorithm adds users to a queue to be selected for chat as they enter the room. When the content creator selects X number of users to communicate in the chat room the algorithm can pick the first X number of users from the front of the queue can enable them to chat in the room and then place them in the back of the line for re selection. The FIFO algorithm favors subscribed users who have been waiting to be selected more than subscribed users that had more recently entered the chat room. Alternatively another algorithm selects a random set of X number of users based on the Fisher Yates algorithm. The Fisher Yates algorithm shuffles the users in the chat room then selects the X number of users from the top of the queue after the shuffle has been performed. This algorithm provides to users equal probability for being selected. According to a Small Limit algorithm if the number of subscribed users is less than a threshold the selection process will choose all subscribed users. The disclosed system and method can check whether a particular subscribed user has been selected . Non selected users can be placed in a view only mode and can stay in a queue waiting to be selected . The selected users are notified that they can send messages into the chat room and communicate with the content creator and other selected users .

The descriptions herein are applicable in any computing or processing environment. Embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in computer hardware firmware and or computer programs executing on programmable computers mobile devices or servers that each includes a processor and a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements . A server client agent module interface and host is not software per se and includes at least some tangible non transitory hardware that is configured to execute computer readable instructions.

Any computer program can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate within and outside of computer based systems. Any computer program can be stored on an article of manufacture such as a storage medium e.g. CD ROM hard disk or magnetic diskette or device e.g. computer peripheral that is readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer to perform the functions of the embodiments. The embodiments or portions thereof can also be implemented as a machine readable storage medium configured with a computer program where upon execution instructions in the computer program cause a machine to operate to perform the functions of the embodiments described above. The embodiments or portions thereof may be implemented using circuitry such as one or more of programmable logic e.g. an ASIC logic gates a processor and a memory. While several particular forms of the disclosed subject matter have been described it will be apparent that various modifications are possible. It is not intended that the disclosed subject matter be limited to the particular embodiments described here. Other advantages and novel features of the disclosed subject matter may become apparent from the detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings

Embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be used in a variety of applications. Although the embodiments or portions thereof are not limited in this respect the embodiments or portions thereof can be implemented with memory devices in microcontrollers general purpose microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs reduced instruction set computing RISC and complex instruction set computing CISC among other electronic components. Moreover the embodiments or portions thereof described above can also be implemented using integrated circuit blocks referred to as main memory cache memory or other types of memory that store electronic instructions to be executed by a microprocessor or store data that may be used in arithmetic operations.

It is particularly noted that the persons skilled in the art can readily combine the various technical aspects of the various exemplary embodiments described as well as their constituent elements and sub systems to implement features and processes contemplated to be within the scope of the disclosed subject matter but not literally or explicitly described.

It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in this description or illustrated in the drawings. The disclosed subject matter is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the disclosed subject matter. It is important therefore that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the disclosed subject matter.

Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principals set forth below may be applied to other embodiments and applications. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown or described herein.

