---

title: Methods, systems, products, and devices for processing DNS friendly identifiers
abstract: When a request having a keyword is received, a domain name having the keyword can be generated and a network resource corresponding to the domain name can be requested wherein the network resource is adapted to extract the keyword from the domain name. In turn, when a request having a first domain name is received, a second domain name having the first domain name can be generated and a network resource corresponding to the second domain name can be requested wherein the network resource is adapted to extract the first domain name from the second domain name.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659070&OS=09659070&RS=09659070
owner: S. Aqua Semiconductor, LLC
number: 09659070
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150826
---
This application claims the benefit of the following patent applications which are hereby incorporated by reference the application for patent is based on a disclosure filed on Jul. 17 1998 as Disclosure Document No. 442 796 and portions of a disclosure filed on Jul. 11 2001 as Disclosure Document No. 496 673 under the Document Disclosure Program and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 248 068 filed Dec. 13 2002 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 683 481 filed Jan. 5 2002 now abandoned and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 682 351 filed Aug. 23 2001 now abandoned and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 682 133 filed Jul. 25 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 194 552 and is a continuation in art of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 653 100 filed Aug. 31 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 760 746 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 650 827 filed Aug. 30 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 901 436 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 598 134 filed Jun. 21 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 895 430 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 532 500 filed Mar. 21 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 136 932 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 175 825 filed Jan. 13 2000 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 160 125 filed Oct. 18 1999 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 157 075 filed Oct. 1 1999 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 143 859 filed Jul. 15 1999 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 135 751 filed May 25 1999 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 130 136 filed Apr. 20 1999 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 125 531 filed Mar. 22 1999.

This invention generally relates to identifier resolution and processing and more specifically relates to methods systems products and devices for processing domain name system friendly identifiers.

A resource identifier such as a Uniform Resource Identifier URI is a compact string of characters for identifying an abstract or physical resource. URIs are the generic set of all names and addresses that refer to objects on the Internet. A URI can be further classified as a locator a name or both. A Uniform Resource Name URN refers to the subset of URI that are required to remain globally unique and persistent even when the resource ceases to exist or becomes unavailable. A Uniform Resource Locator URL refers to the subset of URI that identify resources via a representation of their primary access mechanism e.g. their network location rather than identifying the resource by name or by some other attribute s of that resource.

A URL is the address of a file accessible on the Internet. The URL contains the name of the protocol required to access the resource a domain name or IP address that identifies a specific computer on the Internet and a hierarchical description of a file location on the computer. In addition the last optional part of the URL may be a query string preceded by or a fragment identifier preceded by . The fragment identifier indicates a particular position within the specified file. For example the URL http www.example.com 80 index.html appendix where http is the scheme or protocol www.example.com is the host server name or Fully Qualified Domain Name FQDN 80 is the port connection for the HTTP server request index.html is the filename located on the server and appendix is the identifier to display a specific portion of the HTML file called index . The URL http www.example.com also retrieves an HTML file called index on the HTTP server called example.com . By default when either a port or filename is omitted upon accessing a HTTP server via a URL the client browser interprets the request by connecting via port 80 and retrieving the HTML file called index .

Because an Internet address is a relatively long string of numbers e.g. 31.41.59.26 that is difficult to remember Internet users rely on domain names memorable and sometimes catchy words corresponding to these numbers in order to use e mail and to connect to Internet sites on the Web. The Domain Name System DNS is a set of protocols and services on a network that allows users to utilize domain names when looking for other hosts e.g. computers on the network. The DNS is composed of a distributed database of names. The names in the DNS database establish a logical tree structure called the domain name space. Each node or domain in the domain name space is named and can contain subdomains. Domains and subdomains are grouped into zones to allow for distributed administration of the name space.

The DNS provides a mechanism so backup databases can be identified in case the first one becomes unavailable. DNS databases are updated automatically so that information on one name server does not remain out of date for long. A client of the DNS is called a resolver revolvers are typically located in the application layer of the networking software of each Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP capable machine. Users typically do not interact directly with the resolver. Application programs that use the DNS such as mailers mail servers Web clients Web servers Web caches IRC clients FTP clients distributed file systems distributed databases and almost all other applications on TCP IP rely on the resolver library.

Resolvers query the DNS by directing queries at name servers which contain parts of the distributed database that is accessed by using the DNS protocols to translate domain names into IP addresses needed for transmission of information across the network. The function of translating a domain name into an IP address is known as name resolution. Name resolution is performed by a distributed system of name servers having resolvers to fulfill the resource request of the client by the successive hierarchical querying of the resource records from zone files. Domain name resolution is explained in P. Mockapetris Informational RFC Request for Comment 1035 Domain Names Implementation and Specification Internet Engineering Task Force IETF November 1987 http www.faqs.org rfcs rfc1035.html . DNS friendly identifiers such as RFC 1035 compliant domain names are restricted to a limited 7 bit ASCII character set A to Z a to z 0 to 9 and hyphen.

The Berkeley Internet Name Domain BIND implements an Internet name server for the UNIX operating system. The BIND includes a name server and a resolver library. BIND is fully integrated into UNIX network programs for use in storing and retrieving host names and addresses by calling a routine from the resolver library called gethostbyname which returns the IP address corresponding to a given Internet host name. Error return status from gethostbyname is indicated by return of a NULL pointer.

At the core of Netscape client products lies the Netscape Network library NETLIB . A necessity of any network based client browser application is to send and receive data over a connection. This is accomplished in NETLIB by making a call to NET GetURL . In order to resolve host names NETLIB uses a standard DNS lookup mechanism. NET FindAddress makes the gethostbyname call to lookup the IP address for the specified host from a DNS database stored on a DNS server and is called from NET BeginConnect . If a numeric IP address is passed into NET FindAddress it is passed directly into the gethostbyname call which returns a success when an IP address is passed in. NET FindAddress is actually called repeatedly until it returns success or failure. Similarly Microsoft Internet Explorer MSIE browser include objects such as WebBrowser Object and InternetExplorer Object which contains events methods and properties. One event called the Navigate Event navigates to a resource identified by a URL.

A domain name includes two parts a host and a domain. Technically the letters to the right of the dot e.g. tlda.com are referred to as Top Level Domains TLDs while hosts computers with assigned IP addresses that are listed in specific TLD registries are known as second level domains SLDs . For the domain name tlda.com .com is the TLD and tlda is the SLD. Domain name space is the ordered hierarchical set of all possible domain names either in use or to be used for locating an IP address on the Internet. TLDs are known as top level domains because they comprise the highest order name space available on the Internet. Second level domains as well as third level domains 3LDs such as my.tlda.com are subsidiary to TLDs in the hierarchy of the Internet s DNS.

There are two types of top level domains generic and country code. Generic top level domains gTLDs were created to allocate resources to the growing community of institutional networks while country code top level domains ccTLDs were created for use by each individual country as deemed necessary. More than 240 national or country code TLDs e.g. United States .us Japan .jp Germany .de etc. are administered by their corresponding governments or by private entities with the appropriate national government s acquiescence. A small set of gTLDs does not carry any national identifier but denote the intended function of that portion of the domain space. For example .com was established for commercial networks .org for not for profit organizations and .net for network gateways. The set of gTLDs was established early in the history of the DNS and has not been changed or augmented in recent years COM ORG GOV and MIL were created by January 1985 NET its July 1985 and INT was added in November 1988 .

Incorporated and headquartered in California the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ICANN is the non profit corporation that was formed to take over responsibility for the IP address space allocation protocol parameter assignment domain name system management and root server system management functions now performed under U.S. Government contract by Internet Assigned Numbers Authority IANA and other entities. The IANA also headquartered in California is the overall authority for day to day administration of the DNS. IANA staff carry out administrative responsibilities for the assignment of IP Addresses Autonomous System Numbers TLDs and other unique parameters of the DNS and its protocols.

With respect to domain name management the term registry refers to an entity responsible for managing allocation of domain names within a particular name space such as a TLD. The registry stores information about registered domain names and associated name servers. The term registrar refers to any one of several entities with authority to add names to the registry for a name space. Entities that wish to register a domain name do so through a registrar . The term registrant refers to the entity registering the domain name. In some name spaces the registry and registrar functions can be operated by the same entity so as to combine the concepts and functions of the registrar and registry. The combined registry registrar model is implemented in many ccTLDs and a few gTLDs.

VeriSign Global Registry Services GRS is the leading provider of domain name registry services and DNS support to the Internet and is responsible for the infrastructure that propagates this information throughout the Internet and responds to billions of DNS look ups daily. Though there is a significant percentage of daily DNS look ups that can not be resolved e.g. can not find an IP address there has never been any attempt by the registry or any other party to monetize from such unresolvable DNS requests.

The arbitrarily limited number of gTLDs has created a severe shortage of desirable domain names in the .com registry leading to substantial pent up demand for alternate domain name resources. Experimental registry systems offering name registration services in an alternate set of exclusive domains such as .space or .love developed as early as January 1996. Although visible to only a fraction of Internet users alternate DNS systems such as the Name.Space AlterNIC and eDNS registries have contributed to the community s dialogue on the evolution of DNS administration. Competition argues that TLDs have become an issue of free speech and should not be restricted to the current limited set of gTLDs and ccTLDs.

Customers registering second level domains in alternate TLDs cannot be reached by other Internet users because these domains which are not listed in the root zone file cannot be resolved by other Internet DNS name servers. Only if competitors individually negotiated with each of the scores of thousands of name server operators on the global Internet something that is a physical and financial impossibility for inclusion of alternate TLDs would there be any possibility that its domain names could be universally resolvable. As a result competition has been unable to offer a commercially viable registration service in its TLDs and has been unable to effectively compete in the domain name market. In March 2001 by partnering with several large ISPs to modify their nameservers New.Net Inc. opened their doors to serve as the most effective demonstration of how alternate TLDs are attempting to succeed in a fragmented market driven system.

The following excerpt is provided in Informational RFC Request for Comment 2826 IAB Technical Comment on the Unique DNS Root Internet Architecture Board May 2000 http www.faqs.org rfcs rfc2826.html . To remain a global network the Internet requires the existence of a globally unique public name space. The DNS name space is a hierarchical name space derived from a single globally unique root. This is a technical constraint inherent in the design of the DNS. Therefore it is not technically feasible for there to be more than one root in the public DNS. That one root must be supported by a set of coordinated root servers administered by a unique naming authority. Under agreements among ICANN the U.S. Government arm NSI ICANN through IANA now absorbed into ICANN sends documentation for needed changes to the root zone file to the U.S. Department of Commerce which directs Network Solutions to implement them by editing the authoritative root zone file.

A supplemental memo to RFC 2826 is provided in Simon Higgs Informational Internet Draft Root Zone Definitions Higgs Communications May 2001 http www.ietf.org internet drafts draft higgs root defs 01.txt . Within this memo definitions are applied in an attempt to make other roots such as alternate or enhanced roots inclusive as part of a single globally unique root implying that the single root comprises a plurality of root components distributed across many zone files. In another draft provided in Simon Higgs Informational Internet Draft alternate Roots and the Virtual Inclusive Root May 29 2001 http www.ietf.org internet drafts draft higgs virtual root 00.txt proposes a solution to the problem of duplicate colliding top level domains by identifying the virtual inclusive root VIR in compliance with the IAB s RFC 2826. Though the VIR is the sum of the consensus between all root zones on the public Internet the VIR cannot support conflicting TLDs.

There is a particular increase in articles and publications emphasizing the importance of name space and the perceived shortage of .com names. References have been made that NASA is seeking authorization for .mars as an extension of terrestrial geography. Speaking on the opening day of the annual Internet Society ISOC conference in Geneva on Jul. 22 1998. Vint Cerf a founding President of ISOC said the domain name debate should also encompass .earth or .mars because that s where real time science data is going to travel from in the not too distant future. He said The idea is to take the interplanetary Internet design and make it a part of the infrastructure of the Mars mission. 

The main use of a web browser location field is for resolving URLs to locate and access resources. Entering a URL in the location field of a web browser serves as a means to access a network resource corresponding to that URL. Because the location field is essential for accessing resources the design of such location fields have rivaled much competition and innovation between existing web browser products from companies such as Netscape and Microsoft. Improvements to better track and organize sites of URLs that users have visited such as Bookmark folders URL history and the personal toolbar are all examples of functionality designed to help users navigate. Other improvements include spell checking and an autocomplete feature from the URL history as text is entered into the location field.

A more recent feature called Smart Browsing is integrated into Netscape Navigator that uses Internet Keywords so users can streamline the use of URLs and get fast access to web sites using the browser s location field. Any single or multiword strings typed into the browser s location field that does not include a . are sent via HTTP to a server at netscape.com . The keyword server pulls the string and compares it to several separate lists of keyword URL pairs. If the keyword system finds a match it redirects the user s browser to the URL of the keyword URL pair. Failing a match against the lists the user s browser is redirected to a Netscape Search page with the typed string as the search query. The . versus is a key factor in determining what services are used. Depending on context the detection of only a . delimiter implies a domain name for name resolution services whereas the detection of only a delimiter implies a search request for directory services and the like.

The autosearch feature of Microsoft Internet Explorer MSIE is another example of an improvement to the location field of a web browser. The details of the autosearch feature is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 009 459 issued on Dec. 28 1999 by Belfiore et al. entitled Intelligent automatic searching for resources in a distributed environment. The 459 patent specifies a mechanism for a computer system to automatically and intelligently determine what a user intended when the user entered text within the location field of a web browser. Often users improperly enter URLs or enter search terms in a user interface element that requires URLs. If the user enters text that is not a URL the system may first try to construct a valid URL from the user entered text. If a valid URL cannot be constructed the browser then automatically formats a search engine query using the user entered text and forwards the query to an Internet search engine.

In addition the 459 patent specifies a template registry that categorizes the specific suitability of a plurality of search engines to locate web sites related to a determined meaning of the specified text. The template is an entry in the registry that includes replaceable characters that may be replaced with the processed text. An example template registry entry that causes the Yahoo search engine to be called is http msie.yahoo.com autosearch s . The s is filled in with information regarding the search terms.

Because MSIE browser is more than an application and has become a de facto infrastructure component all attempts to compete with the Autosearch feature of MSIE browser include modifying a template in the operating system registry to redirect autosearch results usually to another search page. MSIE also includes an AutoScan feature. The AutoScan and AutoSearch features are dependent on each other in Internet Explorer 5 and can not be disabled from each other. Autosearch is tried first and if there are no Autosearch results then Autoscan is tried. The Autoscan serves only as a navigation tool and has never been adapted configured to perform other request types. There are no known applications capable of detecting the activation of the autosearch and in response either force the autosearch to terminate and invoke an autoscan request or perform a request that completely overrides the autosearch request.

The autosearch is typically configured to access various search engines. Unlike traditional search engines that list search results based on relevance such as by website content metatags and links to other sites pay for placement search engines list results based on fees paid by listed sites. The legal debate over the use of trademarks as search terms in pay for placement search engines is related to the metatag debate of the 1990s. A series of cases in the fate 1990s and 2000 addressed the issue of whether the use of others trademarks in a site s metatags constitutes trademark infringement. While no definitive rule emerged from these rulings in a leading case the Seventh Circuit found that use of others trademarks as metatags indicates an intent to confuse consumers. Like trademark metatags trademark search terms on pay for placement search engines may confuse users who do not realize they are being led to a competitor s site. There are currently no known systems that allow for the contemporaneous access to trademark information while processing a search engine request having one or more keywords. Additionally there are no known methods for ordering search results based on trademark related metric that factors in URLs relating to intellectual property and or trademark servicemark brand information.

The autosearch is typically configured to access various search engines. Unlike traditional search engines that list search results based on relevance such as by website content metatags and links to other sites pay for placement search engines list results based on fees paid by listed sites. The legal debate over the use of trademarks as search terms in pay for placement search engines is related to the metatag debate of the 1990s. A series of cases in the late 1990s and 2000 addressed the issue of whether the use of others trademarks in a site s metatags constitutes trademark infringement. While no definitive rule emerged from these rulings in a leading case the Seventh Circuit found that use of others trademarks as metatags indicates an intent to confuse consumers. Like trademark metatags trademark search terms on pay for placement search engines may confuse users who do not realize they are being led to a competitor s site. There are currently no known systems that allow for the contemporaneous access to trademark information while processing a search engine request having one or more keywords. Additionally there are no known methods for ordering search results based on trademark related metric that factors in URLs relating to intellectual property and or trademark servicemark brand information.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 525 350 filed Mar. 15 2000 by Schneider entitled Method product and apparatus for requesting a network resource teaches how a registration request may be processed particularly from an autosearch in response to determining that a network resource can not be located from an input identifier having a valid domain. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 532 500 filed Mar. 21 2000 by Schneider entitled Fictitious domain name method product and apparatus teaches how a valid URI may be constructed resolved and accessed particularly from an autosearch in response to determining that an input identifier includes a non compliant RFC1035 domain name e.g. domain name is fictitious . Both applications teach how input having only . delimiters can be processed from an autosearch by performing a network resource request and or registration request in response to a failed DNS resolution request.

In addition U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 157 075 filed Oct. 1 1999 by Schneider entitled Method and apparatus for integrating resource location and registration services of valid and fictitious domain names and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 653 100 filed Aug. 31 2000 by Schneider entitled Method product and apparatus for processing a data request teach how such resolution and registration methods of valid and fictitious identifiers including multilingual domain names can be integrated into a unified product apparatus and system. In effect the autosearch feature has never been used for further processing of any kind in response to determining that a DNS friendly identifier is unresolvable.

Aside from processing search requests and keyword resolution requests instead of or before processing a DNS resolution request there has been no known public disclosure of how the autosearch can be used to process request types in response to a failed DNS resolution request until a VeriSign press release VeriSign Announces Breakthrough in Web Navigation For Tens of Millions of Users Worldwide Jun. 20 2001 http corporate.verisign.com news 2001 pr 20010620.html which announces that Internet users can now reach Web site destinations by typing domain names with characters used in their own languages into their Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 or higher browser software. Using technology from RealNames Corporation Microsoft modified a search function of MSIE to enable the International Domain Names to work without the use of special plug ins or client software. This was followed by an Internet draft provided in Yves Arrouye IDN Resolution in Windows Internet Explorer 5.0 and Above Jul. 3 2001 http www.ietf.org internet drafts draft arrouye idn ie5 resolution 00.txt describes how internationalized domain names IDNs are being resolved in MSIE. The document focuses on the different steps that are taken after a user enters an IDN in the address bar of IE up to when the relevant Web page is displayed in the user s browser. Though all input identifiers having only a . delimiter have only recently been configured to pass from the autosearch to a RealNames keyword resolver the only further processing currently implemented is limited to that of IDN resolution only with the display of an error message for all other input.

RealNames Keywords were activated in the MSIE browser pursuant to a distribution agreement with Microsoft which Microsoft chose not to renew. On Jun. 28 2002 the RealNames service had terminated where keywords no longer resolve in the MSIE browser. Keyword navigation has always remained dependant upon a client web browser or to a client web browser add on or plug in product. Other techniques of keyword navigation that do not require browser modification remain unexplored.

The domain name system uses the domain in addr.arpa to convert Internet addresses back to domain names. In a way in addr.arpa forms the root of a separate hierarchy. This hierarchy has been made part of the main domain name hierarchy just for implementation convenience. While syntactically in addr.arpa is a second level domain SLD functionally it is a zero level domain ZLD in the same way as the highest level . is a ZLD. Another example of how a ZLD may be used is explained in P. Falstrom Informational RFC Request for Comment 2916 E.164 number and DNS Cisco Systems Inc. September 2000 http www.faqs.org rfcs rfc2916.html by showing how DNS can be used for identifying available services connected to a single E.164 phone number. Through transformation of E.164 numbers ENUM into DNS names and the use of existing DNS services like delegation through NS records and use of NAPTR records in DNS available services for a specific domain name can be discovered in a decentralized way with distributed management of the different levels in the lookup process. The domain e164.arpa which serves as a ZLD is being populated in order to provide the infrastructure in DNS for storage of E.164 numbers.

For example the E.164 number 1 216 555 1212 can be translated into the 2.1.2.1.5.5.5.6.1.2.1.e164.arpa domain having a zone that includes NAPTR resource records to help determine which resource to access in response to the ENUM request however it remains the onus of industry to adapt how where and when this transformation takes place. Currently there are no known tools to adapt the web browser or similar network navigation device to be ENUM enabled. Though the E.164 identifier holds great promise the expression of the identifier is based on an international standard that may be awkward and unintuitive for quick adaptation by the public. Similar identifiers that represent ENUM may be adapted by the public more readily. There has been evidence over the years of a quicker adoption to informally express a phone number in a syntax similar to an IP address such as 216.555.1212 for example.

Identifiers may exist across multiple namespaces all with different ownership and rules and different naming authorities. As shown there is a recent convergence of attempting to map identifiers across multiple namespaces to access network resources via the DNS. The most common technique for mapping such identifiers is to automatically and transparently transform the identifier in a user s applications before a DNS query is sent. This method does not make any change to the DNS nor require separate DNS name servers. Other examples are proposals which have suggested that modifications are made to the DNS servers to accommodate international domain names for example. While the proposed solution could work it requires major changes to the Internet as it exists today. Domain name servers around the globe which number in the hundreds of thousands would have to be changed or updated.

As explained in P. Mockapetris informational RFC Request for Comment 1034 DOMAIN NAMES CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES Internet Engineering Task force IETF November 1987 http www.faqs.org rfcs rfc1034.html the principal activity of name servers is to answer standard queries. Both the query and its response are carried in a standard message format. A domain name identities a node. Each node has a set of resource information which may be empty. The set of resource information associated with a particular name is composed of separate resource records RRs . The order of RRs in a set is not significant and need not be preserved by name servers resolvers or other parts of the DNS.

RRs with owner names starting with the label are called wildcard resource records. Wildcard RRs can be thought of as instructions for synthesizing RRs. When the appropriate conditions are met the name server creates RRs with an owner name equal to the query name and content taken from the wildcard RRs. The only example of wildcard RR usage in RFC 1034 is that of e mail aliasing. U.S. Pat. No. 6 442 602 issued on Aug. 27 2002 by Choudhry entitled System and method for dynamic creation and management of virtual subdomain addresses discloses how a wildcard RR can be used to launch a server script in response to an unrecognized unregistered subdomain name such as virtualsubdomain.domain.com . The script will resolve it and map it to http www.domain.com subdomain or any other file on a web server which is actually registered.

Recently ccTLD registries have used wildcard RRs to redirect a resolvable domain name back to the registration component of the registry to perform registration requests. Performing this technique in a gTLD zone file would cause conflict enabling the Registry to bypass competition among multiple registrars in this very public component of the Internet s underlying technology. As a result a wildcard RR has never been used in a gTLD zone file. Furthermore due to the global public nature with respect to the root zone file of the single authoritative root DNS server or any other root DNS server for that matter a wildcard resource record never been used in a root zone file.

An emerging economy of names has created a politically controlled TLD space due to the technical constraint of the DNS having a single authoritative root. Though alternate roots have surfaced to provide alternate TLDs such services are criticized by supporters of the single root that such implementations disrupt DNS stability and fragment the Internet. However the same critics encourage competition under the assumption that all such competition will inevitably threaten the stability of the DNS. There has long been an unfulfilled need for processing domain names having TLDs that are not resolvable by a single authoritative public root. Though alternate root servers have been deployed to recognize alternate TLDs there has been little incentive by industry to move in this direction for concern that using such domain names would confuse the public fragment the Internet etc. Now that conventional namespace solutions have been traversed and exhausted industry is only first beginning to attempt and expand domain namespace by offering proposed solutions with identifiers having only the . delimiter.

Similar in approach to the fictitious domain name method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 532 500 filed Mar. 21 2000 by Schneider U.S. Published Patent Application 20020073233 published on Jun. 13 2002 by Gross et al. entitled Systems and methods of accessing network resources discloses a system for using client based address conversion software to intercept a requested Internet address having a non ICANN compliant TLD. This published application corresponds to software technology deployed by New.net in March 2001 on either the network level by partner ISPs or on individual client machines to add new TLD extensions to the existing DNS for the Internet community to purchase and use domain names with extensions that were previously unavailable. Requests to display Web pages with New.net domain names are resolved by appending the additional extension .new.net onto the address. As a result requests are automatically routed to New.net s DNS servers to determine the correct IP address of the computer hosting the Web page. However there is no mention in the published application nor no mechanism in New.net s deployed technology to provide the opportunity to register or check availability of a domain name of any kind in response to determining that the domain name is not resolvable or that a network resource corresponding to the domain name can not be located. Furthermore the new.net portion of the domain name space e.g. zone flies has never included the use of wildcard RRs.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 682 133 filed Jul. 25 2001 by Schneider entitled Method product and apparatus for requesting a network resource teaches how to create a market driven registrar competition across all TLDs e.g. ccTLDs gTLDs alternate TLDs and the like by providing domain name wildcard redirection particularly in a gTLD zone file and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 682 351 filed Aug. 23 2001 by Schneider entitled Fictitious domain name method system product and apparatus discloses how to create a competitive market driven namespace provider system across all TLDAs by providing fictitious domain name wildcard redirection in a root zone file in this case through a proposed infrastructure domain tlda.arpa . Though these patent applications show new methods of using DNS resource records in public zone files e.g. root zone TLD zone further methods have since been constructed that will be shown in this instant invention.

Due to the perceived shortage of TLDs the struggle to add new TLDs has enabled industry to overlook solutions for extending the use of the current domain name space. Such art clearly demonstrates that there is a need for a system to foster better use of domain name space. Accordingly in light of the above there is a strong need in the art for a system and method for enhancing how domain name space can be more extensively used on a network such as the Internet.

The present invention enables fictitious domain name resolution before during and or after a DNS query. The invention enables the DNS to resolve all DNS friendly identifiers. The present invention enables any namespace to be transformed into a FDN for DNS resolution processing including reiterative and or recursive identifier transformations across multiple namespaces. The invention enables the smallest possible modification to the DNS to achieve immediate ubiquity to FDN usage on the Internet without having to change MSIE autosearch or add new client revolvers. The present invention enables the single authoritative root to process all HLDs as resolvable enabling the DNS to become all inclusive leaving alternative roots no choice but to create a system of virtually exclusive roots instead of VIRs. The invention enables a new infrastructure domain such as tlda.arpa to be used as a Primary Virtual Zero level Domain PVZLD for brokering FDN requests across multiple namespaces to namespace providers who manage Secondary Virtual Zero Level Domains SVZLD .

The present invention may use a wildcard resource record having an IP address corresponding to a network resource adapted to determine which domain name registration provider of a plurality of domain name registration providers can process the registration request when it is determined that a domain name is available for registration. The invention can attempt to access a network resource by generating a resolvable subdomain from the initial domain name before potentially processing a registration request. The present invention may generate many identifiers such as keywords fictitious domain names and the like in response to initiating a registration request from a network resource that can not be accessed located or from an unresolvable domain name.

The present invention can bypass search request activation after a failed DNS request and instead redirect a DNS friendly identifier to a request portal to perform one or more of the following requests navigation request registration request WHOIS request back order request prefix request suffix request command request resolution request redirection request search request identifier registration request commerce request subscription request dialing request messaging request conferencing request vendor request service request login request status request authorization request and reference request. The present invention can include numerical TLDs to create an alternate root zone managed by participating ISPs in order to enhance domain name space with respect to numerical DNS friendly identifiers. The invention is enabled to perform mnemonic conversion techniques when translating a specific class of numerical FDNs into the e164.arpa domain.

The invention enables any ISP DNS server to be configured to point to a root zone alias or Virtual Zero Level Domain to enable clients to immediately and transparently use the benefits of improved DNS resolution. The present invention can use an emulated root domain or root zone alias to virtually eliminate failed DNS requests and or access resources across a plurality of namespaces. The present invention can resolve and forward unregistered DNS friendly identifiers to network resources configured to provide additional request type services such as resolution registration search discovery directory and information services. The invention can assist in financially sustaining Internet organizations such as ICANN IANA IETF ISOC and the like by realizing new sources of revenue.

The present Invention can perform a search engine request in response a hostname or domain name resolution request. The present invention can provide access to the listing of one or more trademark registrations relating to a search engine request of a keyword. The invention enables an autosearch to process any request other than that of a search request. The invention enables automatic termination of a detected autosearch to initiate an autoscan the autoscan adapted to access a request portal and or perform one of a search and registration request with the first domain name or keyword. The present invention can use a browser helper object to construct a URL to override a detected autosearch and access a network resource configured to extract autosearch parameters from the newly constructed URL.

In general in accordance with the present invention with a keyword a computer implemented method includes generating a domain name having the keyword and requesting a network resource corresponding to the domain name wherein the network resource is adapted to extract the keyword from the domain name.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention with a first domain name a computer implemented method includes generating a second domain name having the first domain name and requesting a network resource corresponding to the second domain name wherein the network resource is adapted to extract the first domain name from the second domain name.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a DNS server includes a DNS query a root zone used for attempting to resolve the DNS query and at least one configuration parameter adapted to resolve the DNS query when it is determined that the root zone can not resolve the DNS query.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention a root zone having at least one root resource record for resolving a DNS query includes a first root resource record configured to resolve the DNS query when it is determined that the DNS query does not include a top level domain.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a root zone having at least one root resource record for resolving a DNS query includes a first root resource record configured to resolve the DNS query when no other root resource record is in the root zone or when no other root resource record in the root zone is configured to resolve the DNS query.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention a method for presenting search results includes obtaining the search results wherein at least one search result includes a resource identifier corresponding to a measure of intellectual property usage ordering the search results based on the measure of intellectual property usage and presenting the ordered search results.

In accordance with another aspect of the present Invention a DNS server includes a DNS query having a highest level domain HLD a root zone having at least one root resource record and the root resource record adapted to resolve the DNS query when it is determined that the HLD is a top level domain alias TLDA .

In accordance with yet additional aspects of the present invention a device or system which implements substantially the same functionality in substantially the same manner as the methods described above is provided.

In accordance with other additional aspects of the present invention a computer readable medium that includes computer executable instructions may be used to perform substantially the same methods as those described above is provided.

The foregoing and other features of the invention are hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail one or more illustrative aspects of the invention such being indicative however of but one or a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout.

Client computers may be any network access apparatus including hand held devices palmtop computers personal digital assistants PDAs notebook laptop portable computers desktop PCs workstations and or larger smaller computer systems. It is noted that the network access apparatus may have a variety of forms including but not limited to a general purpose computer a network computer a network television an internet television a set top box a web enabled telephone an internet appliance a portable wireless device a television receiver a game player a video recorder and or an audio component for example.

Each client typically includes one or more processors memories and input output devices . An input device may be any suitable device for the user to give input to client computer for example a keyboard a 10 key pad a telephone key pad a light pen or any pen pointing device a touchscreen a button a dial a joystick a steering wheel a foot pedal a mouse a trackball an optical or magnetic recognition unit such as a bar code or magnetic swipe reader a voice or speech recognition unit a remote control attached via cable or wireless link to a game set television or cable box. A data glove an eye tracking device or any MIDI device may also be used. A display device may be any suitable output device such as a display screen text to speech converter printer plotter fax television set or audio player. Although the input device is typically separate from the display device they could be combined for example a display with an integrated touchscreen a display with an integrated keyboard or a speech recognition unit combined with a text to speech converter.

The servers may be similarly configured. However in many instances server sites include many computers perhaps connected by a separate private network. In fact the network may include hundreds of thousands of individual networks of computers. One aspect of the present invention includes a specific type of server system called a DNS server system which stores in memory a DNS database having DNS records resource records that translate domain names into IP addresses and vice versa. The DNS server system is connected to a network .

The DNS is a distributed database of mappings implemented in a hierarchy of DNS servers name servers and an application layer protocol that allows hosts and name servers to communicate in order to provide the translation service. Name servers are usually UNIX machines running BIND software. In order to deal with an issue of scale of the Internet the DNS uses a large number of name servers organized in a hierarchical fashion and distributed around the world. No single name server has all of the mappings for all of the hosts in the Internet. Instead the mappings are distributed across many name servers .

Although the client computers are shown separate from the server computers it should be understood that a single computer may perform the client and server roles. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the computer environment shown in is intended to be merely illustrative. The present invention may also be practiced in other computing environments. For example the present invention may be practiced in multiple processor environments wherein the client computer includes multiple processors. Moreover the client computer need not include all of the input output devices as discussed above and may also include additional input output devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may also be practiced with Intranets and more generally in distributed environments in which a client computer requests resources from a server computer.

During operation of the distributed system users of the clients may desire to access information records stored by the servers while utilizing for example the Web. The records of information can foe in the form of Web pages . The pages may be data records including as content plain textual information or more complex digitally encoded multimedia content such as software programs graphics audio signals videos and so forth. It should be understood that although this description focuses on locating information on the World Wide Web the system may also be used for locating information via other wide or local area networks WANs and LANs or information stored in a single computer using other communications protocols.

The clients may execute Web browser programs such as Netscape Navigator or MSIE to locate the pages or records . The browser programs enable users to enter addresses of specific Web pages to be retrieved. Typically the address of a Web page is specified as a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or more specifically as a URL. In addition when a page has been retrieved the browser programs may provide access to other pages or records by clicking on hyperlinks or links to previously retrieved Web pages. Such links may provide an automated way to enter the URL of another page and to retrieve that page.

A client of the DNS is called a resolver . Revolvers are typically located in the application layer of the networking software of each TCP IP capable machine. Users typically do not interact directly with the resolver . Resolvers query the DNS by directing queries at name servers which contain parts of the distributed database that is accessed by using the DNS protocols to translate domain names into IP addresses needed for transmission of information across the network. DNS is commonly employed by other application layer protocols including HTTP SMTP and FTP to translate user supplied domain names to IP addresses. When a browser program e.g. an HTTP client running on a user s machine requests a URL having a resolvable domain name in order for the user s machine to be able to send an HTTP request message to a server the user s machine must obtain the IP address of the domain name. The user machine then runs the resolver DNS client on the client side of the DNS application. The browser extracts the domain name from the URL and passes the domain name to the resolver on the client side of the DNS application. As part of a DNS query message the DNS client sends the domain name to a DNS server system connected to the Internet. The DNS client eventually receives a reply which includes the IP address for the domain name. The browser then opens a TCP connection to the HTTP server process located at the IP address.

When the domain name is determined resolvable step or when the URI includes a valid IP address step it is further determined in step whether a network resource such as a web page or web server can be located or found from the URI. When the network resource can be located step it can then be determined in step whether the network resource can be accessed. When content for example can be accessed from the web server network resource then the network resource is accessible from URI step and results if any may then be provided in step . When the domain name is determined not resolvable step or when the resource can not be found step or when the resource can not be accessed step then an error message can be presented in step .

For example a browser having a search function receives a keyword as input. Typically the keyword hostname is forwarded to the search function after a failed DNS request. By generating an identifier that is a domain name having the keyword the domain name can act as a carrier envelope to the keyword. A DNS server which can act as a proxy server and managed by an ISP for example can be adapted to resolve all such generated identifiers for the purpose of requesting e.g. registering searching or resolving at least a portion of the identifier. The DNS server can return an IP address of a network resource that is adapted to extract the keyword from the domain name identifier. In this way the activation of a search request after a failed DNS request can be avoided entirely enabling a browser to use keywords as a network navigation tool search tool and registration tool.

For example a browser having a search function receives a first domain name as input. Typically the first domain name is forwarded to the search function after a failed DNS request. By generating an identifier that is a second domain name having the first domain name the second domain name can act as a carrier envelope to the first domain name. A DNS server which can act as a proxy server and managed by an ISP for example can be adapted to resolve all such generated identifiers for the purpose of requesting e.g. registering searching or resolving etc. at least a portion of the identifier. The DNS server can return an IP address of a network resource that is adapted to extract the first domain name front the second domain name. In this way the activation of a search request after a failed DNS request can be avoided entirely enabling a browser to be use domain names as both a navigation tool search tool and registration tool.

For instance a browser receives the keyword example and the domain name example.keywordrouter.org is generated by a string manipulation operation such as that of an append function. This domain name can be generated on the client side e.g. from a DLL TCP IP stack configuration file or operating system registry or on any server e.g. ISP server DNS server proxy server etc . A resource record in the keywordrouter.org zone file can be used to access a network resource specifically adapted to perform a string manipulation operation such as a truncation operation to extract the keyword example and either automatically perform or provide a user with the opportunity to perform any non DNS type request one of a navigation request search request directory request discovery request and registration request depending upon configuration parameters.

For example when the keyword is obtained from the domain name it is desirable to determine how the keyword can be processed according to settings preferences or configuration parameters. For instance the keyword might not be registered in one or more contexts as shown above. A registration form can be inputted by a user or automatically populated based on a cookie or registration profile of the user. When a user submits such a form variables such as contact information and the like can be formatted exported passed in accordance with the requirements of the appropriate registrar registry search engine trademark office and the like.

In the case of searching the keyword as a trademark when registration information is provided a listing of trademark registrations relating to the keyword can be displayed including displaying such trademark registration information contemporaneously with displaying other search results and the like. For instance the search term or keywords west coast travel is obtained and a search engine request is performed the search term can also be used to query a trademark database to find trademarks tradenames servicemarks that may match or are similar to the search term. Such trademark results can be included and or accessed from any search results presented from the search engine request. An example of a URL that can be constructed to access trademark information while processing a search engine request is as follows 

UI elements for associating intellectual property related information to URLs can also be included. New entries for submitting patent trademark and copyright related information can be provided as part of the search engine submittal interface that pertains to search engine rankings and URL submittals. For instance a trademark identifier such as a country federal or state registration number or serial number logo or word mark can be provided to associate the submitter to the IP property right for the purpose of affecting the outcome of search engine rankings. A UI element can be used for binding a submitter or having a URL submitter declare that the submitter is the owner of the trademark or is authorized by the owner of the trademark to use the listed trademark. Another UI element can be used for submitting a digital certificate digital signature or PGP Public Key for the purpose of authenticating verifying and or communicating with the property owner of the intellectual property right. Similar UI elements not shown can also be used for providing patent and copyright related information as well.

The submittal of such an intellectual property identifier can correspond to a calculated measure of IP strength. For instance on a scale from 1 to 10 a state trademark may yield a 6 where as a federal trademark would yield a 10. The inclusion of an authentication identifier such as a digital signature may have a value of 8 etc. A composite value can be calculated as a means so measure brand strength. This value can be stored as part of the URL submittal data record. This new kind of IP related metric for measuring IP authorized usage can be used to place more importance on such a submittal and yield a higher search engine ranking for search engine results based on search terms similar to or matching the trademark or other IP rights including patents and copyrights.

As shown in the background of the present invention there are only a few applications in which a wildcard RR has been used. Some known uses include e mail aliasing domain name registration and virtual subdomains. Further use of wildcard RRs have been shown by Schneider in previous co pending patent application Ser. Nos. 09 682 133 and 09 682 351 by using a TLD wildcard RR for the purpose of creating competition between registration providers and using a root zone wildcard RR for the purpose of creating a competitive market driven namespace provider system to handle fictitious domain names having top level domain aliases.

When the input domain name is a FDN having a TLDA and the wildcard RR is in a root zone file then a corresponding network resource adapted to determine which naming service registry namespace provider can resolve the FDN having a TLDA. This determination can be made automatically based on any combination of parameters including configuration settings metadata user preferences past history currently available resources environment variables cookies and the like. If need be the option of determining a resolution method may be provided enabling a user to select at least one namespace provider from a plurality of namespace providers.

Nameservers found at a domain called isp.com representative of any Internet Service Provider can typically include an ISP DNS Server that can access the public DNS root alternate naming service providers such as new.net domain can include an alternate DNS Server that can access an alternate DNS root e.g. com net tv cc kids search agent travel etc. . The alternate root usually comprises the ICANN root as well as additional alternate TLDs. Such alternate root zones have never included a resource record adapted to resolve a DNS query for an exact name that does not produce an exact match e.g. wildcard RR . Some ISPs have partnered with such alternate naming services to provide additional user benefit.

 zonecache.com domain can include a Virtual DNS Server that can access an emulated DNS root zone also called a Virtual Zero Level Domain VZLD or root zone alias. Though the VZLD can include the ICANN DNS root such an emulated root domain does not need to include any additional alternate TLDs. The purpose of this particular VZLD is to mirror the DNS while minimizing the volume of failed DNS resolutions. Any DNS subdomain can be configured to operate as a VZLD. VZLD can also include information about the authoritative name servers for virtual top level domains VTLDs . For instance each TLD can have a corresponding VTLD as will be shown in conjunction with .

In effect a VZLD can include at least one resource record for resolving a DNS query where a first resource record is configured to resolve the DNS query when no other resource record is in the VZLD or when no other resource record in the VZLD is configured to resolve the DNS query. For instance the resource record can be configured to resolve the DNS query when it is determined that the DNS query does not include a top level domain or more specifically when it is determined that the DNS query includes a top level domain alias. The VZLD can further include a second resource record configured to forward a DNS query having a top level domain TLD to a corresponding VTLD zone having a VTLD resource record configured to resolve the DNS query having the VTLD when no other VTLD resource record is in the VTLD zone or when no other VTLD resource record in the VTLD zone is configured to resolve the DNS query having the VTLD. In turn the VTLD can further include a second resource record configured to forward a DNS query having a second level domain SLD to a corresponding Virtual SLD VSLD zone having a resource record configured to resolve the DNS query having the VSLD when no other resource record is in the VSLD zone or when no other resource record in the VSLD zone is configured to resolve the DNS query having the VSLD. These resource records which link across a plurality of domains zones can link across all domain levels e.g. 3LD 4LD 5LD etc. in a virtual DNS.

When the above root zone alias is queried to resolve name.game for example it is determined that there is no TLD called game . The wildcard RR is detected and passes the query value of name.game to a server labeled tlda.arpa . In effect the wildcard RR treats the query as resolvable and redirects name.game to tlda.arpa for further processing such as namespace resolution registration services search services directory services and or discovery services through a TLDA Registry or licensed Metaregistry. Namespace providers may register to participate in FDN resolution by providing API resolver parameters delimiter mappings namespace mappings Namespace ID or any other parameters that can transform FDNs having a TLDA into the sponsored namespace managed by the provider. For instance RealNames can participate by registering their Unified Resolution and Discovery Protocol URDP resolver service and Microsoft can participate in registering their Universal Directory Discovery and Integration UDDI system to receive and process FDNs detected during DNS resolution for example.

There are many namespaces e.g. multilingual names fictitious domain names ENUM Credit Card Numbers URNs etc. that serve as a layer to the DNS. The relationship of these different naming systems may be looked at as a hub and spokes wherein the DNS serves as a hub with each namespace in relationship to the DNS serving as a spoke. These namespaces may now be accessed as a result of root zone wildcard redirection. The domain name tlda.arpa may serve as a wildcard gateway portal also called a primary zero level domain to determine what type of redirector string or Secondary Virtual ZLD SVZLD may be used accessed if at all to resolve other namespaces within the DNS. The Primary Zero Level Domain PZLD is in operative association with a network resource adapted to determine how to process the detected domain identifier having a top level domain alias.

The virtual TLD zone alias can be populated with every resource record from the original published TLD zone and include the wildcard RR . For example the original published .NET TLD zone can be accessed and updated each day from VeriSign Registry with a signed zone file access agreement in place. Additional resource records can be included that are representative of SLDs that have virtual SLD zone aliases. For instance SITEMAP.NET. is a SLD that will list 3LD entries for the SITEMAP.NET. domain from a nameserver called sitemap.net.zonecache.com . For instance the owner of the domain sitemap.net may wish to have DNS services managed by a virtual zone alias provider such as zonecache.com . Such a zone alias provider can perform any associated 3LD registration discovery directory information and request type services as needed on behalf of the SLD holder.

A hierarchy of nameservers in the DNS system are successfully queried until the appropriate DNS server is accessed. The DNS server includes a zone file having one or more resource records . In addition the DNS server also includes initialization and configuration files called named.root named.conf and resolv.conf . Primary secondary and caching only DNS servers when first configured need to know the IP addresses of root servers so that they can begin to resolve client requests about other zones. A default list of root servers is typically provided in the named.root file . The data in the named.conf file specifies general configuration characteristics for the name server defines each zone for which the name server is responsible and provides further configuration information per zone. Data in the resolv.conf file specifies general configuration characteristics for the resolver including naming one or more specific name servers to query in a particular order and naming one or more specific zones to query in a particular order.

Changes can be made to these initialization and configuration flies to adapt a DNS server to perform aspects of the present invention. The initial set of root name servers is specified using a hint zone. When the server starts up it uses the root hints to find a root name server and get the most recent list of root name servers. For instance a root zone hint file can be placed in named.conf to call named.root when needed. A wildcard resource record can be placed in named.root to enable resolution of DNS friendly identifiers having TLDAs. Further changes can be made to named.root to enable a VTLD zone to be accessed instead of a TLD zone. Instead of using a root zone hint file named.conf can include a file that will slave the root zone from a zonecache.com master DNS server that manages a VZLD or root zone alias. In addition resolv.conf can be configured to append zonecache.com when a DNS friendly identifier such as a numerical FDN e.g. 216.555.1212 can not be resolved by the public DNS root. After a first DNS query fails the domain name 216.555.1212.zonecache.com can be constructed. The zone for zonecache.com domain can be configured as a VZLD and access a root zone alias that can resolve the 216.555.1212 identifier.

For example when a DNS query includes a DNS friendly identifier such as a numerical fictitious domain name NFDN e.g. 216.555.1212 and a root domain alias DNS Root plus wildcard is accessed the NFDN can be resolved by translating the NFDN into an IP address. In turn a network resource is configured to detect that the NFDN is more specifically a DNS friendly telephone number identifier and respond but translating the NFDN into the RFC 2916 compliant 2.1.2.1.5.5.5.6.1.2.1.e164.arpa .

In another example when http alt.binaries is received and the .binaries TLDA is detected it can be further detected that alt is a top level news category and that http alt.binaries is the incorrect protocol associated with the identifier. The PVZLD can be configured to detect such an error and correct it by constructing a new URL such as nntp alt.binaries .

An alternate root by definition includes alternate top level domains. The alternate root also includes the legacy root now maintained by the US Government ICANN root . There exists no known published root zone e.g. public DNS root alternate root operating outside of ICANN authority etc. that has ever included a wildcard RR nor does there exist any known proposal for the inclusion of such a RR. The addition of a wildcard RR to the public DNS root does not add any new TLDs and therefore can not be called an alternate root. Only the U.S. Government can delegate authority to ICANN to add such a wildcard resource record to the public DNS root. If such a decision was ever made unregistered DNS friendly identifiers could then be resolved and forwarded to network resources configured to provide additional request type services such as resolution registration search discovery directory and information services. In this way such request portal type services for a fictitious domain name can function similar to that of parked page services similar to that of registered domain names. By so doing new sources of revenue can be realized to help financially sustain Internet organizations such as ICANN IANA IETF ISOC and the like.

The selection of a root zone to point to is a voluntary act by DNS name server administrators and end user client software. A nameserver of any DNS subdomain e.g. ISP DNS server can be configured to point to a root zone alias or Virtual Zero Level Domain to enable clients to immediately and transparently use the benefits of improved DNS resolution. The use of the root zone wildcard could reduce or eliminate the need for client systems to intercept a received identifier before reaching the DNS and or further process the received identifier in response to a DNS error upon resolving the identifier. Because the wildcard can be used as a means to access other alternate roots the single authoritative root can remain unified but yet have a synergistic relationship to alternate roots that participate in communicating with the primary virtual ZLD PVZLD or authoritative ZLD absolute ZLD AZLD . The wildcard RR or any resource record that functions similar to a wildcard used in a root zone or root zone alias can restore the intended purpose of the DNS by creating a unified global public infrastructure with respect to itself and in addition to other naming systems.

The BIND configuration can Be reloaded with the command ndc reload . Included in the stub zone are numerical extensions that can be four or more digits in length. Adding a three digit numerical extension is not advisable because a DNS friendly identifier could potentially be incorrectly processed and mistake an IP address for a numerical domain name. By populating the stub zone with numerical extensions real numerical domain names can be resolved. For instance a four digit extension stub can be used to process a telephone number such as 216.555.1212 or a social security number such as 123.45.1212 a 5 digit extension stub can be used to process a zip code domain name such as info.44106 or a UPC code domain name such as 93371.44106 . Furthermore in the case of zip code TLDs a .44106 zone can function as an alias and point to the same nameservers that have the zone cleveland.oh.us for example. N digit extensions can be applied as needed to represent any form of numerical TLD. In a preferred aspect the stub zone is used as a convenience so that a root zone such as an ICANN root does not have to be modified. In another aspect of the present invention numerical TLDs can be included to create an alternate root zone managed by participating ISPs in order to enhance domain name space with respect to numerical DNS friendly identifiers.

For example when the above numerical domain zone file is queried to resolve 555.1212 it is determined that there is no 3LD and therefore the numerical domain name does not include an area code. The wildcard RR is detected and passes the query value of 555.1212 to a server labeled areacodeportal.com . In effect the wildcard RR treats the query as resolvable and redirects 555.1212 to a network resource corresponding to areacodeportal.com for further processing. Such a network resource can be configured to present all possible area codes for the numerical domain name 555.1212 enabling a user to select the intended area code. The wildcard RR can redirect incorrect area codes as well. For instance 999.555.1212 is not in the 555.1212 zone file and can in turn redirect to the network resource corresponding to areacodeportal.com to select a correct area code.

A default area code or list of area codes may be included in configuration settings. This includes the ability to access one or more area codes from the operating system registry or from the current dialup settings of a client machine. A history folder can be consulted or a cookie can be placed on the client as a means to retrieve the most likely area code s in response to receiving an incomplete telephone number domain name identifier. Similar techniques can be applied to the autosearch to process NFDNs that are representative of telephone numbers in dot notation as well. Techniques for converting FDNs into the e164.arpa domain can include mnemonic conversion techniques. For instance the DNS friendly identifier 1.800.AUTOMOBILE equivalent to 1 800 AUTOMOB or 1 800 288 6662 can pass through the DNS and either be redirected via a root zone wildcard or autosearch template to transform the FDN into a RFC 2916 compliant identifier such as 2.6.6.6.8.8.2.0.0.8.1.e164.arpa .

For instance program code can be executed to add an entry to a client HOSTS file and operating system registry as follows 

Such configurations enable automatic termination of a detected autosearch to initiate an autoscan the autoscan adapted to access a request portal and or perform one of a search and registration request with the first domain name or keyword. In effect the autoscan can be configured to function as an autosearch autoregistration and or autorequest enabling third party providers to compete with Microsoft for keyword searches and failed DNS resolutions.

A Browser Helper Object BHO is a dynamic link library DLL that allows developers to customize and control MSIE. Whenever an instance of the browser is launched it reads the registry to locate installed BHO s and then creates them. Created BHO s then have access to all the events and properties of that browsing session. Applications which install BHOs are becoming more popular. For example Alexa uses a BHO to monitor page navigation and show related page links. Go Zilla use BHO s to monitor and control file downloading.

BHO can be configured to detect an autosearch request by monitoring navigation events and status bar events e.g. DISPID BEFORENAVIGATE2 DISPID STATUSTEXTCHANGE and the like. For instance when the domain component auto.search.msn.com is detected in a first URL or in the status bar text the BHO can construct a second URL by replacing the domain component with requestportal.com . The second URL is used to override the autosearch and access a network resource corresponding to requestportal.com that is configured to extract autosearch parameters from the newly constructed URL. Additionally the BHO can record location field input or buffer the keyword or first domain name before a navigation event to assist in constructing the second URL.

In another aspect of the present invention a BHO can be configured to detect TLDAs in DNS friendly identifiers from the input buffer or from the detection of a DNS type event such as that of a network resource location request or domain name resolution request. A list of ICANN compliant TLDs can be maintained client side or as part of a login file script. Such a list can be periodically synchronized with the DNS to generate new updated TLD lists from root zone updates. In fact one of ordinary skill in the art can configure a TLD list to be accessed client side via any OSI model layer such as application network transport layer etc. For instance Windows sockets WinSock is an Application Programming Interface API for developing Microsoft Windows compatible programs that can communicate with other machines via the TCP IP protocol or the like. A WinSock DLL provides the standard API and each vendor s service provider layer is installed below the standard API. The API layer communicates to a service provider via a standardized Service Provider Interface SPI and can multiplex between multiple service providers simultaneously. Winsock2 includes a default name space provider. Another name space provider can be installed for the purpose of processing FDNs having TLDAs.

One or more programs can be constructed to perform one or more aspects of the present invention. The program may be integrated as part of an API operating system or plug in add on for a web browser . Such a program may be downloaded and installed for integration into the command line of a device or location field of a browser program . In addition such a program product may be combined with other plug in products e.g. NeoPlanet RealNames Netword NetZero ICQ AIM I DNS WALID Quick Click Google etc. to offer additional functionality and to more quickly reach an existing customer base. Program installation may be activated in response to accessing a web site or any network resource corresponding to a URI.

Modifying the source code of the browser program itself or OS e.g. Windows Linux NT UNIX MAC etc. may be more desirable in effect enabling tens or hundreds of millions of users to take advantage of more creative ways to use indicia such as FDNs as a means to access a valid URI.

For any of the above implementations HLD resolvability may be determined before during and or after DNS resolution on the client side server side or at any point at any point on a network including at a peer to peer machines prosy servers firewalls hubs routers resolvers e.g. DNS resolvers RealNames resolvers Netword Resolvers UDDI resolvers etc. and nameservers etc. In addition the step of HLD resolvability may further reside in hardware software and or firmware e.g. network card BIOS adapter cards etc. . HLD resolvability may be determined before processing a name resolution request or in response to determining that the domain name is unresolvable.

MSIE browser or other programs that use the MSIE shell may forward an identifier having an unresolvable domain name or FDN to the autosearch feature for further processing. Instead of prompting the client browser to display an error message the identifier may instead be processed by the autosearch and or routed to another naming service provider for further processing. For example such input may be routed to a FDN registry or to a FDN translation service in operative association with a RealNames server and or similar resolver and the like. Modifications may be made to the script program template running the autosearch that generates the response.asp web page on the server auto.search.msn.com to enable FDN processing and or processing a search request having the FDN or unresolvable domain name.

An extra template may be created and used in the registry of the MSIE autosearch feature. When the auto.search.msn.com server detects that the request includes a TLDA the extra template may be used as a means to access an authorization database registry name translation database or GO LIST to determine how to generate a valid URI that corresponds to the received FDN having a TLDA. By using an extra template the browser program does not have to be modified thereby eliminating distribution costs for a browser version update.

Other templates may be included and used for processing prefix suffix delimiters URI redirection from SLD or HLD e.g. acme. .net or .sports to a corresponding vertical market directory service using a TLDA as a customized search term e.g. TLDA Query using a template for each resolution method and creating a user definable template in conjunction with specified component data at the time of registration or thereafter.

In one aspect of the present invention name tracking databases name translation databases or registries may be centrally maintained and updated through redundant servers. The data structure of such information may be stored as metadata e.g. XML or in any other format to allow integration of such data with the data managed by other naming service providers. Through Application Programming Interface API naming service providers can communicate with such resolvers registries and or databases. Furthermore access can be both platform and language independent. For instance the TLDA registry can be accessed through any gateway such as Mobile Access Gateway. All requests may be routed to a NAPTR RR SRV RR or round robin DNS for the purposes of distributing bandwidth and load balancing across a server farm. The server farm may include dedicated servers for each database or parts of a single database that operate in parallel to assure high throughput. In other aspects the name translation databases or registries may be maintained and updates propagated in a distributed hierarchy similar to that of the DNS.

The name tracking database may be enhanced by combining the data from the name translation database and storing it at the Internet Service Provider ISP level to act as a distributed cache for minimizing bandwidth of server requests across the backbone of the Internet. The enhanced name tracking database may also be distributed as a client side cache for even quicker access particularly when the network is unstable or unreliable causing retrieval delays or when a network connection is lost.

This invention may be implemented in networks and distributed systems of varying scope and scale. The registry registration records name translation database or name tracking database may be located at separate sites and separate computers in a large distributed system. However the various servers and clients described may actually be processes running on various computers and interacting to form a distributed and or peer to peer system. In smaller implementations some or all of the various servers described may actually be processes running on a single computer. All such components of the fictitious domain identifier system are robust secure and scalable. Security methods including authorization techniques may be applied to all information records in the system including registries and DNS resource records.

Pre navigation methods may also be applied to FDN detection techniques. Improvements may be made to the autosearch and or browser for example to try and apply such FDN techniques in yet earlier steps or in later steps. There may further be included any number of other steps that may be performed between the step of determining a domain name is fictitious and processing the FDN such as requesting a network resource or performing a registration request and or search request. In effect FDN detection may occur before any validity tests and after failed DNS resolution requests for example.

The same teachings may be applied to those skilled in the art by providing a text box object as input that can be located anywhere and on any web page including a text box that is embedded or part of an on line advertisement. The text box object may be used in a stand alone application and stored on magnetic and or optical media that is either non volatile writable removable or portable. The text box object may be incorporated as an applet or servlet and embedded in other applications. The text box may be integrated in the task bar or any part of the GUI s OS or the OS bypassed and overlaid as a graphic on a display device based on modifications to a video card and or it s associated firmware or software drivers. The command line text box may further be overlaid as an interactive graphical object in other embodiments such as Internet television cable television digital television or interactive television through an Internet appliance or set top box.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to a certain preferred aspect or aspects it is obvious that equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described items referred to by numerals components assemblies devices compositions etc. the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such items are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any item which performs the specified function of the described item e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspect or aspects of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been described above with respect to only one of several illustrated aspects such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other aspects as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

The description herein with reference to the figures will be understood to describe the present invention in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in a variety of applications and devices. It will be readily apparent that various changes and modifications could be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

