---

title: Vehicle object detection and notification system
abstract: Disclosed and described herein is a vehicle object notification system comprising a steering interface that includes a plurality of light-emitting elements, each of the light-emitting elements arranged in an elongated pattern along a respective portion of the steering interface, wherein a first light emitting element is configured to illuminate based on a detection of an object relative to a first portion of a vehicle and a second light emitting element is configured to illuminate based on a detection of an object relative to a second portion of a vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580012&OS=09580012&RS=09580012
owner: TK Holdings Inc.
number: 09580012
owner_city: Auburn Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150302
---
The present disclosure relates generally to object detection and notification systems for vehicles and more particularly to solutions for integrating delivery of object detection information with vehicle control steering systems.

Many modern mobile machines and vehicles are equipped with object detection and collision avoidance systems. For example many modern automobiles include a collision avoidance system that includes a rear facing vehicle mounted video camera that is connected to an in dash multi function display monitor. When the vehicle is placed in reverse the collision avoidance system automatically activates the camera and displays the corresponding video feed on the in dash display providing the driver with rear visibility with a greater field of vision than is generally provided by the rear view mirror s . Some collision avoidance systems also include additional safety measures such as proximity alarms for notifying the driver of nearby objects and auto braking schemes for causing the vehicle to automatically brake when the vehicle moves to within a threshold distance of a nearby object.

Although conventional collision avoidance systems may be convenient when the vehicle is moving particularly when the vehicle is travelling in reverse or other situations in which driver visibility is impeded by driver blind spots there a several drawbacks. First many interactive display technologies used in conventional collision avoidance systems require a relatively high level of driver attentiveness which can distract the driver from other potentially hazardous situations. For example requiring the driver to look at a dash mounted video screen while backing up into a busy street may distract the driver from pedestrian or vehicle traffic travelling toward the sides of the vehicle. As a result although the video monitoring system may keep the driver keenly apprised of hazards approaching from behind the vehicle the level of attention required to for the driver to process full motion video may actually serve to distract the driver from other potential hazards near the vehicle.

In addition to driver distraction closed circuit display technologies used in many conventional collision avoidance systems can be costly. For example many driver awareness camera system options can add 10 20 to the cost of a standard vehicle. While this may be acceptable in luxury markets or other environments where such a cost premium can be justified it may be cost prohibitive in many situations such as fleet vehicles for local governments and small companies.

Various implementations of vehicle object detection and notification systems and corresponding information delivery methods disclosed herein are directed to overcoming one or more of the problems set forth above and or other problems in the art.

According to various implementations a vehicle object notification system includes a steering interface that includes a plurality of light emitting elements. Each of the light emitting elements is arranged in an elongated pattern along a respective portion of the steering interface. A first light emitting element is configured to illuminate based on a detection of an object relative to a first portion of a vehicle and a second light emitting element is configured to illuminate based on a detection of an object relative to a second portion of a vehicle. In some implementations the first light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a rim portion of the steering interface and is configured to illuminate when the object is located in front of the vehicle. The second light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a hub portion of the steering interface and is configured to illuminate when the object is located behind the vehicle or underneath the vehicle. Alternatively the second light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a second rim portion of the steering interface.

In some implementations the first light emitting element may include a plurality of regions that are each configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the object relative to the first portion of the vehicle. In addition the second light emitting element may include a plurality of regions that are each configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the object relative to the second portion of the vehicle.

Various other implementations include a vehicle object notification system that includes a steering interface at least one light emitting element coupled to the steering interface and a controller communicatively coupled to the at least one light emitting element. The light emitting element is arranged in an elongated pattern along at least a portion of the steering interface. The controller is configured to 1 receive information indicative of an object detected proximate the vehicle 2 determine the location of the object relative to a portion of the vehicle based on the received information and 3 provide to the light emitting element a control signal for illuminating the light emitting element according to an illumination pattern. The illumination pattern is based on the location of the object.

In some implementations the vehicle object notification system may include a plurality of light emitting elements. A first light emitting element is arranged in an elongated pattern along a first portion of the steering interface and a second light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a second portion of the steering interface. The first portion of the steering interface may include a rim portion and the second portion of the steering interface may include a hub portion.

In some implementations determining the location of the object relative to the portion of the vehicle may include determining the location of the object is in a first location relative to the portion of the vehicle and providing the control signal to the light emitting element may include providing the control signal to the first light emitting element. The first location may include an area in front of the vehicle. In addition or as an alternative determining the location of the object relative to the portion of the vehicle may include determining the location of the object is in a second location relative to the portion of the vehicle and providing the control signal to the light emitting element includes providing the control signal to the second light emitting element. The second location may include at least one of an area behind the vehicle or underneath the vehicle.

In certain implementations the first light emitting element may include a plurality of regions and each region is configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the object relative to a first portion of the vehicle. In addition the second light emitting element may include a plurality of regions and each region is configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the object relative to a second portion of the vehicle.

Various implementations are directed to a vehicle that includes one or more ground engaging devices a steering interface coupled to one or more ground engaging devices at least one light emitting element coupled to the steering interface and a controller communicatively coupled to the light emitting element. The steering interface includes a rim portion and a hub portion and the rim portion is configured for grasping by an operator of the vehicle. The light emitting element is arranged in an elongated pattern along at least a portion of at least one of the rim portion and the hub portion. The controller is configured to 1 receive information indicative of an object detected proximate the vehicle 2 determine the location of the object relative at a portion of the vehicle based on the received information and 3 providing to the light emitting element a control signal for illuminating the light emitting element according to an illumination pattern. The illumination pattern is based on the location of the object.

In certain implementations the light emitting element may include a plurality of light emitting elements. A first light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a first portion of the steering interface and a second light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a second portion of the steering interface. The first portion of the steering may include a rim portion and the second portion of the steering interface may include a hub portion. In addition in some implementations determining the location of the object relative to the portion of the vehicle includes determining the location of the object is in a first location relative to the portion of the vehicle and providing the control signal to the light emitting element includes providing the control signal to the first light emitting element. The first location may include an area in front of the vehicle.

In addition in certain implementations determining the location of the object relative to the portion of the vehicle may include determining the location of the object is in a second location relative to the portion of the vehicle and providing the control signal to the light emitting element may include providing the control signal to the second light emitting element. The second location may include at least one of an area behind the vehicle or underneath the vehicle.

The first light emitting element may include a plurality of regions and each region may be configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the object relative to a first portion of the vehicle. In addition the second light emitting element may include a plurality of regions and each region may be configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the object relative to a second portion of the vehicle.

According to various implementations a vehicle object notification system includes a steering interface that includes a plurality of light emitting elements. Each of the light emitting elements is arranged in an elongated pattern along a respective portion of the steering interface. A first light emitting element is configured to illuminate based on a detection of an object relative to a first portion of a vehicle and a second light emitting element is configured to illuminate based on a detection of an object relative to a second portion of a vehicle. In certain implementations the first light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a rim portion of the steering interface and is configured to illuminate when the object is located in front of the vehicle. The second light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a hub portion of the steering interface and is configured to illuminate when the object is located behind the vehicle or underneath the vehicle. Alternatively the second light emitting element may be arranged in an elongated pattern along a second rim portion of the steering interface.

Certain exemplary implementations of the invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. In general such implementations relate to a steering apparatus for a vehicle. illustrates a vehicle with a vehicle object notification system according to one implementation . As shown in the vehicle can comprise one or more ground engaging devices shown as tires with rims in this vehicle but can be runners tracks etc. in other types of vehicles . A steering interface can be coupled to one or more ground engaging devices. Generally the steering interface comprises at least a steering grip that can be configured for gripping to facilitate control of the vehicle. For example the steering grip may be mounted on a non rotatable component not shown such that the steering grip is rotationally movable about a steering axis. An exemplary non rotatable component can include for example a steering column which receives a steering spindle that extends along the steering axis and serves to transmit the rotational movement of the steering grip to the wheels or other ground engaging devices of the motor vehicle. Rotational movement of the steering grip may be transmitted to the wheels by mechanical and or electrical means. In an exemplary implementation the steering grip can include a single continuous grip portion or any number of unique grip sections. For example the steering grip can include an annular ring shape with an outer contour that is essentially circular in shape. In an alternate implementation the steering grip can define any suitable shape including for example circular elliptical semi circular or semi elliptical square rectangular or any other regular or irregular shape. In addition in some implementations the steering grip may include two or more semi circular semi elliptical semi rectangular or other regular or irregular shaped portions. For example in one implementation the steering grip may include two semi circular sections e.g. resembling a flight yoke .

Though not visible in in some implementations the steering interface can further comprise a rim portion and a hub portion the rim portion configured for grasping by an operator of the vehicle . Further comprising the implementation shown in can be a controller . The controller can be communicatively coupled to at least one light emitting element coupled to the steering interface the at least one light emitting element arranged for example in an elongated pattern along at least a portion of at least one of the rim portion and the hub portion of the steering interface .

The controller may be configured to direct operation of the at least one light emitting element. The controller can be associated with the steering interface . In an exemplary implementation the controller may be located on or proximate the at least one light emitting element. In an alternative implementation the controller may be located on or otherwise associated with the electronic control unit of the vehicle . In a further implementation the controller may be located on or otherwise associated with another vehicle system. Where the controller is associated with a system other than the steering interface wired and or wireless communication lines i.e. data and or power wires including fiber optic radio frequency Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 any variant Bluetooth etc. may be provided from the alternate system to the light element . For example the at least one light emitting element may be connected to the vehicle s electronic control unit ECU by a wire run from the ECU unit to the at least one light emitting element. In a further example particular zones on the at least one light emitting element may communicate with a processor associated with a system other than the steering interface and communication lines i.e. data and or power wires may be provided from the alternate system to the zoned at least one light emitting element.

In an exemplary implementation the at least one light emitting element and the controller are connected in communication with the vehicle by at least two wires where the first wire may provide a power source to the at least one light emitting element and the controller and the second wire provides a data connection between the steering interface and the vehicle. In a further example the at least one light emitting element and the controller may be connected in communication with the vehicle by two wires one including multiple communication lines and the second wire including power source. For example where the at least one light emitting element includes 6 zones the first wire may include 6 communication lines for directing the operation of the corresponding zones and the second wire may be a power source for providing power to the at least one light emitting element. The at least one light emitting element and the controller may alternatively be in communication with the vehicle at only a power source.

In an exemplary implementation the controller may be configured to receive information from the vehicle. Information received from the vehicle may include for example GPS global positioning system information navigation information foreign object proximity information vehicle performance information general warning information course information positioning information blind spot warning and the like available from on board sensors and systems such as cameras radar LIDAR light detection and ranging systems vehicle communication system information and any other information relevant to the operation of the vehicle the status of the user and or the functioning of the steering interface .

Navigation information may include for example a preparation for course change e.g. lane recommendation in anticipation of pending course change a navigation course change e.g. instructions for following determined route and or notification that the determined route has been recalculated and a distance to course change e.g. distance to turn . Foreign object proximity information may include for example the distance and direction to an identified foreign object the size of a foreign object and the relative speed and direction of the foreign object. Foreign object information can also include foreign individual proximity information. For example vehicle systems can be used to detect an unauthorized person s presence in on proximate the vehicle e.g. sensors within the vehicle can detect the touch weight pressure etc. of unauthorized individual in on proximate the vehicle . Example sensors might include capacitive sensors pressure sensors conductivity resistivity sensors and weight sensors. Foreign individual proximity information may be utilized in conjunction with any vehicle security alarm system.

Vehicle performance information may include for example on off operation of the vehicle battery life status fuel level fuel efficiency engine RPM vehicle oversteer vehicle understeer turbocharger supercharger boost pressure an electrical vehicle eV status stop and go vehicle mode steering interface straight ahead position vehicle lateral acceleration autonomous vehicle driving state information adaptive cruise control state information keyless entry e.g. confirmation approved key fob detected and keyless ignition operation traction control electronic stability control braking control e.g. anti lock braking system control status active handling mode vehicle track race competition mode. General vehicle warning information may include for example occupant restraint information airbag status information door or window open ajar closed sunroof moon roof open ajar closed low tire pressure vehicle audio system status e.g. entertainment system audio volume equalizer display function speaker control e.g. left right front rear etc. vehicle communication system status e.g. incoming call Bluetooth activated connected etc. heating and air conditioning system e.g. temperature fan speed other temperature control systems e.g. heated cooled steering wheel headed cooled seats beverage coolers oil heater battery heater transmission heater etc. . Course information may include for example a measure of a course remaining e.g. a racing lap time countdown as a binary clock lap segments time segments etc. and a measure of the course remaining completed e.g. quantity of racing laps .

Operation of the at least one light emitting element may be directed in response to information received from the steering interface and or information received from the vehicle. The at least one light emitting element may be used to provide information and warning signals to the driver of the vehicle. In a further implementation the at least one light emitting element may be used to provide an aesthetically pleasing decorative effect. For example the at least one light emitting element may be used at vehicle start up to provide a decorative effect in addition to providing an indication to the driver of the vehicle s operation status.

Directing illumination of the at least one light emitting element may include for example the on off state of the at least one light emitting element intensity design pattern on off illumination cycle color or any other feature of the at least one light emitting element that can be controlled or otherwise manipulated. In an exemplary implementation the on off status of the at least one light emitting element can be controlled. For example in an implementation including multiple of the at least one light emitting element the quantity of light emitting elements illuminated at a given time can be used to indicate the magnitude and or scale of the warning or event the greater the number illuminated the greater the threat and or importance of the warning event. Similar to quantity the intensity of the at least one light emitting element can be used to indicate the magnitude and or scale of the warning or event the greater the light intensity the greater the threat and or importance of the warning event. The actual design pattern can be used to convey a particular message to the driver e.g. illuminated symbols shapes text icons etc. . Likewise the design pattern of illumination can be used to indicate the magnitude scale of the warning or event. The on off illumination cycle or frequency of illumination of the at least one light emitting element can also be controlled to create a flashing or strobe like effect. For example a high frequency on off illumination cycle may be used to indicate an important and or time sensitive event to the driver such as an impact or collision warning. In a further example when the at least one light emitting element comprises an infrared IR illuminator a strobed flashing light signal may be used to illuminate the driver s eyes for use in camera based driver monitoring systems. The operation of the exemplary IR illuminator type light emitting element may be timed in communication with a camera or other sensing device and a processor to capture an image of the driver s eyes or other portions of the driver s face and or body. Moreover the use of IR light emitting diodes LEDs can be used to mitigate light reflection when the driver is wearing eye glasses.

The selection of the at least one light emitting element for illumination at a certain position can also be used to indicate the relative position of the warning or event. For example if the one or more objects are detected at the front driver s side section of the vehicle the at least one light emitting element at a corresponding position on the rim portion of the steering interface i.e. upper left quadrant may be illuminated. Likewise if the one or more objects are detected at behind or underneath the vehicle the at least one light emitting element at the hub portion of the steering interface may be illuminated. Similarly the on off illumination cycle may be used to create a motion effect. The perceived direction of the light pattern can be used to indicate the relative direction of warning. For example an on off illumination pattern starting from the center of the steering interface and progressing toward the left side of the interface may create an illuminated wave like effect toward the left that can be used to indicate a warning event associated with the left side of the vehicle or an indication to the driver of a pending course change in a navigational setting.

The controller can receive information indicative of one or more objects detected on in or proximate to the vehicle . Once information indicative of the objects is received by the controller the controller can determine the location of the one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle based on the received information. For example the controller can determine whether the one or more objects are in front of the vehicle as children are shown in are underneath the vehicle as dog is shown in are behind the vehicle are to any side of the vehicle are above the vehicle are in the vehicle and their location within the vehicle are on the vehicle and location are touching the vehicle and location etc. The controller can be communicatively coupled with one or more sensors that can be used to provide the information indicative of the objects to the controller . Example sensors might include motion sensors capacitive sensors pressure sensors conductivity resistivity sensors heat sensors weight sensors proximity sensors and the like and combinations thereof. Alternatively or optionally the controller may receive information from vehicle systems. Information received from the vehicle can include for example GPS information on board sensor information camera information communication system information lane position information and the like.

Upon determining the location of the one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle based on the received information a control signal can be provided to the at least one light emitting element for illuminating the at least one light emitting element according to an illumination pattern the illumination pattern based on the location of the one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle .

Also as shown in in addition to the at least one light emitting element coupled to the steering interface the controller may also be in communication with other vehicle systems such as for example a steering control system a vehicle braking system a warning system such as for example the vehicles anti theft security alarm system and the like which can further be comprised of audible visual haptic devices for making the vehicle operator or other passengers or persons aware of the detection of one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle . For example steering may be locked or released through the steering control system depending upon the presence or absence of one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle . Similarly brakes can be applied or released by the braking system depending upon the presence or absence of one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle . Further alarms can be sounded and or warning lights operated through the vehicle s warning system depending upon the presence or absence of one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle . Similarly the controller may be connected with other vehicle systems to receive information or to operate or prevent operation of components of the vehicle depending upon the presence or absence of one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle .

In one implementation the at least one light emitting element of the vehicle can further comprise a plurality of light emitting elements such as for example a first light emitting element arranged in an elongated pattern along a first portion of the steering interface and a second light emitting element arranged in an elongated pattern along a second portion of the steering interface . For instance the first portion of the steering interface having the first light emitting element arranged in an elongated pattern can include a rim portion and the second portion of the steering interface having the second light emitting element arranged in an elongated pattern can include a hub portion. In one non limiting example determining the location of the one or more objects relative to the portion of the vehicle can include determining the location of the one or more objects is in a first location relative to the portion of the vehicle and providing the control signal to the at least one light emitting element includes providing the control signal to the first light emitting element. In one implementation the first location comprises an area in front of the vehicle . Likewise determining the location of the one or more objects relative to the portion of the vehicle can include determining the location of the one or more objects is in a second location relative to the portion of the vehicle and providing the control signal to the at least one light emitting element includes providing the control signal to the second light emitting element. In one implementation the second location comprises at least one of an area behind the vehicle or underneath the vehicle .

In an exemplary implementation the first light emitting element or the second light emitting element can display a single color or multiple colors. For example the exemplary LED can include a single color LED a bi color LED and a tri color LED. The first light emitting element and the second light emitting element do not have to display the same colors at the same time. The steering interface can include a single first light emitting element or any number of first light emitting elements . Similarly the steering interface can include a single second light emitting element or any number of second light emitting elements . Moreover different types of first light emitting elements and second light emitting elements may be implemented on the same steering apparatus . For example a steering grip may include both standard LEDs and IR LEDs and the first light emitting element can be comprised of a combination of the two types of LEDs as can the second light emitting element .

As described herein the first light emitting element can be located at any portion of the steering grip and the second light emitting element can be located in any other portion of the steering interface . The first light emitting element can be located on an interior edge of the steering grip . In an alternate implementation not shown the first light emitting element can be located on an exterior edge of the steering grip . In an alternate implementation not shown the first light emitting element can be located on a front or back face of the steering grip . The first light emitting element can be provided in a direction defined by the perimeter diameter of the steering grip . Similarly the second light emitting element can be an elongated pattern defined along at least a portion of the hub portion of the steering interface . The first light emitting element and the second light emitting element can define any suitable shape including for example circular elliptical square rectangular or any other regular or irregular shape. For example an exemplary first light emitting element can be provided with an elongated shape having curvilinear sides whereas an exemplary second light emitting element may lack the curvilinear sides. In an implementation provided in the first light emitting element can include a vertical element extending in a radial direction of the steering grip .

In a further implementation the vertical element can be used to indicate the relative position and threat level associated with a particular warning event. As illustrated in the vertical element may include a plurality of light elements. When the vehicle is in a straight ahead orientation the light elements centered in the vertical element may be illuminated. Because the relative threat warning level in the straight ahead position is minimal the illuminated light elements in this position may be green. In response to detection of one or more objects in front of the vehicle or to the left or right side of the vehicle the light elements on the left or right side respectively of the vertical element are illuminated. For example an initial indication that one or more objects are nearing the vehicle toward its left side may be provided by illumination of the light elements on the left side of the vertical section . These light elements may indicate a moderate threat warning and may be provided for example by yellow illuminated light elements. As the objects move progressively closer to the left side of the vehicle the light elements may change colors from yellow to red indicating that the risk level associated with the one or more objects has escalated from moderate to severe and or immediate. Further as the object is approaching the light elements in the vertical section may illuminate in a wave pattern suggesting the direction of the object and or the proximity of the object to the vehicle. As a further example the light elements in the vertical section may illuminate in an illumination pattern at a greater on off frequency at a particular quantity of light elements with greater intensity and or varying colors as the direction and or the proximity of the object to the vehicle change.

For example as illustrated in the steering interface may include a first single light emitting element spanning the entire perimeter of the steering interface thereby providing a 360 illumination system and a second elongated light emitting element in the hub of the steering interface . In an alternate implementation as illustrated in the steering interface may include a first single light emitting element along the upper half of the perimeter defined by the steering interface and a second elongated light emitting element in the hub of the steering interface . In further implementations illustrated in the steering interface may include multiple first light emitting elements and or second light emitting elements . Because the steering interface may be constructed to withstand substantial loading in the event of a crash a steering interface including multiple first light emitting elements and or second light emitting elements can provide for less likelihood that a first or second light emitting element will break upon impact and or airbag deployment. Moreover locating multiple first light emitting elements along the diameter of the steering interface and in particular along the upper half of the steering interface rim helps with the assembly process and improves the system s mechanical robustness to dynamic or static loading at the 12 o clock position on the rim of the steering interface . As illustrated in the steering interface may include multiple first light emitting elements along a first portion of the steering interface including for example a portion of the first light emitting element may be located on a right portion of the steering interface diameter and a portion of the first light emitting element may also be located on a left portion of the steering interface diameter. A second light emitting element arranged in an elongated pattern can be along a second portion of the steering interface . In this example the second light emitting element is located within the hub of the steering interface . In another implementation illustrated in the steering interface may include three first light emitting elements along a first portion of the steering interface and at least one second light emitting element arranged in an elongated pattern along a second portion of the steering interface . First light emitting element may be located on a right portion of the steering interface first light emitting element on a left portion of the steering interface first light emitting element on a top center portion of the steering interface between first light emitting elements and and second light emitting element located in the hub of the steering interface . In a further implementation not shown the steering interface may include a first light emitting element and or a second light emitting element located on a lower portion of the steering interface . Any number of locations and quantities of first light emitting elements and second light emitting elements are considered within the disclosed implementation.

In an exemplary implementation each of the first light emitting elements and the second light emitting elements can include a single zone or multiple zones for directing operation of the light emitting elements. For example in an exemplary implementation the first light emitting element or the second light emitting element may be controlled based on instructions provided to the corresponding zone of the first light emitting element or the second light emitting element from the controller . Each of the first light emitting element and the second light emitting element may include a single light source such as one LED or it may include multiple light sources i.e. multiple LEDs. In an exemplary implementation the controller can provide separate instructions to each of the individual LEDs within the same zone. For example LEDs may light sequentially blink or different color LEDs may be operated based on instructions from the controller .

In an alternate implementation each of the first light emitting element or the second light emitting element can include multiple zones for example two or more zones each zone can be configured to receive separate operating instructions from the controller . In an exemplary implementation the LEDs may be arranged into groups and each group of LEDs assigned a zone on the first light emitting element or the second light emitting element . For example the first light emitting element may include 36 LED style lights. The exemplary first light emitting element may be divided into four zones each zone associated with 9 LEDs. The first light emitting element can control operation of the LEDs in each of the four zones separately based on the instructions provided by the controller . Such zone control is also possible with the second light emitting element .

In an alternate implementation the first light emitting element or the second light emitting element can include a number of zones corresponding to the number of lights present on the light emitting element where each zone provides operation instructions to its corresponding individual lights as received from the controller . For example an exemplary first light emitting element may include 36 LED style lights and 36 zones corresponding to each of the 36 LEDs. The controller can individually control operation of each of the 36 LEDs based on instructions provided to each of the corresponding 36 zones. The second light emitting element can similarly be configured. Therefore as described herein the first light emitting element can include a plurality of zones or regions each zone or region configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the one or more objects relative to a first portion of the vehicle. Likewise the second light emitting element can include a plurality of zones or regions each zone or region configured to selectively illuminate based on a respective location of the one or more objects relative to a second portion of the vehicle.

It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein with respect to the various figures may be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules i.e. software running on a computing device 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules i.e. hardware within the computing device and or 3 a combination of software and hardware of the computing device. Thus the logical operations discussed herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing device. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

When the logical operations described herein are implemented in software the process may execute on any type of computing architecture or platform. For example the functions of the one or more light emitting elements controller control circuitry and vehicle electronics control unit as described above may be implemented on any type of computing architecture or platform. An exemplary implementation illustrated in provides an example system and computing device such as controller upon which embodiments of the invention may be implemented. The controller may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information among various components of the controller . In its most basic configuration controller typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory. Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. The processing unit may be a standard programmable processor that performs arithmetic and logic operations necessary for operation of the controller .

Controller may have additional features functionality. For example controller may include additional storage such as removable and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Controller may also contain network connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Controller may also have input device s or be capable of being connect with input output devices such as a keyboard mouse touch screen etc. and a display speakers printer etc. The additional devices may be connected to the bus in order to facilitate communication of data among the components of the controller . All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

The processing unit may be configured to execute program code encoded in tangible computer readable media. Computer readable media refers to any media that is capable of providing data that causes the controller i.e. a machine to operate in a particular fashion. Various computer readable media may be utilized to provide instructions to the processing unit for execution. Common forms of computer readable media include for example magnetic media optical media physical media memory chips or cartridges a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. Example computer readable media may include but is not limited to volatile media non volatile media and transmission media. Volatile and non volatile media may be implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data and common forms are discussed in detail below. Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wires and or fiber optic cables as well as acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communication. Example tangible computer readable recording media include but are not limited to an integrated circuit e.g. field programmable gate array or application specific IC a hard disk an optical disk a magneto optical disk a floppy disk a magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state device RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices.

In an example implementation the processing unit may execute program code stored in the system memory . For example the bus may carry data to the system memory from which the processing unit receives and executes instructions. The data received by the system memory may optionally be stored on the removable non removable storage before or after execution by the processing unit .

Controller typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by device and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by controller . Any such computer storage media may be part of controller .

Further comprising the system of are other vehicle systems such as for example a steering control system a vehicle braking system a warning system such as for example the vehicles anti theft security alarm system and the like that are in communication with the controller . In one aspect the warning system can further be comprised of audible visual haptic devices for making the vehicle operator or other passengers or persons aware of the detection of one or more objects relative to a portion of the vehicle. The steering control system can further interact with the lightbar system which includes one or more first light emitting elements for providing indication and or warning light signals to the driver of the vehicle corresponding to detection of one or more objects relative to a first portion of the vehicle and one or more second light emitting elements corresponding to detection of one or more objects relative to a second portion of the vehicle.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination thereof. Thus the methods and apparatuses of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computing device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Returning to optionally or alternatively at once the location or proximity of the object has been detected safety measures on the vehicle may be selectively engaged. For example if the object is determined to be in front of the vehicle and in close proximity the braking system of the vehicle may be applied the engine may be shut down or the transmission disengaged such that the vehicle cannot move forward. Similarly the lights of the vehicle may turn on or flash or a warning noise e.g. horn may be emitted by the vehicle. Similar actions can be taken for objects detected underneath behind beside or at other locations with respect to the vehicle. The actions taken can be progressive based on proximity. For example first actions may be to flash the lights or blow the horn. Then as the vehicle or the object move closer to one another the brakes may be applied or the transmission disengaged. A third level of action could be to shut down the engine of the vehicle and engage the parking brake. At it is determined whether the object has cleared after the safety measures have been performed. If the object is cleared then the process returns to . If it has not cleared then the process returns to where additional safety measures may be engaged.

Returning to optionally or alternatively at once the location or proximity of the object has been detected safety measures on the vehicle may be identified. For example if the object is determined to be in front of the vehicle and in close proximity signals for applying the braking system of the vehicle shutting the engine down disengaging the transmission and the like such that the vehicle cannot move forward can be generated. Similarly signals for turning on and off the lights of the vehicle flashing the lights emitting a warning noise e.g. horn by the vehicle and the like may be generated. Similar signals can be generated for objects detected underneath behind beside or at other locations with respect to the vehicle. The signals can cause actions to be taken in a progressive manner based on proximity. For example first actions may be to flash the lights or blow the horn. Then as the vehicle or the object move closer to one another the brakes may be applied or the transmission disengaged. A third level of action could be to shut down the engine of the vehicle and engage the parking brake. At it is determined whether the object has cleared after the signals for safety measures have been generated. If the object is cleared then the process returns to . If it has not cleared then the process returns to where signals for additional safety measures may be generated.

While the foregoing description and drawings represent the preferred implementation of the present invention it will be understood that various additions modifications combinations and or substitutions may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined in the accompanying claims. In particular it will be clear to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms structures arrangements proportions and with other elements materials and components without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be used with many modifications of structure arrangement proportions materials and components and otherwise used in the practice of the invention which are particularly adapted to specific environments and operative requirements without departing from the principles of the present invention. In addition features described herein may be used singularly or in combination with other features. The presently disclosed implementations are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive the scope of the invention being indicated by the appended claims and not limited to the foregoing description.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the implementations described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular implementations disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims.

