---

title: Image acquisition method, electronic apparatus, electronic device, and storage medium
abstract: The present disclosure provides an image acquisition method, an electronic apparatus, an electronic device, and a storage medium. The method includes: receiving an image function enabling instruction and controlling, according to the image function enabling instruction, a touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface; receiving a touch action on a screen of the image acquisition interface; determining whether image acquisition duration of the touch action on one same area of the screen of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time; and controlling an image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image if the image acquisition duration of the touch action on the screen of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560280&OS=09560280&RS=09560280
owner: TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09560280
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20150521
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT CN2013 082870 filed on Sep. 3 2013 which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201210512999.9 filed on Dec. 4 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to the field of electronic technologies and in particular to an image acquisition method an electronic apparatus an electronic device and a storage medium.

At present with the continuous development of electronic technologies there are more and more electronic devices that can be configured to photograph for example a mobile phone a digital camera and a tablet computer. Using a mobile phone as an example at present most mobile phones are equipped with a touch screen and a photographing button when the mobile phone is in a photographing mode the touch screen may display in real time a preview image for reference to a user and after selecting a target to photograph the user may perform a photographing operation by tapping the photographing button.

However when the user needs to take a selfie by using a rear camera or needs to photograph by raising the mobile phone high above the head top during photographing in accident onlookers car exhibition music concerts or model photographing a problem easily occurs that the user cannot tap or even cannot find the photographing button. Moreover as the size of a smart phone increases continuously a user cannot conveniently tap a photographing button to start a shutter in particular tapping a photographing button becomes harder for a user having small hands or a user that wants to complete a photographing operation with one hand.

At present a technical solution to the foregoing defect is to set a touch screen photographing function in a photographing device of a mobile phone where photographing is performed by tapping a screen after the touch screen photographing function is opened in settings. As shown in a schematic diagram of a photographing device in the existing technology in a set state in a touch screen and a setting button are included. A user may open a setting interface by pressing the setting button so that a touch screen photographing function key and other functional keys are displayed. However in the technical solution the user is required to tap the setting button to select the touch screen photographing function photographing by tapping a screen easily causes an unintended operation and the touch screen photographing function conflicts with other functions of the photographing device for example when the touch screen photographing function key is in a selected state some of the other functional keys for example an autofocus functional key is inoperable.

One objective of the present disclosure is to provide an image acquisition method which can simplify a setting process of touch screen photographing provide a faster touch screen photographing manner improve accuracy of a photographing operation and expand the application scope of touch screen photographing.

receiving an image function enabling instruction and controlling according to the image function enabling instruction a touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface 

determining whether image acquisition duration of the touch action on one same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time and

controlling an image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image if the image acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time.

Another objective of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic apparatus which can simplify a setting process of touch screen photographing provide a faster touch screen photographing manner improve accuracy of a photographing operation and expand the application scope of touch screen photographing.

one or more programs stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors to provide an image acquisition method the one or more programs being classified according to functions and including 

a first receiving unit configured to receive an image function enabling instruction and control according to the image function enabling instruction a touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface 

an image acquisition determining unit configured to determine whether image acquisition duration of the touch action on one same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time and

an image acquisition control unit configured to control an image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image if the image acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of a screen of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time.

Another objective of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device which can simplify a setting process of touch screen photographing provide a faster touch screen photographing manner improve accuracy of a photographing operation and expand the application scope of touch screen photographing.

To solve the above problem the present disclosure provides an electronic device including a touch display apparatus an electronic apparatus and an image sensing apparatus a screen of the touch display apparatus including an action capturing area and an animation playing area 

the action capturing area being configured to acquire a touch action and a leave action and send the touch action and the leave action to the electronic apparatus 

the animation playing area being configured to play according to image acquisition duration of the touch action on one same area of the action capturing area of the screen an animation for prompting an image acquisition time and

a first receiving unit configured to receive an image function enabling instruction and control according to the image function enabling instruction the touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface 

an image acquisition determining unit configured to determine whether image acquisition duration of the touch action on one same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time and

an image acquisition control unit configured to control the image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image if the image acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time.

Another objective of the present disclosure is to provide a storage medium which can simplify a setting process of touch screen photographing provide a faster touch screen photographing manner improve accuracy of a photographing operation and expand the application scope of touch screen photographing.

To solve the above problem the present disclosure provides a storage medium storing instructions that can be executed by a processor the processor providing an image acquisition method by executing the instructions which includes 

receiving an image function enabling instruction and controlling according to the image function enabling instruction a touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface 

determining whether image acquisition duration of the touch action on one same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time and

controlling an image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image if the image acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time.

As compared with the existing technology according to the present disclosure a photographing operation can be implemented by directly long pressing a framing area of a touch screen which requires no mode switching and can simplify a setting process of touch screen photographing and provide a more convenient touch screen photographing manner photographing by long pressing can make view finding more stable which shows more consideration for users having small hands and in particular a female user can perform a photographing operation with one hand and moreover considerations are given to convenience efficiency and stability at the same time and the application scope of touch screen photographing is expanded. In the present disclosure no matter whether a user takes a selfie by using a rear camera or needs to photograph by raising a photographing device high during photographing in accident onlookers car exhibitions or model photographing or photographs by using a large size photographing device with one hand the user can photograph by directly long pressing a screen thereby simplifying a photographing operation process improving accuracy of a photographing operation and expanding the application scope of touch screen photographing.

Referring to the drawings same component numerals represent a same component. The principles of the present disclosure are described by using examples implemented in a proper running environment. The following descriptions are specific embodiments of the present invention based on the examples which should not be regarded as a limitation to other specific embodiments of the present invention that are not described herein in detail.

In the description that follows the present disclosure will be described with reference to steps and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computers unless indicated otherwise. As such it will be understood that such steps and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains it at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures where data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while the present disclosure is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that various of the steps and operation described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

The present disclosure provides an electronic apparatus. is a schematic structural diagram of the electronic apparatus in a preferred implementation manner. The electronic apparatus includes one or more processors a memory and one or more programs stored in the memory and configured to be executed by one or more processors to provide an image acquisition method. The one or more programs are classified according to functions and include a first receiving unit a second receiving unit an action acquisition determining unit an image acquisition determining unit a display unit and an image acquisition control unit .

The first receiving unit is configured to receive an image function enabling instruction and control according to the image function enabling instruction a touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface.

The second receiving unit is configured to receive a touch action on a screen of the image acquisition interface.

That is after the first receiving unit receives the image function enabling instruction and enables an image function of the touch display apparatus the image acquisition interface is entered directly. Any part on the screen of the image acquisition interface can receive a touch action and a leave action. After one same area of the image acquisition interface of the screen receives the touch action by using the second receiving unit that is a long pressing action is performed on the screen a program of touch screen photographing can be entered directly where a user does not need to start a setting functional key to set a touch screen photographing function thereby simplifying a setting process of touch screen photographing.

The action acquisition determining unit is configured to determine whether action acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset action acquisition preparation time where the image acquisition determining unit is executed if the action acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the action acquisition preparation time. The action acquisition preparation time may be set to 0.1 s to 0.3 s according to actual requirements and preferably is 0.2 s. The action acquisition determining unit is an optional unit and is executed to further improve accuracy of a photographing operation so as to further reduce unintended operations.

After the same area of the screen receives the touch action an action acquisition preparing state is entered. The action acquisition preparing state has a preset action acquisition preparation time. The action acquisition preparation time may be preset according to actual photographing requirements to perform a timing operation on the action acquisition preparing state according to the action acquisition preparation time after the same area of the screen receives a touch action where a timing result is action acquisition duration so as to determine that a current touch action is a photographing operation thereby further preventing an unintended operation. When the timing result that is action acquisition duration is less than the action acquisition preparation time that is the touch action on the same area is interrupted within the action acquisition preparation time the action acquisition preparing state is exited and whether a touch action on different areas for example a sliding operation occurs is further determined. If a touch action on different areas occurs a corresponding event is triggered according to the touch action on different areas. If the action acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the action acquisition preparation time the image acquisition determining unit is executed.

The image acquisition determining unit is configured to determine whether image acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time. If the image acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time the image acquisition control unit is executed. The image acquisition preparation time may be set to 0.3 s to 1 s according to actual requirements and preferably is 0.5 s.

The display unit is configured to control the touch display apparatus to display timing prompt information while the image acquisition determining unit is executed. The displaying timing prompt information by the display unit includes playing an animation for prompting an image acquisition time. For example a circular ring countdown animation is displayed. A period for the circular ring to rotate one round is equal to the image acquisition preparation time. If the image acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time a complete countdown animation of circular ring rotation is played. Otherwise the image acquisition duration stops and playing of the countdown animation of circular ring rotation ends. In addition to the circular ring rotation the timing prompt information for prompting an image acquisition time may also be circular disk rotation or other visual feedback timing prompt information that can indicate a time progress.

By playing the timing animation the user can be prompted that the user currently has entered the program of touch screen photographing. If the user does not need to photograph an image in a current framing area the user cancels the press touch on the touch screen so as to terminate current image acquisition operation thereby effectively reducing unintended operations.

If the action acquisition determining unit is executed an image acquisition preparing state is entered after it is determined that the action acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the action acquisition preparation time. If the action acquisition determining unit is not executed the image acquisition preparing state is entered after the second receiving unit receives the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface of the screen. The image acquisition preparing state has a preset image acquisition preparation time. The image acquisition preparation time is preset according to actual photographing requirements. A timing operation is performed on the image acquisition preparing state according to the image acquisition preparation time where a timing result is image acquisition duration and at the same time the user is informed of the timing result by displaying timing information by using the display unit to further determine that a current touch action is a photographing operation thereby effectively preventing an unintended operation. If the touch action on the same area is not interrupted in the image acquisition preparing state that is the timing result in the image acquisition preparing state the image acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time the image acquisition control unit is executed. Otherwise the image acquisition preparing state is exited the second receiving unit may be executed again to receive a touch action .

The image acquisition control unit is configured to control an image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image. The image includes a picture or a video.

A preferred implementation manner of an image acquisition device according to the present disclosure is provided below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present disclosure further provides an electronic device. is a schematic structural diagram of the electronic device in a preferred implementation manner including a touch display apparatus an electronic apparatus and an image sensing apparatus . The touch display apparatus may use a screen in a form of a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED or the like and has a touch sensitive surface. After detecting a touch operation on or near the touch sensitive surface the touch sensitive surface may transmit the touch operation to a processor not shown in the figure of the electronic apparatus so as to determine a type of the touch event. The processor then may provide a corresponding visual output on the screen according to the type of the touch event. The image sensing apparatus may include a sensing element array a gain adjustable signal amplifier an analog digital signal converter a control logic and an input and output interface. The components of the image sensing apparatus may be designed integrally welded in a hybrid manner or designed in a systematic package manner. A principle of a sensing element may be any sensing principle for example capacitor sensing electric field and magnetic field radio frequency optics ultrasonic waves pressure or infrared ray. The sensing element may be configured on a substrate. The substrate may be made of a semiconductor material such as silicon or may be made of glass a polymer or other insulation materials. The sensing element may be a sensing element in a capacitive form a pressure form a temperature difference sensing form an optical form an electric field form an electromagnetic field form an RF form an infrared form a piezoelectric form an ultrasonic wave form or other forms.

The screen of the touch display apparatus includes an action capturing area and an animation playing area .

The action capturing area is configured to acquire a touch action and a leave action and send the touch action and the leave action to the electronic apparatus .

The animation playing area is configured to play according to image acquisition duration of a touch action on one same area of the action capturing area of the screen an animation for prompting an image acquisition time.

In another implementation manner the screen further includes a framing area . The framing area is configured to display an image acquired by the image sensing apparatus of the electronic device. The framing area may overlap with the action capturing area .

The electronic apparatus includes a first receiving unit a second receiving unit an image acquisition determining unit and an image acquisition control unit .

The first receiving unit is configured to receive an image function enabling instruction and control according to the image function enabling instruction the touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface.

The second receiving unit is configured to receive a touch action on the image acquisition interface.

The image acquisition determining unit is configured to determine whether image acquisition duration of a touch action on a same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time. If the image acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time the image acquisition control unit is executed. The image acquisition preparation time may be set to 0.3 s to 1 s according to actual requirements and preferably is 0.5 s.

The image acquisition control unit is configured to control the image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image. The image includes a picture or a video.

In another implementation manner the electronic apparatus further includes an action acquisition determining unit .

Before the image acquisition determining unit determines whether the image acquisition duration is equal to or greater than the image acquisition preparation time the action acquisition determining unit determines whether action acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset action acquisition preparation time. If the action acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the action acquisition preparation time the image acquisition determining unit is executed. The action acquisition preparation time may be set to 0.1 s to 0.3 s according to actual requirements and preferably is 0.2 s.

The present disclosure further provides an image acquisition method. is a flowchart of the image acquisition method in a preferred implementation manner. The image acquisition method in this preferred embodiment includes 

Step S Receive an image function enabling instruction and control according to the image function enabling instruction a touch display apparatus to enter an image acquisition interface.

That is after a first receiving unit receives the image function enabling instruction and enables an image function of the touch display apparatus the image acquisition interface is entered directly. Any part on the screen of the image acquisition interface can receive a touch action and a leave action. After one same area of the image acquisition interface of the screen receives the touch action by using a second receiving unit a program of touch screen photographing can be entered directly where a user does not need to start a setting functional key to set a touch screen photographing function thereby simplifying a setting process of touch screen photographing. It is found from a survey that it is difficult for a user to complete a photographing operation by using one hand of which a major reason is that operating with one hand is not stable and to the hand cannot reach a photographing button. However according to the present disclosure the program of touch screen photographing can be entered directly by receiving a touch action on one same area of the screen. Therefore a faster touch screen photographing manner is provided and the photographing manner by pressing the screen can make framing more stable.

Step S Determine whether action acquisition duration of the touch action on one same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset action acquisition preparation time. If the action acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the action acquisition preparation time step S is performed. The action acquisition preparation time may be set to 0.1 s to 0.3 s according to actual requirements and preferably is 0.2 s.

After the same area of the screen receives the touch action an action acquisition preparing state is entered. The action acquisition preparing state has a preset action acquisition preparation time. The action acquisition preparation time may be preset according to actual photographing requirements to perform a timing operation on the action acquisition preparing state according to the action acquisition preparation time after the same area of the screen receives a touch action where a timing result is action acquisition duration so as to determine that a current touch action is a photographing operation thereby preventing an unintended operation. When the timing result that is action acquisition duration is less than the action acquisition preparation time that is the touch action on the same area is interrupted within the action acquisition preparation time the action acquisition preparing state is exited and step S is performed Further determine whether a touch action on different areas for example a sliding operation occurs. If a touch action on different areas occurs a corresponding event is triggered according to the touch action on different areas. If the action acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the action acquisition preparation time step S is performed.

Step S is an optional step. Step S is performed to further improve accuracy of the photographing operation to further reduce unintended operations. If step S is performed step S is performed after step S that is a corresponding image is acquired after touch screen determining is executed twice. If step S is not performed step S is performed after step S that is the image sensing apparatus is controlled to acquire a corresponding image after touch screen determining is executed once.

Step S Control a touch display apparatus to display timing prompt information and determine whether image acquisition duration of the touch action on the same area of the image acquisition interface is greater than or equal to a preset image acquisition preparation time. If the image acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time step S is performed. The image acquisition preparation time may be set to 0.3 s to 1 s according to actual requirements and preferably is 0.5 s.

The timing prompt information may be picture text audio or animation information. The step of displaying timing prompt information includes playing an animation for prompting an image acquisition time. For example a circular ring countdown animation is displayed. A period for the circular ring to rotate one round is equal to the image acquisition preparation time. If the image acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time a complete countdown animation of circular ring rotation is played. Otherwise the image acquisition duration stops and playing of the countdown animation of circular ring rotation ends. In addition to the circular ring rotation the timing prompt information for prompting an image acquisition time may also be circular disk rotation or other visual feedback timing prompt information that can indicate a time progress.

By playing the timing animation a user can be prompted that the user currently has entered the program of touch screen photographing. If the user does not need to photograph an image in a current framing area the user cancels the press touch on the touch screen so as to terminate current image acquisition operation thereby effectively reducing unintended operations.

If step S is performed an image acquisition preparing state is entered after it is determined that the action acquisition duration is greater than or equal to the action acquisition preparation time and before a corresponding image is acquired. If step S is not performed the image acquisition preparing state is entered after the same area of the image acquisition interface of the screen receives the touch action. The image acquisition preparing state has a preset image acquisition preparation time. The image acquisition preparation time is preset according to actual photographing requirements. A timing operation is performed on the image acquisition preparing state according to the image acquisition preparation time where a timing result is image acquisition duration and at the same time the user is informed of the timing result by displaying timing information to further determine that a current touch action is a photographing operation thereby effectively preventing an unintended operation. If the touch action on the same area is not interrupted in the image acquisition preparing state that is the timing result in the image acquisition preparing state is greater than or equal to the image acquisition preparation time step S is performed. Otherwise the image acquisition preparing state is exited step S is performed again to receive a touch action .

Step S Control an image sensing apparatus to acquire a corresponding image. The image includes a picture or a video.

According to the foregoing method it is not required to perform optional setting on touch screen photographing a setting process of touch screen photographing is simplified a faster touch screen photographing manner is provided accuracy of a photographing operation is improved and the application scope of touch screen photographing is expanded.

Next a preferred embodiment of the foregoing technical solution is provided below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Referring to and is a schematic diagram of displaying timing prompt information of the present disclosure in this embodiment and is a flowchart of an image acquisition method of the present disclosure in this embodiment. In after an image function enabling instruction is received and an image function is enabled an image acquisition interface is entered directly. Touch screen photographing may be implemented by long pressing a framing area where no mode switching is not required. After the framing area is long pressed an animation playing area displays timing prompt information for example a circular ring countdown is used and a photographing operation is performed after the circular ring rotates one round where the user may cancel this photographing operation by releasing the hand before the circular ring finishes one round.

In step S Wait for a screen press input from a user. Step S When the user presses a touch screen the screen receives the press input and enters a long pressing photographing state. Step S Wait within a preset time for example 200 ms and if a sliding event is triggered exit the long pressing photographing state and enter a screen sliding logic or if an up event is triggered exit the long pressing photographing state end a current photographing operation and go back to step S to continue waiting. Step S If no event is triggered within the preset time play an animation for example a long pressing animation in a circular ring countdown form . Step S If an up event is triggered in the playing process exit the long pressing photographing state end the current photographing operation and go back to step S to continue waiting. Step S After playing of the animation is completed cancel the animation and perform the photographing operation.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art should understand that all or some of the processes in the method according to the embodiments may be implemented by a computer program instructing relevant hardware. The program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium. When the program is executed the processes of the method in the embodiments are performed. The storage medium may be a magnetic disk an optical disc a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM or the like.

According to the image acquisition method the electronic apparatus the electronic device and the storage medium of the present disclosure an image acquisition operation is implemented by receiving a touch action on a framing area of a touch screen which requires no mode switching and can simplify a setting process of touch screen photographing and provide a faster touch screen photographing manner. In the present disclosure no matter whether a user takes a selfie by using a rear camera or needs to photograph by raising a photographing device high during photographing in accident onlookers car exhibitions or model photographing or photographs by using a large size photographing device with one hand the user can photograph by directly long pressing a screen thereby simplifying a photographing operation process improving accuracy of a photographing operation and expanding the application scope of touch screen photographing.

The terms such as component module system and interface used in this application generally are intended to refer to computer related entities hardware a combination of hardware and software software and software in execution. For example a component may be but not limited to a progress running in a processor a processor an object an executable application an executed thread a program and or a computer. According to the drawings an application running on a controller and the controller both may be components. One or more components may exist in an executed progress and or thread and the component may also be located in one computer and or be distributed between two or among more computers.

Moreover the claimed subject may be implemented by using standard programming and or an engineering technology to produce software firmware hardware or any other combination thereof to control a computer to implement a method an apparatus or an article of manufacture of the disclosed subject. The term article of manufacture used in the specification is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or medium. Certainly a person skilled in the art may be aware that modifications may be performed on the configuration without departing from the scope and spirit of the subject required to be protected.

Although not required the embodiments are described in a general background that computer readable instructions are executed by one or more electronic devices. The computer readable instructions may be distributed by means of a computer readable medium discussed below . The computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects application programming interfaces API data structures for executing specific tasks or implementing specific abstract data types. Particularly the functions of the computer readable instructions may be randomly combined or distributed in various environments.

In another embodiment the electronic device may include additional features and or functions. For example the device may further include an additional storage apparatus which is for example removable and or non removable which includes but is not limited to a magnetic storage apparatus an optical storage apparatus and the like. The additional storage apparatus is shown as a storage apparatus in . In an embodiment the computer readable instructions for implementing one or more embodiments in the specification may be stored in the storage apparatus . The storage apparatus may further store other computer readable instructions for implementing an operating system an application program and the like. The computer readable instructions may be loaded into the memory and executed by for example the processing unit .

The term computer readable medium used in the specification includes a computer storage medium. The computer storage medium includes volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented by using any method or technology and configured to store computer readable instructions data or other information. The memory and the storage apparatus are instances of the computer storage medium. The computer storage medium includes but is not limited to a RAM a ROM an EEPROM a flash memory or other storage technologies a CD ROM a digital universal disk DVD or other optical storage apparatuses a cassette a magnetic tape a magnetic disk storage apparatus or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can store required information and can be accessed by the electronic device . Any one of the computer storage media may be a part of the electronic device .

The electronic device may further include a communication connection that enables communication between the electronic device and other devices. The communication connection may include but is not limited to a modem a network interface card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a universal serial bus USB connection or other interfaces for connecting the electronic device to other electronic devices. The communication connection may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. The communication connection may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable medium may include a communications medium. The communications medium particularly includes computer readable instructions or other data in modulated data signals such as carriers or other transmission mechanisms and includes any information delivery medium. The term modulated data signals may include such signals one or more features of the signals is set or changed by encoding information into the signals.

The electronic device may include an input device such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device an infrared camera a video input device and or any other input device. The device may also include an output device such as one or more displays a loudspeaker a printer and or any other output device. The input device and the output device may be connected to the electronic device via wired connection wireless connection or any combination of the two. In an embodiment an input device or an output device from another electronic device may be used as the input device or the output device of the electronic device .

The components of the electronic device may be connected via various interconnects for example a bus . The interconnects may include a peripheral component interconnect PCI for example a fast PCI a USB a fire wire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure or the like. In another embodiment the components of the electronic device may be interconnected through a network. For example the memory may include a plurality of physical memory units that are located at different physical locations and interconnected through a network.

Persons skilled in the art know that the storage device for storing computer readable instructions may be distributed in different networks. For example an electronic device which can be accessed through a network may store computer readable instructions for implementing one or more embodiments provided in the present disclosure. The electronic device may access the electronic device and download some or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively the electronic device may download a plurality of computer readable instructions as required or some instructions may be executed at the electronic device and some instructions may be executed at the electronic device .

The specification provides various operations in the embodiments. In an embodiment the one or more operations may constitute one or more computer readable instructions stored in a computer readable medium which when executed by an electronic device cause a computer device to execute the operation. The order for describing some or all operations should not be interpreted as implying an order of these operations. Persons skilled in the art may understand that there is an alternative order having the advantages of the specification. Moreover it should be understood that not all operations must be performed in each embodiment provided in the specification.

Moreover the word preferred used in the specification is intended to refer to an instance an example or an illustration. Any aspect or design described as preferred in the specification is not necessarily be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather the word preferred is used to put forward a concept in a specific manner. For example the term or used in this application is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context X uses A or B refers to any of natural inclusive permutations. That is if X uses A X uses B or X uses both A and B X uses A or B is satisfied in any one or the foregoing examples.

Moreover although the present disclosure is shown and described by using one or more implementation manners persons skilled in the art may conceive of equivalent variants and modifications based on reading and understanding of the specification and the accompanying drawings. The present disclosure includes all such variations and modifications which is only limited by the scope of the appended claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the foregoing components such as elements and resources terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond to any component unless indicated otherwise performing specified functions of the components for example the components are equivalent in functions even though structures of the functions are not equivalent to the disclosed structures of functions in the exemplary implementation manners in the present disclosure shown in the specification. Besides although the specific feature of the present disclosure has been disclosed in only one of several implementation manners this feature can be combined with one or more other features of other implementation manners that are desirable for and advantageous to a given or specific application. Moreover for the terms include have contain or variations thereof being used in specific implementation manners or claims the terms are intended to be inclusive in a similar manner to that of the term comprise .

To sum up although the present disclosure has been disclosed above through the preferred embodiments the preferred embodiments are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Persons skilled in the art may make variations and modifications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the protection scope of the present disclosure should be subject to the appended claims.

