---

title: Reducing time for call failure indication
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for indicating a bearer status with a device are provided. A call setup message can be received from an application server indicating a request to initiate a call with a target device. A dedicated bearer status of a dedicated bearer with the target device can be verified, and a message can be sent to the application server indicating the dedicated bearer status with the target device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602981&OS=09602981&RS=09602981
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09602981
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150106
---
The present application for patent is a continuation of application Ser. No. 14 267 615 entitled REDUCING TIME FOR CALL FAILURE INDICATION filed May 1 2014 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 12 751 624 entitled REDUCING TIME FOR CALL FAILURE INDICATION filed Mar. 31 2010 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 167 697 entitled REDUCING TIME FOR CALL FAILURE INDICATION WHERE TARGET DEVICE IS UNREACHABLE BUT STILL REGISTERED WITH THE ALL SERVER filed Apr. 8 2009 all of which are assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects of the disclosure relate to measuring the performance of call completion in wireless communications systems.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless devices have varying data processing and computing capability and can accordingly send and receive software programs in addition to voice across the wireless network.

One wireless telecommunication service provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push to talk over cellular PTT PoC push to talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group so that the wireless device can speak on the floor and once the button is released the floor is released and the wireless device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

In a PTT environment when the PTT server sends an ANNOUNCE message to a target client the packet data serving node PDSN receives the ANNOUNCE message and needs to route that message to the target client s wireless communication device. In order to route the ANNOUNCE message to the appropriate radio access network RAN the PDSN must have an established A10 connection with the RAN. It is possible that the PDSN receives the ANNOUNCE message for a target device without having an established A10 connection with the RAN. This can occur because due to an internal problem at either the RAN or PDSN an A10 or point to point protocol PPP connection between the RAN and PDSN is not present for the target client device. In current systems the PDSN will drop the announce message the PTT server will time out and will keep resending the ANNOUNCE message according to a preset reliability mechanism. After the reliability mechanism has completed the server will end the call and send a STATUS failure message to the operator indicating that the target device cannot be reached. There may be several issues associated with this design.

First the current system may waste server resources to retry the ANNOUNCE message. Second it may waste over the air bandwidth resources for the originating wireless communication device because the server does not send the STATUS failure before it exhausts the reliability mechanism. Third in current systems one cannot infer whether the message reached the target RAN or not from the cause code of the STATUS failure or from the server log. Fourth during field testing activity when the only logs available are client logs it is very important to know the exact failure code for the failed call attempt. A generic failed reason of target unreachable does not help identify the root cause of the problem.

Similar issues may occur in other wireless communications systems that utilize multiple bearers for communications between a device and network having an evolved packet core EPC . In such systems an application server providing voice services can send a call setup message to a serving node in the EPC to establish a call from an originating device to a target device. Though the EPC may have a default bearer to the target device it may not have a bearer capable of providing a quality of service QoS for the voice services. Thus the EPC may attempt to setup the call over a bearer that does not meet QoS requirements for the call. In other cases the EPC may drop the call setup message due to lack of a dedicated bearer which may cause the application server to timeout and repeatedly resend the call setup request. Moreover in some examples such as in voice over long term evolution VoLTE upon receiving a call setup failure the originating wireless communication device may fall back to a circuit switch voice call technology e.g. code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM etc. .

As such it would be beneficial to have techniques that increase the speed and minimize the resources involved with communicating a call failure message to an originating wireless communications device.

In an embodiment a network communications entity may receive from an originator wireless communications device a request to initiate a call with a target wireless communications device. The network entity may send a call announce message that corresponds to the request to a network node. The network entity may receive from the network node an internet control message protocol ICMP message indicative of the node lacking one of a plurality of connections e.g. one of a plurality of bearers to a radio access network that corresponds to the target. The network entity may send a status failure message to the originator indicative of the call failing. The network communications entity may include a group communication server a Push To Talk PTT server and or a call server.

According to an example a method for indicating a bearer status with a device is provided. The method includes receiving a call setup message from an application server indicating a request to initiate a call with a target device verifying a dedicated bearer status of a dedicated bearer with the target device and sending a message to the application server indicating the dedicated bearer status with the target device.

In another example an apparatus for indicating a bearer status with a device is provided. The apparatus includes a call setup message receiving component configured to receive a call setup message from an application server indicating a request to initiate a call with a target device a bearer status verifying component configured to verify a dedicated bearer status of a dedicated bearer with the target device and a call setup status indicating component configured to send a message to the application server indicating the dedicated bearer status with the target device.

In a further example an apparatus for indicating a bearer status with a device is provided. The apparatus includes means for receiving a call setup message from an application server indicating a request to initiate a call with a target device means for verifying a dedicated bearer status of a dedicated bearer with the target device and means for sending a message to the application server indicating the dedicated bearer status with the target device.

In yet another example a computer readable medium for indicating a bearer status with a device is provided. The computer readable medium includes code for receiving a call setup message from an application server indicating a request to initiate a call with a target device code for verifying a dedicated bearer status of a dedicated bearer with the target device and code for sending a message to the application server indicating the dedicated bearer status with the target device.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device user equipment UE and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The terms group communication or PTT call mean a point to point or point to multipoint half duplex communication either in a true or virtual half duplex communication channel.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone notifies at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which may be present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A data store shown here as file management server is also present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein

In overview the system includes at least one wireless communication device such as mobile telephone that is a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in group communications across a wireless communication network . The wireless communication device can also be configured to selectively send group directed media to other members of the communication group such as voice or other data. At least one group communication computer device may be configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The group communication computer device may be further configured to selectively receive group directed media from a sending wireless communication device such as mobile telephone of a communication group and send the group directed media to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device. The system can further include a data store in communication with the group communication server s for access and storage purposes.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the group communication computer device at the time of requesting the group directed media to be sent e.g. send a target list and thus the group communication device may send or store the group directed media to the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending group directed media the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the group communication computer device and the group communication computer device can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device .

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a group communication interface that can open the group communication channel from the wireless device. The group communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The group communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the Group Media Client . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client preferably acts as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the group communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The Group Media Client is a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The Group Media Client provides access to group media services through an external interface in one embodiment being a separate API such as a Group Media Aware API. The Group Media Aware UI is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The Group Media Aware UI responds to user requests for group directed media services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications . The Group Media Client services the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request. The user can also have setting on the Group Media Client that specify how to handle an incoming notification that indicates there is a file to be downloaded from the file management server data store . For example the Group Media Client can elect to have the file download commence immediately or to allow the target user to be prompted to determine whether to download the file.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary mobile communication device and in particular the user interface for the device. The device typically includes a display that may comprise an LCD or OLED display. In some embodiments the display may include touch screen capability. The device may include a keypad that may be a standard phone keypad or in other embodiments a QWERTY keypad. The device may also include navigation buttons that may further comprise up down left and right keys for navigating through the display . The navigation keys may further comprise a selection or OK key to indicate the user s selection or acknowledgment of a particular function. The device may also include soft keys that are programmable and used to select the function as indicated in an area of display near the soft key.

Referring to in one embodiment the device may illuminate one or more buttons from keypad navigation buttons or OK key . The button s may illuminate steady in a particular color or may flash on off or in any other manner as configured in the device or by the user to illustrate a given functionality.

The process may continue with receiving from the network node an internet control message protocol ICMP message indicative of the node lacking a connection to a radio access network that corresponds to the target device as shown at step . Various PDSNs currently support ICMP messages such as the PDSN manufactured by UTSTARCOM serving gateways SGW packet data network gateways PGW etc. in evolved packet cores and or similar packet core nodes. In an embodiment the message indicative of the node lacking a connection comprises a message indicative of the node lacking an A10 connection. The ICMP message can be one from a set of an ICMP for Internet Protocol version 4 ICMPv4 message and an ICMP for Internet Protocol version 6 ICMPv6 message. In an embodiment the ICMP message further comprises an indication that the network node could not determine an internet protocol IP address for the target. In an embodiment the PDSN has been modified from its off the shelf form to return a meaningful error code such as no PPP connection exists for the target. 

The process may continue with sending a status failure message to the target device indicative of the call failing as shown at step . The status failure message can be sent on a control channel. In an embodiment the status failure message will indicate the one or more reasons why the call failed such as an indication of a no PPP connection existing for the target. Errors are typically observed in situations where a PDSN has recently restarted such as after a software crash or the target wireless device has lost power. These may lead to situations where the server does not know that IP connectivity via the PDSN has been lost for the target but the PDSN is aware of this.

After the specified timeout period has elapsed which here for example may be 740 ms the server sends a second ANNOUNCE message to the second PDSN . As each timeout period elapses the group communications server sends another ANNOUNCE message until the present total number of retries of four for a total of five including the initial ANNOUNCE message is reached. Upon the final ANNOUNCE message timing out the group communications server sends the originator a STATUS Failure message which takes a time of t2 to pass from the server to the originator .

This technique may takes a period of time equal to the sum of t1 t2 and for example 3200 ms 740 ms 5 to operate. Even if t1 and t2 are instantaneous the sum of the two is typically somewhat less than 150 ms that is still over three seconds when a push to talk environment typically deal in times a fraction of that length.

This technique may take a period of time equal to the sum of t1 t2 and for example approximately 30 ms to operate. Compared to the sum of t1 t2 and 3200 ms required by the prior art technique of this is a savings of over 3 seconds very significant in a low latency environment such as a push to talk system.

The group communications server may include a network interface that may be wired and or wireless for communicating over the server side LAN. A processor may be connected to the network interface a user interface and memory . The processor may include one or more microprocessors microcontrollers and or digital signal processors that provide processing functions as well as other calculation and control functionality. The processor accesses memory for reading writing data and or software instructions for executing programmed functionality. The memory may be on board the processor e.g. within the same IC package and or the memory may be external memory to the processor and functionally coupled over a data bus.

A number of software modules and or data tables may reside in memory and be utilized by the processor for managing PTT functionality including functionality describe above. As illustrated here within memory the group communications server may further include or otherwise provide a group communication management and interface module . While the software module is illustrated in the example as being contained in memory it should be recognized that in certain implementations such procedures may be provided for or otherwise operatively arranged using other or additional mechanisms. For example all or part of software module may be provided in firmware. Additionally while in the software module is shown as a single distinct entity for ease of description it should be understood that it may include a plurality of modules that are not illustrated or otherwise be further partitioned into a differing groups of procedures.

In addition the concepts described above can be applicable to wireless networks capable of communicating using multiple bearers established for one or more wireless telecommunication devices referred to herein as UE . For example some wireless networks establish a default bearer for communicating with a UE and then can establish one or more additional bearers for different types of communications. For example the additional bearers may be established between the UE and the wireless network using the default bearer to communicate configuration information for the additional bearer s . In addition for example the additional bearer s may be associated with a guaranteed bit rate GBR to provide a quality of service QoS for certain types of data at the UE such as voice or other real time data. In one example third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE systems can provide a voice over LTE VoLTE configuration where a UE communicates with an LTE network over a default bearer and one or more dedicated bearers configured to provide a GBR that allows for providing reliable voice call services at the UE.

In aspects of an example apparatus and method are depicted with reference to one or more components and one or more methods that may perform the actions or functions described herein. Although the operations described below in are presented in a particular order and or as being performed by an example module it should be understood that the ordering of the actions and the modules performing the actions may be varied depending on the implementation. Moreover it should be understood that the following actions or functions may be performed by a specially programmed processor a processor executing specially programmed software or computer readable media or by any other combination of a hardware module and or a software module capable of performing the described actions or functions.

Moreover UEs and can communicate with network node or respective network nodes over at least respective default bearers between the network node and the UEs and e.g. via one or more RAN components such as an eNB. For example the default bearers can be established by the network node or other network devices e.g. an MME and may have associated radio bearers in the RAN between eNBs and UEs and that correspond to the default bearers . UEs and may also communicate with network node or respective network nodes over one or more respective dedicated bearers between the network node and the RAN as well. As described dedicated bearers can be established with network node or other components of the wireless network or related packet core over respective default bearers and can provide a GBR to allow a QoS for one or more services such as VoLTE.

System also includes an application server that the UEs and can access via the network node and or one or more additional nodes . In this regard for example network node can be a node in a packet core e.g. an evolved packet core EPC as described further herein in an LTE environment that provides packet based access to the application server . Moreover network node can also communicate with UEs and over one or more RANs as described to act as packet gateway in providing the UEs and with packet based access to the application server . Application server can facilitate providing VoLTE or other services between various devices in the wireless network such as UEs and or . Additionally for example network node can be similar to a PDSN e.g. PDSN and or application server can be similar to a group communication server e.g. group communications server as described herein providing similar functions in addition or alternatively to those described below.

In this regard network node and application server can also include a network interface processor user interface and memory as shown and described with respect to group communication server in for performing aspects described of the network node and application server . For example processor can execute functions described below for one or more components of network node e.g. call setup message receiving component bearer status verifying component call setup status indicating component etc. one or more components of application server e.g. call request receiving component call setup messaging component call setup component etc. Moreover in an example memory can store instructions for executing the various components and or for assisting in carrying out functions of these components as described herein.

Method further includes at Block sending a call setup message that corresponds to the request to a network node in a packet core related to the target device. Application server includes a call setup messaging component for generating and sending the call setup message. This can be similar to the ANNOUNCE message described above. In addition call setup messaging component can determine the network node to which to send the message e.g. network node based at least in part on identifying the network node as related to the target node. For example the call setup request may include an identifier of the network node or an associated network address location or type from which the application server can identify the network node. In another example application server can look up the network node based at least in part on network node information received for the target device e.g. when the target device is registered on the wireless network and or is registered with application server such to receive VoLTE services etc. . In yet another example application server can be configured to communicate with one network node to access the packet core and the network node can appropriately route the call setup message if necessary. In addition it is to be appreciated that UE can request to initiate a call with a plurality of target UEs e.g. as indicated in the request and thus call setup messaging component can send call setup messages for each target UE in one example. Aspects of receiving the call setup message and providing call status information are described in which is described in further detail below in conjunction with .

Method also includes at Block verifying a dedicated bearer status with the target device. Network node includes a bearer status verifying component for verifying the dedicated bearer status with the target device e.g. UE . Thus for example bearer status verifying component can verify a status of dedicated bearer for UE with the RAN regardless of a status of default bearer for the UE with the RAN. In this regard the default bearer may be established between network node or another component of the network and the RAN for communicating with UE and can actively facilitate communications between the UE and the network while the dedicated bearer over which data related to the application server e.g. VoLTE data is communicated may not be established or may not be active with the UE . Thus the UE can be connected to the network via the default bearer but may not be able to provide a QoS for the application server services due to not having the established dedicated bearer that provides a GBR to achieve the QoS. In addition in an example network node may have other dedicated bearers established with the RAN for UE but the other dedicated bearers may not have an associated GBR to achieve the QoS desired for application server services. In this example verifying the dedicated bearer status can include verifying the status for one or more dedicated bearers able to provide the QoS for the application server services. For example verifying the status of the bearer can include determining whether an address for the bearer can be determined e.g. an internet protocol IP address received as part of establishing the bearer at the network node .

Method further includes at Block sending a message to the application server indicating the dedicated bearer status with the target device. Network node includes a call setup status indicating component for indicating the dedicated bearer status of the target device. In this regard where the dedicated bearer is not established has failed is not providing a related GBR etc. for example call setup status indicating component can send a status of the dedicated bearer to the application server indicating that the bearer is not established has failed is not providing the GBR is in a certain state and or the like. In an example the message indicating that the dedicated bearer is not established can be an ICMP Error Message as described above. In addition for example network node can refrain from forwarding the call setup message e.g. to UE a network node thereof a RAN component communicating therewith etc. based at least in part on determining the dedicated bearer is not established or has otherwise failed. Further blocks of method describe receiving and further processing the message indicating the dedicated bearer status.

For example method further includes at Block receiving a message indicating the network node lacks a dedicated bearer to the radio access network that corresponds to the target device. Call setup messaging component can receive the message sent from the network node as described above and can determine that the message indicates the lack of dedicated bearer e.g. based on a type of message such as an ICMP Error Message an error code or result value specified in the message and or the like . Method additionally includes at Block sending based on the received message a status failure message indicating failure of initiating the call with the target device. Thus where the message from network node indicates that the network node lacks a dedicated bearer to the radio access network that corresponds to UE a call setup component included in the application server can respond to the call request from UE by indicating a failure to initiate the call based on the lack of dedicated bearer for the UE . Thus for example since the UE does not have the appropriate bearer to provide QoS for setting up a call for application server call setup component fails the call setup at the UE . This can occur as described even though UE may have an associated default bearer with the network node for communicating best efforts or non GBR data therewith. Moreover in a specific example call setup component can send the failure message to UE over a control channel such as physical downlink control channel PDCCH in LTE by traversing network node the RAN of UE etc. to communicate the message over the control channel.

UE can transmit a CALL request to application server via RAN and packet core as described. The CALL request can indicate a target device with which to setup the call as described. Application server can receive the request and can generate an ANNOUNCE message for communicating to the packet core e.g. to SGW which may correspond to network node . SGW can detect that dedicated bearers for the target device are not up at which can be based on receiving the ANNOUNCE message . Accordingly SGW can refrain from forwarding the ANNOUNCE message e.g. to the target device via RAN or a different RAN and can instead transmit an ICMP Error Message to the application server as described. The ICMP Error Message in one example can indicate that the bearer for the target device at RAN is not up or is otherwise not established. Based on receiving the ICMP Error Message application server can transmit a Status Failure for the CALL Request to UE . As described in one example the Status Failure may be transmitted over a control channel such as a PDCCH between eNB and UE .

By way of example an element or any portion of an element or any combination of elements may be implemented with a processing system that includes one or more processors. Examples of processors include microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable logic devices PLDs state machines gated logic discrete hardware circuits and other suitable hardware configured to perform the various functionality described throughout this disclosure. One or more processors in the processing system may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions instruction sets code code segments program code programs subprograms software modules applications software applications software packages routines subroutines objects executables threads of execution procedures functions etc. whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise.

Accordingly in one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or encoded as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer storage media. Storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD and floppy disk where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The E UTRAN includes the evolved Node B eNB and other eNBs . The eNB provides user and control planes protocol terminations toward the UE . The eNB may be connected to the other eNBs via a backhaul e.g. an X2 interface . The eNB may also be referred to as a base station a base transceiver station a radio base station a radio transceiver a transceiver function a basic service set BSS an extended service set ESS or some other suitable terminology. The eNB provides an access point to the EPC for a UE . Examples of UEs include a cellular phone a smart phone a session initiation protocol SIP phone a laptop a personal digital assistant PDA a satellite radio a global positioning system a multimedia device a video device a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a camera a game console or any other similar functioning device. The UE may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a user agent a mobile client a client or some other suitable terminology.

The eNB is connected by an S1 interface to the EPC . The EPC includes a Mobility Management Entity MME other MMEs a Serving Gateway and a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway . The MME is the control node that processes the signaling between the UE and the EPC . Generally the MME provides bearer and connection management. All user IP packets are transferred through the Serving Gateway which itself is connected to the PDN Gateway . The PDN Gateway provides UE IP address allocation as well as other functions. The PDN Gateway is connected to the Operator s IP Services . The Operator s IP Services may include the Internet the Intranet an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and a PS Streaming Service PSS .

UE can also include a UE or as described in connection with above and or other devices described herein. In addition RAN can include E UTRAN and packet core can include EPC . In addition in this regard eNB can include eNB MME or other MMEs can include MME SGW can include SGW PGW can include PGW etc. Thus one or more of the nodes of the EPC can include the network node as described including the various described components to facilitate providing a bearer status to an application server. HSS can include HSS . In addition operator s IP services may include the application server including the various components that facilitate call setup e.g. using VoLTE as described herein.

The macro eNBs are each assigned to a respective cell and are configured to provide an access point to the EPC for all the UEs in the cells through one or more radio bearers established between the eNBs and UEs and network bearers established between the eNBs and EPC . There is no centralized controller depicted in this example of an access network but a centralized controller may be used in alternative configurations. The eNBs are responsible for all radio related functions including radio bearer control admission control mobility control scheduling security and connectivity to the serving gateway . Moreover for example UEs can include UE or that can request call setup between one another and or with additional UEs and eNBs can include eNB other eNBs etc.

The modulation and multiple access scheme employed by the access network may vary depending on the particular telecommunications standard being deployed. In LTE applications OFDM is used on the downlink DL and SC FDMA is used on the uplink UL to support both frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD . As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate from the detailed description to follow the various concepts presented herein are well suited for LTE applications. However these concepts may be readily extended to other telecommunication standards employing other modulation and multiple access techniques. By way of example these concepts may be extended to Evolution Data Optimized EV DO or Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB . EV DO and UMB are air interface standards promulgated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 as part of the CDMA2000 family of standards and employs CDMA to provide broadband Internet access to mobile stations. These concepts may also be extended to Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA employing Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA such as TD SCDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM employing TDMA and Evolved UTRA E UTRA IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 and Flash OFDM employing OFDMA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from the 3GPP organization. CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from the 3GPP2 organization. The actual wireless communication standard and the multiple access technology employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

The eNBs may have multiple antennas supporting MIMO technology. The use of MIMO technology enables the eNBs to exploit the spatial domain to support spatial multiplexing beamforming and transmit diversity. Spatial multiplexing may be used to transmit different streams of data simultaneously on the same frequency. The data streams may be transmitted to a single UE to increase the data rate or to multiple UEs to increase overall system capacity. This is achieved by spatially pre coding each data stream i.e. applying a scaling of amplitude and phase and then transmitting each spatially pre coded stream through multiple transmit antennas on the DL. The spatially pre coded data streams arrive at the UE s with different spatial signatures which enables each of the UE s to recover the one or more data streams destined for that UE . On the UL each UE transmits a spatially pre coded data stream which enables the eNB to identify the source of each spatially pre coded data stream.

Spatial multiplexing is generally used when channel conditions are good. When channel conditions are less favorable beamforming may be used to focus the transmission energy in one or more directions. This may be achieved by spatially pre coding the data for transmission through multiple antennas. To achieve good coverage at the edges of the cell a single stream beamforming transmission may be used in combination with transmit diversity.

In the detailed description that follows various aspects of an access network will be described with reference to a MIMO system supporting OFDM on the DL. OFDM is a spread spectrum technique that modulates data over a number of subcarriers within an OFDM symbol. The subcarriers are spaced apart at precise frequencies. The spacing provides orthogonality that enables a receiver to recover the data from the subcarriers. In the time domain a guard interval e.g. cyclic prefix may be added to each OFDM symbol to combat inter OFDM symbol interference. The UL may use SC FDMA in the form of a DFT spread OFDM signal to compensate for high peak to average power ratio PAPR .

A UE may be assigned resource blocks in the control section to transmit control information to an eNB. The UE may also be assigned resource blocks in the data section to transmit data to the eNB. The UE may transmit control information in a physical UL control channel PUCCH on the assigned resource blocks in the control section. The UE may transmit only data or both data and control information in a physical UL shared channel PUSCH on the assigned resource blocks in the data section. A UL transmission may span both slots of a sub frame and may hop across frequency.

A set of resource blocks may be used to perform initial system access and achieve UL synchronization in a physical random access channel PRACH . The PRACH carries a random sequence and cannot carry any UL data signaling. Each random access preamble occupies a bandwidth corresponding to six consecutive resource blocks. The starting frequency is specified by the network. That is the transmission of the random access preamble is restricted to certain time and frequency resources. There is no frequency hopping for the PRACH. The PRACH attempt is carried in a single sub frame 1 ms or in a sequence of few contiguous sub frames and a UE can make only a single PRACH attempt per frame 10 ms .

In the user plane the L2 layer includes a media access control MAC sublayer a radio link control RLC sublayer and a packet data convergence protocol PDCP sublayer which are terminated at the eNB on the network side. Although not shown the UE may have several upper layers above the L2 layer including a network layer e.g. IP layer that is terminated at the PDN gateway on the network side and an application layer that is terminated at the other end of the connection e.g. far end UE server etc. .

The PDCP sublayer provides multiplexing between different radio bearers and logical channels. The PDCP sublayer also provides header compression for upper layer data packets to reduce radio transmission overhead security by ciphering the data packets and handover support for UEs between eNBs. The RLC sublayer provides segmentation and reassembly of upper layer data packets retransmission of lost data packets and reordering of data packets to compensate for out of order reception due to hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ . The MAC sublayer provides multiplexing between logical and transport channels. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for allocating the various radio resources e.g. resource blocks in one cell among the UEs. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for HARQ operations.

In the control plane the radio protocol architecture for the UE and eNB is substantially the same for the physical layer and the L2 layer with the exception that there is no header compression function for the control plane. The control plane also includes a radio resource control RRC sublayer in Layer 3 L3 layer . The RRC sublayer is responsible for obtaining radio resources i.e. radio bearers and for configuring the lower layers using RRC signaling between the eNB and the UE.

The transmit TX processor implements various signal processing functions for the L1 layer i.e. physical layer . The signal processing functions includes coding and interleaving to facilitate forward error correction FEC at the UE and mapping to signal constellations based on various modulation schemes e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM . The coded and modulated symbols are then split into parallel streams. Each stream is then mapped to an OFDM subcarrier multiplexed with a reference signal e.g. pilot in the time and or frequency domain and then combined together using an Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IFFT to produce a physical channel carrying a time domain OFDM symbol stream. The OFDM stream is spatially pre coded to produce multiple spatial streams. Channel estimates from a channel estimator may be used to determine the coding and modulation scheme as well as for spatial processing. The channel estimate may be derived from a reference signal and or channel condition feedback transmitted by the UE . Each spatial stream is then provided to a different antenna via a separate transmitter TX. Each transmitter TX modulates an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

At the UE each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to the receive RX processor . The RX processor implements various signal processing functions of the L1 layer. The RX processor performs spatial processing on the information to recover any spatial streams destined for the UE . If multiple spatial streams are destined for the UE they may be combined by the RX processor into a single OFDM symbol stream. The RX processor then converts the OFDM symbol stream from the time domain to the frequency domain using a Fast Fourier Transform FFT . The frequency domain signal comprises a separate OFDM symbol stream for each subcarrier of the OFDM signal. The symbols on each subcarrier and the reference signal is recovered and demodulated by determining the most likely signal constellation points transmitted by the eNB . These soft decisions may be based on channel estimates computed by the channel estimator . The soft decisions are then decoded and de interleaved to recover the data and control signals that were originally transmitted by the eNB on the physical channel. The data and control signals are then provided to the controller processor .

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the UL the controller processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the core network. The upper layer packets are then provided to a data sink which represents all the protocol layers above the L2 layer. Various control signals may also be provided to the data sink for L3 processing. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

In the UL a data source is used to provide upper layer packets to the controller processor . The data source represents all protocol layers above the L2 layer. Similar to the functionality described in connection with the DL transmission by the eNB the controller processor implements the L2 layer for the user plane and the control plane by providing header compression ciphering packet segmentation and reordering and multiplexing between logical and transport channels based on radio resource allocations by the eNB . The controller processor is also responsible for HARQ operations retransmission of lost packets and signaling to the eNB .

Channel estimates derived by a channel estimator from a reference signal or feedback transmitted by the eNB may be used by the TX processor to select the appropriate coding and modulation schemes and to facilitate spatial processing. The spatial streams generated by the TX processor are provided to different antenna via separate transmitters TX. Each transmitter TX modulates an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

The UL transmission is processed at the eNB in a manner similar to that described in connection with the receiver function at the UE . Each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to a RX processor . The RX processor may implement the L1 layer.

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the UL the controller processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the UE . Upper layer packets from the controller processor may be provided to the core network. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an ACK and or NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for receiving from an originator wireless communications device a request to initiate a call with a target wireless communications device and sending a call announce message that corresponds to the request to a network node. The method embodied may further include receiving from the network node an internet control message protocol ICMP message indicative of the node lacking a connection to a radio access network that corresponds to the target and sending a status failure message to the originator indicative of the call failing. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

