---

title: Systems and methods for dynamic mobile printing based on scheduled events
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed method for dynamic mobile printing based on scheduled events. One method includes receiving, from a device associated with a user, an identifier associated with the user and a print request, the print request including one or more print items to be printed; accessing, by a server, a calendar of the user based on the received identifier associated with the user; determining, by the server, whether an event of the calendar is scheduled for a time of interest; locating, by the server, a printer near a location of the event when the event is scheduled for the time of interest; and transmitting, by the server, the one or more print items to the printer near the location of the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417832&OS=09417832&RS=09417832
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 09417832
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150401
---
This application is a continuation of pending U.S. application Ser. No. 14 341 208 filed Jul. 25 2014 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to increasing productivity and accessibility of resources in a physical facility. More specifically exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for reducing an individual s time spent on accessing information or making a request relating to a facility and improving the accuracy and efficiency in fulfilling a request via mobile communication.

In any facility such as an office building apartment building commercial building e.g. mall sporting music venue or the like people often find themselves desiring information about the facility and or desiring to submit a request relating to their interaction with the facility. For example people may desire information about where various rooms stores or amenities are located. In addition or alternatively people might desire to submit various requests such as requests to have certain facilities repaired or to reserve portions of a facility for private use. As a result building managers traditionally erected physical directories or distributed paper directories that individuals could consult to explore the facility. Also management would traditionally implement procedures for making requests such as by filling out a request form with a facilities department or submitting a conference room request form etc.

In the context of commercial buildings in particular many employers implement programs to train employees on how to submit request forms to address various issues. In addition to the time and expense spent on these training programs the actual request may take time being submitted to the appropriate department and may lack sufficient specificity for the request to be implemented. In the meantime or instead of sending the request the employee may spend time attempting to resolve the request on his or her own. This may result is a loss of employee productivity and or an inaccurate or incomplete resolution to the initial request. For example an employee may wish to report a problem with his or her printer to the information technology IT department of his or her employer. In order to do this the employee may have to make a call compose an email and or fill out a form making a request wait to communicate with an IT officer and check back with the IT officer to obtain the status of the request. These steps may take a significant amount of time reducing employees happiness and productivity and may result in the request not being timely completed.

Accordingly a need exists for systems and methods for facilitating accurate efficient and rapid processing of facilities requests. The present disclosure is directed to among other things improving an experience and reducing an amount of time spent on making a facilities request and to improving the accuracy of fulfilling a request via mobile communication.

According to certain embodiments a computer implemented method is disclosed for dynamic mobile printing based on scheduled events the method comprising receiving from a device associated with a user an identifier associated with the user and a print request the print request including one or more print items to be printed accessing by a server a calendar of the user based on the received identifier associated with the user determining by the server whether an event of the calendar is scheduled for a time of interest locating by the server a printer near a location of the event when the event is scheduled for the time of interest and transmitting by the server the one or more print items to the printer near the location of the event.

According to certain embodiments a system is disclosed for dynamic mobile printing based on scheduled events the system comprising a memory storage device storing instructions for dynamic mobile printing based on scheduled events and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to perform a method including receiving from a device associated with a user an identifier associated with the user and a print request the print request including one or more print items to be printed accessing by a server a calendar of the user based on the received identifier associated with the user determining by the server whether an event of the calendar is scheduled for a time of interest locating by the server a printer near a location of the event when the event is scheduled for the time of interest and transmitting by the server the one or more print items to the printer near the location of the event.

According to one embodiment a computer readable medium is disclosed that stores instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to execute a method dynamic mobile printing based on scheduled events the method comprising receiving from a device associated with a user an identifier associated with the user and a print request the print request including one or more print items to be printed accessing by a server a calendar of the user based on the received identifier associated with the user determining by the server whether an event of the calendar is scheduled for a time of interest locating by the server a printer near a location of the event when the event is scheduled for the time of interest and transmitting by the server the one or more print items to the printer near the location of the event.

Additional objects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments will be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosed embodiments. The objects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the disclosed embodiments as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods for improving an individual s or user s interaction with a facility and or the people and services associated with the facility to reducing an amount of time spent on making a request and to improving the accuracy of fulfilling a facilities related request via mobile communication.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure a user may use a mobile device in communication with a wireless Wi Fi router or a wireless network that is in communication with the Internet to submit a request for information or services. Although described herein as often pertaining to mobile devices and applications it should be appreciated that the user may be operating any type of electronic device whether mobile or not. In one embodiment the user may submit the request to a server by submitting an image of the user s identifier e.g. ID workplace badge or building badge and or an asset s component s or entity s identifier to a server via the Internet or other network. Based on the submitted identifier s the server may access a database to retrieve information regarding the user or entity associated with the identifier and identify the user s location based on the leveraged Wi Fi router or any other location specific indicators. Alternatively the location of the user may be identified using global positioning GPS coordinates of the user. The server may then prompt the user to submit a specific request based on the identified asset component or entity and or location of the user. Once received the server may process the request and provide the user with information regarding the status of the request and may also update any databases and or provide other users information regarding the request.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a user may use a mobile device in communication with the Wi Fi router or the wireless network that is in communication with the Internet to schedule printing and or to print based on the schedule of the user and or a location of the user. In an embodiment the user may create access update and or store events on his or her calendar that is stored on a calendar server system. When creating an event the user may provide the time and date of the event and may provide a location of the event. The user may enter the location of the event and or have a server identify the user s location for the location of the event. The user may also provide one or more documents to be printed for the event. If the user provides documents for the event a server may store the documents and print the documents to a printer near the event s location at or near the time of the event. Alternatively or additionally the user may request that the server print the documents at a user provided location and a user provided time.

Referring now to the figures is a schematic diagram of an environment in which a user may identify and submit information related to a request for information printing or services relating to a facility according to exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. Specifically depicts and environment or facility which may be an office building apartment building commercial building e.g. mall sporting music venue or the like. In one embodiment environment or facility may be a workplace for a plurality of individuals or users people individuals and users are used interchangeably herein . In one embodiment facility may include one or more physical spaces or rooms . Of course it should be appreciated that facility may span any number of campuses buildings or cities. Facility may be a complex network of buildings for a multi national corporation spread around the globe. Alternatively facility may be as small as a single office.

As described above facility may be configured to enable users to identify and submit information related to a request for information printing or services relating to the facility. Accordingly facility may be provided with one or more systems devices and indicia with which users may interact to submit requests for information or services from those systems and devices. For example facility may be provided with a server system provided in communication with one or more wireless access points WAPs . Server systems may include databases and processors configured to execute methods of enabling users to request information or services relating to the facility. In addition server systems may include any number of servers relating to the facility and or a business occupying the facility such as e mail servers printing servers calendar servers helpdesk servers information technology and or Internet technology collectively IT servers human resources HR servers employee servers document management servers etc. as will be described in more detail below.

In addition one or more of users which may be owners and or employees of the business es occupying the facility may each possess one or more electronic devices for interacting with the facility and more specifically for interacting with the server systems and or WAPs . In one embodiment the users electronic devices may be any type of mobile phone personal data assistant PDA tablet personal computer PC an electronic kiosk or any other electronic device that may send and receive information via a wireless network such as over the Internet or a local or wide area network LAN or WAN . One or more of the electronic devices may include an optical component configured to capture and or recognize an image and save and or transmit the image via the Internet or a wireless network. For example the optical component may be a camera scanner or any other suitable optical component. The electronic devices may also be provided with a Bluetooth or other radio frequency communication protocol and or a near field communication NFC device for communicating with other suitably provisioned devices. Alternatively or in addition to an optical component the electronic devices may include one or more audio and or video components configured to capture and or recognize a sound series of sounds and or frame s and save and or transmit the sound s and or frame s via the wireless network. For example an audio component may include a microphone or any other suitable audio component and a video component may include any type of camera.

In one embodiment an optical component of each of electronic devices may be used to capture and or recognize an identifier or indicia associated with any entity or asset of the facility such as a user a piece of equipment e.g. printer laptop tablet television desk chair etc. a physical location e.g. office building conference room office etc. or any other entity. The indicia may be any machine readable visual representation capable of being captured and or scanned by an optical component of an electronic device . For example the indicia may be a one two or three dimensional barcode or any other visual identifier. Alternatively the indicia may include alphanumeric indicia such as a name room number serial number etc. which the electronic device or related device or module may decode or otherwise recognize as indicative of the entity or asset of the facility . In one embodiment the indicia may be associated with an entity or asset and the association may be saved in retrievable memory such as on a computer readable medium associated with server systems .

In one embodiment a record of an association of an identifier of an asset or entity saved in memory may be located in one or more locations based on one or more characteristics of the entity. These locations may be servers or other suitable devices configured to house and access computer readable memory. For example in an organization such as a large corporation educational organization government agency etc. a separate server may store information for a particular department. In the exemplary example shown in an organization may have a network with separate servers such as the HR server systems configured to store share and update information regarding employees the IT server systems configured to store share and update information regarding electronic equipment and requests to repair electronic equipment the asset management server systems configured to store share and update information regarding physical property the facilities server systems configured to store share and update information regarding various buildings and offices that are part of the organization the calendar server systems configured to store share and update information regarding employees calendars and or finance server systems configured to store share and update information regarding costs and charges.

The servers may communicate with one or more servers such as request server having database s processor s and UI module s via any LAN and or WAN. The communication may be through wires or wirelessly via the Internet or LAN or WAN or any other suitable means. The servers such as request server may receive and transmit information from devices such as mobile devices and other devices that may connect to request server . Each server systems such as HR server systems IT server systems asset management server systems facilities server systems calendar server systems and or finance server systems may communicate directly with each other via the network or through a server or servers such as request server or any other server and or server system.

In one embodiment database s may include any type of RAM or ROM embodied in a physical storage medium such as magnetic storage including floppy disk hard disk or magnetic tape semiconductor storage such as solid state disk SSD or flash memory optical disc storage or magneto optical disc storage. In addition processor s may include one or more processors for processing data according to instructions stored in the memory. The functions of the processor may be provided by a single dedicated processor or by a plurality of processors. Moreover the processor may include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware or any other hardware capable of executing software. The UI module s may include any type or combination of programs for generating UIs displayed on mobile devices including but not limited to any input output devices such as a display monitor touchpad touchscreen microphone camera keyboard and or mouse. In one embodiment UI module s may be configured to implement any number or type of UIs whether tailored for desktop PC or mobile device implementation including but not limited to the user interfaces described below with respect to .

In one embodiment HR server systems may be configured to implement any number or type of systems configured to manage people or employees such as individual location information demographic information individual desk or office information individual photographs individual home addresses individual equipment assignments etc. IT server systems may be configured to implement any number or type of systems configured to manage and store individual IT assignments such as computer printer or mobile device assignments including device IDs e.g. MAC ID or serial numbers an IT profile a search and or browsing history a clearance accessibility level etc. Asset management server systems may be configured to implement any number or type of systems configured to manage and store information relating to any asset equipment or component of a facility such as printer computer wireless access point lab equipment server display projector television or any other device or system considered to be an asset of the facility. Facilities server systems may be configured to implement any number or type of systems configured to manage and store information relating to a component of a facility such as a facility floor plan campus map global map facility map equipment map amenities map facility amenities map and so on. Calendar server systems may be configured to implement any number or type of systems configured to manage and store information relating to a calendar of an individual such as events locations times dates attendees documents attachments event information etc. Finance server systems may be configured to implement any number or type of systems configured to manage and store information relating to finances such as costs for assets and resources usage. Any one or more of HR server systems IT server systems asset management server systems facilities server systems calendar server systems and or finance server systems may be configured to store information relating to requests generate presentations of information generate tickets for initiating the performance of service or maintenance store documents for printing calendar events book locations and so on.

In one embodiment request server may be configured to communicate with one or more of HR server systems IT server systems asset management server systems facilities server systems calendar server systems and or finance server systems to perform the methods described herein whether by wired or wireless communications. For example request server may include one or more translators or application programming interfaces APIs configured to communicate with various types of known servers systems for managing assets equipment people facilities calendars finances and so on. In addition request server may be configured to facilitate interaction between mobile devices and those server systems whether directly or indirectly and whether through the Internet or over LAN or WAN.

As described above in one embodiment mobile devices may be configured to interact with a facility through among other means imaging of indicia . Accordingly in one embodiment system of may be configured to operate in conjunction with exemplary indicia depicted in . is a schematic diagram of devices and indicia configured to enable users to identify and submit information related to a request for information or services relating to a facility according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.

For example as shown in in one embodiment a two dimensional barcode may be displayed on an ID badge of a user such as an employee of a company or a student at an educational institution or any other organization. Also shown in are other examples of identifiers or indicia such as a one dimensional bar code displayed on a surface of a piece of equipment such as a printer and a two dimensional bar code displayed on a name plate of a room such as an office and or a conference room. As shown in a mobile device containing an optical component e.g. a camera may be used to capture an image of the identifier or indicia associated with the respective entity and transmit the image to a server for processing a request. Alternatively mobile device may read and decode any indicia or otherwise locally obtain one or more data elements or unique IDs from the indicia. In one embodiment a user may scan his or her own badge containing indicia e.g. a two dimensional barcode or QR code to log in to a mobile application on a mobile device such as electronic device mobile device and or mobile device . For example the indicia may contain a unique ID associated with the user s identity whether in an HR database such as in an HR server systems or otherwise. The user may then once logged in easily interact directly or indirectly with assets and or components of a facility e.g. printer and or room of facilities to make certain requests for information or services relating to those assets or facilities.

Based on entity information received and or the image of the identifier received from the user s mobile device the server such as a request server may access a database to retrieve information regarding the entity associated with the identifier step . For example request server may communicate with the HR server systems to access information regarding the user based on the user s identification bar code . As another example request server may communicate with the asset management server systems to access information regarding a printer such as printer .

At step request server may determine the location of the mobile device from which the entity information and or image was sent. This location determination may be based in part on receiving information regarding the location of the wireless connection point such as WAP which the mobile device connected to in order to communicate with request server . For example if the user of the mobile device accessed the network by connecting to a stationary wireless port such as a wireless router connected to the network the server may determine that the user is in close proximity to the stationary wireless port. In addition to or alternatively request server may determine the location of the user using global positioning GPS data of the mobile device . The location of the user may be used by request server to better facilitate the user s request. Additionally or alternatively the location may be determined by accessing HR server systems for a default location of a user such as a user s office or desk determined by accessing asset management server systems for a location of equipment and or determined by accessing facilities server system for a room location.

At step request server may prompt the user to submit a specific request based on the information retrieved from the other servers. For example in a manner as described above request server may determine that the user is a new employee and has sent an image of an identifier associated with a printer. Based on this information request server may send a message to the user via the mobile device in the form of a text email or other form of communication prompting the user to submit a request and may provide a list of options such as if the user would like to connect to the printer if the user would like to report a problem with the printer if the user would like further information about the printer etc. As another example the request may be a request to access a calendar of the user a request to create or edit an event for the calendar of the user and or a request to share a calendar or an event. The user may then submit a request in response to the prompt via the mobile device .

At step request server may receive the request and process it such as sending the request to the relevant entity to fulfill the request and or retrieve any information in the request for the relevant database. Prior to processing the request request server may determine if the user is authorized to make the request. For example request server may retrieve information about the user from a server such as HR server systems based on the user s identifier. HR server systems may include information regarding the type of requests that user is authorized to make. For example HR server systems may include various levels of security or permissions associated with each user and what type of requests the user may make using the network. Any suitable type or restrictions and categories may be associated with each user. These restrictions may be set by an administrator or any other suitable entity. For example request server may retrieve information about the user from HR server systems such as that the user has left the company and determine based on this information that the user is not authorized to make the request. In this case request server may send a communication to the mobile device of the user informing the user that they are not authorized to make the request. If request server determines based on information retrieved from the database s that the user is authorized to make the request then the request may proceed to being processed at step .

Step may include steps of sending and receiving communications such as messages documents print commands information instructions etc. to servers printers peripherals mobile devices other users etc. in order to fulfill the request. For example referring to the previous example if the user requests via the mobile device to print to a printer connected to the network request server may communicate with IT server systems and the asset management server systems to connect the mobile device to the printer .

At step depending on the request request server may check the status of the request by communication with the relevant server and then provide a status communication to the mobile device regarding the request. Once the request has been completed request server may send a communication to the mobile device at step informing the user that the request has been completed. At step request server may update any databases based on the fulfilled request. For example at step the request server may send finance server systems information about a print job of a user. The cost of the print job of the user may then be calculated by finance server systems . Further the cost may be associate with the user a department of the user and or any other association as desired.

In an example in accordance with the present disclosure the user may provide a request prior to sending an image of an identifier therefore the step or prompting the user for a request may be skipped. In another example in accordance with the present disclosure the user may provide a request at the same time as sending an image of the identifier and therefore the step of prompting the user for a request may be skipped.

Accordingly is a schematic diagram of a device and indicia for enabling users to log in to a mobile application for identifying and submitting information related to a request for information or services relating to a facility according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. Specifically depicts an embodiment in which a user may possess an ID card or badge having for example a photograph avatar or other optional image along with a machine readable identifier or indicia . In one embodiment as described above with respect to indicia of badge the indicia may be a one or two dimensional barcode such as for example a QR code. Thus a user may operate his or her mobile device and a mobile application thereon to capture an image of the indicia or otherwise decode the indicia to obtain at least a user identifier associated with the depicted user . Accordingly a mobile application operating on mobile device may identify a user e.g. through the decoded unique ID authenticate the user of the mobile application as being the owner of the mobile device and tailor one or more presentations of data or generating of tickets based on the authenticated user identity.

For example in one embodiment the user may select element to scan or otherwise image or decode machine readable indicia printed on an asset. For example the user may scan a barcode or QR code printed on a label of a piece of equipment as shown with respect to the printer of . Alternatively the user may select user element to manually enter an asset tag or unique ID number using an alphanumeric keyboard of the user s device. In addition as shown in a user may manipulate user element to indicate a problem type such as a malfunction of or damage to the selected equipment or asset. The user may also or alternatively type in a narrative description of a problem using user element or form .

As shown in once a user has either successfully scanned an equipment or asset indicia or manually entered an equipment or asset unique ID the interface may display profile information associated with the equipment or asset. For example profile information may include a description of the asset or equipment the name number ID etc. of the individual to whom the asset or equipment is optionally assigned a physical location of the asset or equipment e.g. address building number room number lat long coordinates etc. and or a phone number associated with a location or owner of the equipment or asset. As shown at ticket creation window a user may enter a problem type problem details etc. and then manipulate user element to snap a photograph of the equipment or asset to assist in locating diagnosing and or repairing the subject asset or equipment. For example as shown in the user may have uploaded a photograph of a particular piece of equipment or asset for which the user is requesting information or service.

Accordingly based on a user s interaction with the interfaces and user elements described and depicted with respect to system of may operate programmed instructions to execute a method of processing the user s request for service and or generating a ticket to perform the user s requested service. For example request server may receive the request from a mobile device store the received information in database s execute processor s to interact with one or more of HR server systems IT server systems asset management server systems and facilities server systems to obtain relevant information from those systems and generate suitable requests relating to the equipment. In addition UI module s may update a display of information repair tickets etc. on a display of a mobile device . For example as shown in processor s may interact with one or more of HR server systems IT server systems asset management server systems and facilities server systems to generate a ticket and interact with UI module s to present a ticket and or ticket number to a user that requested the related service.

For example a user may submit a request for information relating to available building amenities equipment directions policies etc. As shown in in one embodiment a user may manipulate various user interface elements of interface to generate and submit a request for transmission through the mobile device . For example a user may be presented with one or more user elements which may be hyperlinks buttons or other mobile application elements that a user can select to initiate making a request for information. For example as shown in a user may manipulate one or more of user elements to issue requests for information relating to gyms help centers receptionists game rooms conference rooms and so on. In one embodiment the building amenities displayed in relation to user elements may be sorted based on their respective location relative to a detected location of the user i.e. with the closest building amenities listed first .

As shown in in one embodiment the mobile application interface may display indicia representing individuals within some predetermined proximity of a detected location of the user. In one embodiment the individuals displayed in relation to user elements may be sorted based on their respective location relative to a detected location of the user i.e. with the closest individuals listed first . In one embodiment the displayed indicia may include a name office location building location phone number or any other useful information stored in relation to the individual.

As shown in in one embodiment the mobile application interface may display indicia representing amenities within some predetermined proximity of a detected location of the user. For example the amenities may include break areas cafeterias conference rooms copy rooms restrooms vending areas printers etc. In one embodiment the amenities displayed in relation to user elements may be sorted based on their respective location relative to a detected location of the user i.e. with the closest building amenities listed first . In one embodiment the displayed indicia may include a name office location building location phone number or any other useful information stored in relation to the amenity.

As shown in in one embodiment the mobile application interface may display indicia representing facilities rooms or offices within some predetermined proximity of a detected location of the user. For example the facilities may include any type of office or conference room. In one embodiment the facilities displayed in relation to user elements may be sorted based on their respective location relative to a detected location of the user i.e. with the closest building facilities listed first . In one embodiment the displayed indicia may include a name office location building location phone number or any other useful information stored in relation to the facilities.

In one embodiment as shown in a user may be able to manipulate the mobile application operating on the mobile device to check in to any desired location. For example the user may publically or semi publically associate himself or herself with some particular location by scanning a barcode e.g. by manipulating user element of interface known to have a particular location. For example the user may check in to a particular office or conference room by scanning a barcode or QR code on the door or wall of that room. Alternatively the user may check in to the office or room by scanning a barcode or QR code on a piece of equipment in that room.

As shown in after selecting to create or edit an event for example by interacting with user element the interface may display event information as shown by elements that are associated with an event of a calendar of the user. The event information may be pre populated with event information by accessing calendar server system when creating a new event and or editing an existing event. As shown by user element a subject of the meeting event reminder and or appointment may be entered manually if desired.

In one embodiment the user may select user element to scan or otherwise image or decode machine readable indicia printed on an asset such as a conference room and or office. For example the user may scan a barcode or QR code printed such as indicia of a room as shown with respect to the printer of . Alternatively the user may select user element to manually enter or select an asset tag or unique ID number using an alphanumeric keyboard of a mobile device.

User elements and enable a user to manually enter or select a start time and date for an event and an end time and date for the event. The user may select user element to scan or otherwise image or decode machine readable indicia printed on an asset such as a printer to use. Further user element may enable a user to manually enter or select attachments such as documents images files etc. associated with the meeting. User element when selected may enable the printing of the attachments. User element when selected may enable the printing of the attachments to be queued in a printing queue for printing at or near the meeting time and date.

As shown by user element a user may enter a memo and or notes associated with the event. User element may enable a user to add attendees for the event. The user may select user element to scan or otherwise image or decode machine readable indicia printed on an asset such as an ID badge. For example the user may scan a barcode or QR code such as an ID badge of a user as shown with respect to the ID badge of . Alternatively the user may select user element to manually enter attendees or select attendees based on their name unique ID number etc. using an alphanumeric keyboard of a mobile device. User element may save the event to the calendar of the user which may be stored in the calendar server system .

Based on the print request the server may determine whether the print request includes printer information and or time date information step . If the print request does not include printer information and or time date information the method proceeds to step . If the print request includes at least one of printer information and time date information the method proceeds to step .

At step the server may access a database to retrieve a calendar of the user based on the identifier received with the communication. For example request server may communicate with the calendar server systems to access a calendar of the user associated with the identifier. Based on the accessed calendar of the user the server may determine whether an event is scheduled for a time of interest. The time of interest may be a current time and date a period before a current time and date and including the current time and date a period before a current time and date a current time and date and a period after a period after a current time and date a period around a current time and date and or a period around a current time and date and including the current time and date. If there is no scheduled event for time of interest the method proceeds to step . If there is a scheduled event for the time of interest the method proceeds to step .

At step the server may determine a location of the user. The server may locate a mobile device of the user from which the communication including the print request was sent. This location determination may be based in part on receiving information regarding the location of the wireless connection point such as WAP which the mobile device connected to in order to communicate with the server. For example if the user of the mobile device accessed the network by connecting to a stationary wireless port such as a wireless router connected to the network the server may determine that the user is in close proximity to the stationary wireless port. In addition or alternatively the server may determine the location of the user using GPS data of the mobile device. Additionally or alternatively the location may be determined by accessing HR server systems for a default location of the user such as a user s office or desk determined by accessing asset management server systems for a location of equipment and or determined by accessing facilities server system for a room location.

After the location of the user has been determined the server may determine whether there are any printers near the location of the user step . For example with the location information determined at step the server may access asset management server systems and or facilities server systems for locations of one or more printers near the location of the user. If there are no printers near the location of the user or if the location of the user cannot be determined the method proceeds to step in which the one or more print items are printed to a default printer of the user or at a default location of the user. If there are printers near the location of the user the method proceeds to step .

At step the server may select a printer near the location of the user and may determine whether the printer is busy. If the printer is not busy the method proceeds to step in which the one or more print items may be printed on the printer near the location of the user. If the printer is busy the method proceeds to step in which another printer near the location of the user if any is selected and then proceeds to step .

If there is a scheduled event for the time of interest step the server locates one or more printers near the location of the scheduled event step . For example the server may use the location information for the event such as the location information provided in user element of and asset management server systems and or facilities server systems to locate one or more printers near the location of the scheduled event. If there are no printers near the location of the event and or if the location of the event cannot be determined the one or more print items may be printed to a default printer of the user or at a default location of the user.

At step the server may select a printer near the scheduled event location and may determine whether the printer is busy. If the printer is not busy the method proceeds to step in which the one or more print items are printed on the printer near the scheduled event location. If the printer is busy the method proceeds to step in which another printer near the scheduled event location if any is selected and then proceeds to step .

If the print request includes at least one of printer information and time date information step the server may determine whether a printer location was provided with the printer information . For example the server may use the location information for the event when user element is selected. The location information provided in user element of and asset management server systems and or facilities server systems to locate one or more printers. If the printer location was not provided the method may proceed to step . If the printer location was provided the method may proceed to step .

At step the server may determine whether time date information was provided. If time date information was provided the server may queue the one or more one or more print items to be printed at the time and the date of the time date information to a default printer of a user step . If time date information was not provided the method proceeds to step .

If the printer location was provided step the server may locate one or more printers near the printer location provided step . For example the server may locate or more printers by accessing asset management server systems for a location of equipment and or accessing facilities server system for a room location of one or more printers.

After one or more printers are located near the printer location provided the server may determine whether time date information was provided step . If time date information was provided the server may queue the one or more one or more print items to be printed at the time and the date of the time date information to the one or more printers located near the printer location provided step . If time date information was not provided the method proceeds to step .

At step the server may select a printer near the location provided and may determine whether the printer is busy. If the printer is not busy the method proceeds to step in which the one or more print items are printed on the printer near the printer location provided. If the printer is busy the method proceeds to step in which another printer near the printer location provided if any is selected and then proceeds to step .

Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the mobile communication network into the computer platform of a server and or from a server to the mobile device. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

While the presently disclosed sharing application methods devices and systems are described with exemplary reference to mobile applications and to transmitting HTTP data it should be appreciated that the presently disclosed embodiments may be applicable to any environment such as a desktop or laptop computer an automobile entertainment system a home entertainment system etc. Also the presently disclosed embodiments may be applicable to any type of Internet protocol that is equivalent or successor to HTTP.

The many features and advantages of the disclosure are apparent from the detailed specification and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the disclosure which fall within the true spirit and scope of the disclosure. Further since numerous modifications and variations will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the disclosure to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the disclosure.

Other embodiments of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

