---

title: Method for using the GPU to create haptic friction maps
abstract: A haptics rendering system comprises: a display device having a display screen and one or more haptic feedback mechanisms associated with at least one tactile output peripheral; and a graphics processing unit (GPU) communicatively coupled to the display device. The GPU: receives one or more portions of display image software code for a three dimensional display image; generates a three dimensional (3D) visual output of the display image for display on the display device; and concurrently generates one or more specific friction maps to provide haptic feedback of depth and/or texture associated with specific portions of the display image that comprise at least one portion having at least one of a different depth and a different texture than other portions of the display image. The GPU renders the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands within the display image software code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09395818&OS=09395818&RS=09395818
owner: DELL PRODUCTS, L.P.
number: 09395818
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150420
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 609 446 filed Sep. 11 2012 the content of which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to display devices utilized with information handling system and in particular to providing improved power efficiency and color accuracy of display devices.

As the value and use of information continue to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system IHS generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

Many conventional information handling systems including handheld computers and other handheld consumer devices occasionally include a touch screen display that is utilized as a tactile touch input device as well as a visual output device. Additionally certain of these displays are further designed to provide haptic feedback in the form of vibrations and or pulses. Other types of haptic peripherals such as touchpads and haptics mice are also utilized in some applications. However with the conventional implementation of these devices the range of sensations that can be provided and or the ability to provide tactile tangible output is limited and requires implementation of a separate haptic engine to capture the graphics frame buffer and process the screen image. Currently these conventional methods either require direct software support of the feedback or a set of middleware that monitors the frame buffer and processes the current screen image. This approach is processor resource intensive and leads to lower battery life in the electronic device. In addition this approach has limitations on the range of friction scenarios that can be extracted from the screen image.

Disclosed are a method and rendering system for providing sensations of surface texture and depth and or height dimensions associated with a three dimensional 3D display image presented on a touch screen display by using the graphical processing unit GPU to create and or render separate friction maps and or texture maps correlated to the display image. Also disclosed is an information handling system configured with a GPU and haptics subsystem that renders the texture and depth height dimensions by creating friction maps that trigger specific sensations associated with surfaces of objects within the display image.

According to one embodiment the information handling system comprises a processor capable of executing software code at least one haptic peripheral including one or more of a touchpad a haptics mouse and a touch screen display device having a display screen a next generation haptics peripheral one or more haptic feedback mechanisms associated with the at least one haptic peripheral and disposed proximate to the associated haptic peripheral for generating one or more sensations associated with a display image and a graphics processing unit GPU communicatively coupled to the processor and to the display device. The GPU receives one or more portions of the software code corresponding to the display image and generates a three dimensional 3D visual output of the display image for display on the display device. The three dimensional visual output contains a width height and a depth dimension respectively representing x y and z planes. The GPU also concurrently generates one or more specific friction maps to provide haptic feedback associated with specific portions of the display image that comprise at least one portion having at least one of a different depth and a different texture than other portions of the display image. According to one aspect the GPU renders the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands within display image software code received from one or more of the processor and a display data input source.

According to a second embodiment the method comprises the GPU receiving one or more portions of software code corresponding to a display image generating a three dimensional 3D visual output of the display image for display on the display device and concurrently generating one or more specific friction maps to provide haptic feedback associated with specific portions of the display image that comprise at least one portion having at least one of a different depth and a different texture than other portions of the display image. Also the method comprises the GPU rendering the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands received from one or more of a processor of the information handling system and a display data input source. According to one aspect the method further comprises creating the friction map utilizing a z level function wherein an amount of friction is correlated to a closeness on a depth plane of a surface of an object within the display image relative to a background plane of the display image. According to yet another aspect the method comprises passing the generated friction map to a haptic friction buffer to trigger the haptic subsystem to process the generated friction map within the haptic friction buffer and in response to detecting a contact between an image interface tool and the haptic device e.g. passing of a screen interface stylus or finger across the touch screen of the display device apply a haptic response such as a vibration to represent edges and surfaces of objects visually represented that are at a higher depth dimension than the background plane of the display image. The method further comprises generating the haptic map with depth height dimension parameter values which trigger an increase in a haptic response such as a higher vibration intensity at one or more points of the display image in response to functional interfacing of the image interface tool at a location of the display screen at which a surface of an object within the display image is visibly closer in a depth plane than a background of the display image where an amount of increase in the feedback e.g. vibration intensity correlates to a height of the surface of the object relative to the background and changing via the haptic subsystem an intensity of the feedback e.g. vibration based on a relative depth dimension of each point of an object over which the image interface tool functionally interfaces i.e. indirectly interfacing via an on screen cursor . Accordingly a higher object on a z plane triggers more intense haptic response e.g. greater vibration intensity than a lower object on the z plane and objects that appear closer in the display image are provided with a perceived sensed higher level of resistance to a detected contact of the screen interface stylus at that location of the display screen.

According to another aspect of the second embodiment the method comprises receiving within display image software code an indication of specific friction textures to assign to one or more rendered objects generating the haptic map based on the received software code indications to include one or more parameter values that represent the specific friction textures to apply to a surface of each of the one or more rendered objects to enable an image interface tool to detect the specific friction texture of each of the one or more rendered objects and providing within the haptic map one or more parameter values that represent different textures. The different textures are applied to one or more of a surface of an object within a window and an entire window to enable an image interface tool to detect an applied texture across an entire surface of the object and the window. Also according to one aspect the method provides that the GPU renders the display image places the display image in a normal frame buffer for display and places one of the display image and the haptic map correlated to the display image into a texture buffer whose contents are passed to the haptics subsystem for mapping onto a touch haptics device.

In accordance with a third embodiment a three dimensional 3D texture and haptics rendering system comprises a display device having a display screen at least one haptic peripheral including one or more of a touch screen a touchpad a haptics mice and a next generation haptics device one or more haptic feedback mechanisms associated with a respective haptic peripheral and disposed proximate to the haptics peripheral for generating one or more sensations associated with a display image and a graphics processing unit GPU communicatively coupled to the display device. The GPU a receives one or more portions of the display image software code of a three dimensional display image b generates a three dimensional 3D visual output of the display image for display on the display device and c concurrently generates one or more specific friction maps to provide haptic feedback associated with specific portions of the display image that comprise at least one portion having at least one of a different depth and a different texture than other portions of the display image. The GPU renders the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands within the display image software code.

The above summary contains simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail and is not intended as a comprehensive description of the claimed subject matter but rather is intended to provide a brief overview of some of the functionality associated therewith. Other systems methods functionality features and advantages of the claimed subject matter will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed written description.

The illustrative embodiments provide a method and a rendering system for providing sensations of surface texture and depth and or height dimensions associated with a three dimensional 3D display image presented on a touch screen display by using the graphical processing unit GPU to create and or render friction and or texture maps correlated to the display image. Also disclosed is an information handling system configured with a GPU and haptics subsystem that renders the texture and depth height dimensions by creating friction maps that trigger specific sensations associated with surfaces of objects within the display image. According to one embodiment a three dimensional 3D graphics rendering system comprises at least one haptic peripheral including one or more of a touchpad a haptics mouse and a touch screen display device having a display screen and a next generation haptics peripheral one or more haptic feedback mechanisms associated with the at least one haptic peripheral and disposed proximate to the associated haptic peripheral for generating one or more sensations associated with a display image and a graphics processing unit GPU communicatively coupled to the display device. The GPU receives one or more portions of display image software code for a three dimensional display image generates a three dimensional 3D visual output of the display image for display on the display device and concurrently generates one or more specific friction maps to provide haptic feedback of depth and or texture associated with specific portions of the display image that comprise at least one portion having at least one of a different depth and a different texture than other portions of the display image. The GPU renders the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands within the display image software code.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the disclosure specific exemplary embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosed embodiments. For example specific details such as specific method orders structures elements and connections have been presented herein. However it is to be understood that the specific details presented need not be utilized to practice embodiments of the present disclosure. It is also to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical architectural programmatic mechanical electrical and other changes may be made without departing from general scope of the disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present disclosure is defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

References within the specification to one embodiment an embodiment embodiments or one or more embodiments are intended to indicate that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. The appearance of such phrases in various places within the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Further various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another.

It is understood that the use of specific component device and or parameter names and or corresponding acronyms thereof such as those of the executing utility logic and or firmware described herein are for example only and not meant to imply any limitations on the described embodiments. The embodiments may thus be described with different nomenclature and or terminology utilized to describe the components devices parameters methods and or functions herein without limitation. References to any specific protocol or proprietary name in describing one or more elements features or concepts of the embodiments are provided solely as examples of one implementation and such references do not limit the extension of the claimed embodiments to embodiments in which different element feature protocol or concept names are utilized. Thus each term utilized herein is to be given its broadest interpretation given the context in which that terms is utilized.

Within the descriptions of the different views of the figures the use of the same reference numerals and or symbols in different drawings indicates similar or identical items and similar elements can be provided similar names and reference numerals throughout the figure s . The specific identifiers names and reference numerals assigned to the elements are provided solely to aid in the description and are not meant to imply any limitations structural or functional or otherwise on the described embodiments.

Various aspects of the disclosure are described from the perspective of an information handling system and a display device of or for use with an information handling system. For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system such as information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a handheld device personal computer a server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

With reference now to the figures and beginning with there is depicted a block diagram representation of an example information handling system within which one or more of the described features of the various embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented. Information handling system includes at least one central processing unit CPU or processor coupled to system memory via system interconnect . Also coupled to CPU via system interconnect is a graphics processing unit GPU with associated firmware drivers which can include a friction map generating FMG utility in one embodiment. System interconnect can be interchangeably referred to as a system bus in one or more embodiments. Also coupled to system interconnect is nonvolatile storage NVRAM within which can be stored one or more software and or firmware modules and one or more sets of data such as display image software code that can be utilized during operations of information handling system . These one or more software and or firmware modules can be loaded into system memory during operation of IHS . Specifically in one embodiment system memory can include therein a plurality of such modules including one or more of firmware F W basic input output system BIOS operating system O S and application s . These software and or firmware modules have varying functionality when their corresponding program code is executed by CPU or secondary processing devices such as GPU within information handling system .

It is appreciated that the display device described within the various embodiments can be a display configured for use as a stand alone display device requiring a cable or other form of connection to a separate device that generates images and or data for display on the display device. Additionally the display device can also be a part of the actual electronic device such as a liquid crystal display LCD utilized with tablet computers smartphones personal electronic devices and single integrated personal computing systems.

Example information handling system includes a battery and a power management module that provides power to the various components of the general system including CPU and GPU as well as to display device in one embodiment.

Example information handling system also includes input output I O controller which provides connectivity and management of one or more connected input device s of which touchpad is illustrated. Additionally as provided herein information handling system includes a touch screen display device that can be utilized for tactile input as well as tactile and visual output. Other I O devices which are not shown but can be provided include a keyboard mouse microphone or other type of connected input devices. Of these devices one or more can be configured as a haptic peripheral similar to touchpad and touchscreen of display device . For example a haptics mouse can be utilized with information handling system and be associated with a haptics subsystem as described in greater detail hereinafter. Aspects of the disclosure contemplate applying the described functionality to next generation tactile output haptic devices peripherals which can be a hybrid of the existing peripherals or a completely new peripheral that can be programmed to provide specific haptic response to texture depth and other qualities of a displayed image based on haptic texture data generated and or provided by the GPU . In one embodiment the information handling system can include one or more input mechanisms that enable input of display image software code from an external source directly to the GPU for processing. Additionally in one or more embodiments information handling system can include one or more device interfaces such as an optical reader a universal serial bus USB port a card reader Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMIA slot and or a high definition multimedia interface HDMI . Device interface s can be utilized to enable data to be read from or stored to corresponding removal storage device s such as a compact disk CD digital video disk DVD flash drive or flash memory card.

Indicated with dashed blocks are three firmware hardware implemented modules that enable GPU to be able to provide the functional features described herein. Specifically located on graphics card is a persistent storage block containing friction map generating FMG utility . In one embodiment FMG utility can be firmware that executes on GPU to cause GPU to perform the various processes described herein and illustrated within the flow charts of . In an alternate embodiment FMG utility can be located within GPU as a part of the device driver utility of GPU . According to one or more alternate embodiments FMG utility can be an application function that runs on GPU . In addition to FMG utility various aspects of the disclosure involves the implementation within the display system of both a display frame buffer as well as a separate haptics frame buffer . According to one embodiment display frame buffer and haptics frame buffer can be located within system memory . In an alternate embodiment provided by both buffers and can be located within a separate memory or storage M S off the GPU . Other functional components that are utilized to generate the display image with haptics feedback to create depth and texture sensations are provided within the descriptions of and .

As utilized herein the term screen interface stylus represents a physical object that interfaces with the display screen. In one or more embodiments the screen interface stylus can be a human finger or hand or other body part. An actual electromechanical or mechanical stylus can also be utilized in other embodiments possibly supporting next generation haptic capabilities. Also while the illustrative embodiment is shown and described from the perspective of a display device with a touch screen interface it is understood that the features described herein are fully applicable to any type of haptic peripheral or tactile output peripherals including a touchpad haptics mouse and other haptic devices designed for use with a computer having a GPU that can render haptic friction maps. Also the manner of interfacing with the visual surface of the display image is not necessarily by actual physical touch of a surface adjacent to the display image. And reference is made herein to a virtual or functional interfacing which refers to indirectly interfacing with an image via an on screen cursor. For example with a touchpad or haptic mouse the movement of the visible on screen cursor over the particular location of the image is detected and mapped to the specific location of the display image. The corresponding haptic map is then retrieved and the haptic data associated with the cursor location is conveyed to the feedback subsystem. The feedback subsystem then triggers a haptic response on the touch pad and or the mouse.

Also for completeness in describing the overall concepts of the disclosure reference is made herein to an image interface tool which is defined generally as one or more of the screen interface stylus or finger the cursor associated with a corresponding tactile output peripheral touchpad and or mouse etc. Also reference is made to functional virtual interfacing to explain the process of interfacing with the image utilizing the cursor from a haptic peripheral such as a touchpad and or haptic mouse being utilized as an interfacing device.

As further shown by display device comprises one or more haptic feedback mechanism s that can be triggered to cause one or more haptic feedbacks relative to the display device and or the overall system. As utilized herein the haptic feedback can include but is not limited to one or more of a vibration a pulse and a tone or other tactile feedback that causes a user of the tactile output peripheral to sense a tactile response to some stimulus. As described herein the stimulus can include at least one of the presence of a texture on a surface of an object within the display image and the relative depth or height dimension of an edge and or surface of an object that is different from a depth or height attributed to a background of the display image. According to one embodiment the texture depth and height sensation is presented at a window level across an entire surface area of the displayed object rather than at the edge of the window or object. In one embodiment the haptic feedback mechanism is a part of an overall haptic subsystem . Haptic subsystem is communicatively coupled to haptic friction buffer which as provided by receives friction maps rendered from the display image software code by GPU . Depending on implementation as described below GPU can be located within an external processing system or internal to the structure represented by casing of display device . As shown display device also comprises display subsystem which controls the presentation of a display image on the display screen . Display subsystem is communicatively coupled to display frame buffer which receives friction maps rendered from the display image software code by GPU . In an alternate embodiment haptic friction buffer and display frame buffer are respectively located within haptic subsystem and display subsystem . In another alternate embodiment haptic friction buffer and display frame buffer are both located within NVRAM or memory storage .

During graphics image processing within one or more embodiments of the information handling system and or the 3D graphics rendering system GPU receives one or more portions of the display image software code of a three dimensional display image and generates a three dimensional 3D visual output of the display image for display on the display device. According to one aspect of the disclosure the three dimensional visual output contains a width height and a depth dimension respectively representing x y and z planes. Additionally GPU concurrently generates one or more specific friction maps to provide haptic feedback associated with specific portions of the display image. The specific portions of the display image include at least one portion having at least one of a different depth and a different texture than other portions of the display image. Thus the GPU renders the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands within the display image software code.

According to one or more embodiments of the information handling system and or the 3D graphics rendering system the GPU further creates the friction map utilizing a z level function. With this z level function an amount of friction is correlated to a closeness on a depth plane of a surface of an object within the display image relative to a background plane of the display image. The GPU passes the generated friction map to the haptic friction buffer which is coupled between the GPU and the haptic subsystem and the haptic friction buffer temporarily holds friction maps generated by the GPU corresponding to the display image.

The haptic subsystem processes the generated friction map within the haptic friction buffer . Then in response to detecting a passing of an image interface tool such as a screen interface stylus or a mouse or touchpad cursor across the display screen the haptic subsystem generates a haptic response utilizing haptic response mechanisms associated with the display device . The haptic response is provided within at least one of an encompassing device e.g. the information handling system and either the display screen or display device via haptic feedback mechanism and or tactile output peripheral . In one embodiment the haptic response mechanism and or tactile output peripheral applies a vibration to represent edges and surfaces of objects visually represented below the screen interface stylus that are at a higher depth dimension than the background plane of the display image.

According to one or more embodiments of the information handling system and or the 3D graphics rendering system the GPU generates the haptic map with depth height dimension parameter values which trigger an increase in feedback intensity at one or more points of the display image in response to detection of passing of the image interface tool across the display screen at a location of the display screen at which a surface of an object within the display image is visibly closer in a depth plane than a background of the display image. Further according to one aspect of the disclosure the amount of increase in the feedback intensity correlates to a height of the surface of the object relative to the background. Also the haptic subsystem changes an intensity of the feedback e.g. vibration based on a relative depth dimension of each point of an object over which the image interface tool passes. Thus a higher object on a z plane triggers greater feedback intensity than a lower object on the z plane and objects that appear closer in the display image are provided with a higher level of resistance to a detected contact of the screen interface stylus at that location of the display screen .

According to one or more embodiments of the information handling system and or the 3D graphics rendering system the GPU further receives within display image software code an indication of specific friction textures to assign to one or more rendered objects generates the haptic map based on the received software code indications to include one or more parameter values that represent the specific friction textures to apply to a surface of each of the one or more rendered objects to enable a screen interface stylus to detect the specific friction texture of each of the one or more rendered objects and provides within the haptic map one or more parameter values that represent different textures. In one or more aspects the different textures are applied to one or more of a surface of an object within a window and an entire window to enable a screen interface stylus to detect an applied texture across an entire surface of the object and the window. Also in one or more embodiments the GPU renders the display image places the display image in a normal frame buffer for display and places one of the display image and the haptic map correlated to the display image into a texture buffer whose contents are passed to the haptics subsystem for mapping onto a touch haptics device.

Aspects of the disclosure provide that the above described information handling system comprises a processor capable of executing software code and which is also communicatively connected to the graphics processing unit GPU . The GPU is also communicatively coupled to the display device . According to one embodiment the GPU renders the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands within display image software code received from one or more of the processor and a display data input source. In the illustrative embodiment of the GPU is presented as being discrete from the CPU while in the illustrative embodiments of GPU is presented as being physically integrated within or connected to CPU and or CPU integrated circuit. Both representations are supported by the various described embodiments.

Certain aspects of the described disclosure are related to and provide additional capabilities in the natural user interface NUI space for driving more interactive touch capabilities. By utilizing the GPU whether integrated into or discrete from the processor to create the friction maps a much more efficient system is provided that enables the system to provide friction feedback without significant application effort or additional processing. As described herein the various embodiments of the disclosure involves utilizing the GPU to render a friction map along with the standard display image from the same set of received 3D commands instructions for generating the 3D display image. The friction map is created from a z level function whereby the amount of friction which can be a level of vibration intensity in one implementation increases as the z axis or z plane is closer to the user i.e. closer to a front of the display screen relative to a background image . As utilized herein the z axis or z plan dimension is indicative of a depth and or height of a surface relative to a background level which can be assumed to be a 0 point in the zth dimension. This representation of the differing friction levels e.g. vibration intensity would create the tactile sensory feedback that the image backgrounds are smooth and that closer objects have a higher level of resistance to the touch.

According to one aspect of the disclosure an enhancement is made to the application programming interface API that enables created software code to trigger the GPU to create and or render friction textures in addition to the visual textures. Using graphics rendering techniques the GPU will render friction maps into the haptic buffer from where the friction map will then be scanned out and formatted for the touch haptic device. Additionally the contents of the frame buffer are scanned out and formatted for the video display.

One aspect of this disclosure further allows for differing textures of windows so that one window positioned in front of another window would have a different feel to the entire window and not just to the edge of the window. Certain aspects of this disclosure can be extended to 3D games so that the user would be able to target objects better by getting resistance as the user s finger crosses an object that is not part of the background.

According to one embodiment rather than have the GPU automatically generate the haptic maps from received image data software code specific software code can be written with particular friction textures such that particular rendered objects would have or be provided with an assigned i.e. by the software code texture so that users moving their fingers along and or touching the display screen would detect a friction feedback that would approximate the composition of the 3D display image. For example in one or more embodiments the software code could include haptic generating code for providing a feeling of skin wood metal or cloth and the GPU would process that code and then directly map the specific texture desired and or programmed by the application programmer on to the surface of the specific object and or surface within the display image. Notably according to one aspect of the disclosure these mappings would occur by the GPU using the same 3D object rendering commands but also concurrently processing the friction texture in addition to the image texture.

Notably regardless of whether the GPU independently generated the friction maps based on the enhancement to GPU driver i.e. the extending of the firmware to include FMG utility or in response to execution of a pre programmed software code with the haptic code included therein the GPU would render both the display image in the normal display frame buffer for display and the friction maps into a texture buffer haptic friction buffer . The friction maps can then be passed to the haptics subsystem for mapping onto the tactile output peripheral device.

The present disclosure is applicable to a wide range of consumer electronics devices which supports programmable haptic feedback via one or more of a variety of haptic feedback mechanisms and or methodologies. The specific manner in which the haptic feedback mechanisms operates to provide the texture and depth dimension sensations described herein are not restricted to any one of the available and or future developed haptic feedback technologies. Importantly the disclosed embodiments provide full surface friction mapping in contrast with an approach that would involve capturing the graphics frame buffer and performing edge detection on the screen image to find edges borders and other boundaries. The edge detection method requires either direct software support of the feedback or a set of middleware that monitors the frame buffer and creates an edge map of the current screen image. This edge detection approach is CPU resource intensive and leads to lower battery life of the system. In addition this approach has limitations on the range of friction scenarios that can be extracted from screen image.

It should be noted that while most of the description herein reference a three dimensional application aspects of the disclosure are fully applicable to rendering of two dimensional display images as well. With these implementations the GPU processes a 2D object for display and the software also triggers the GPU to map specific textures to the 2D objects being displayed. These simpler implementations are squarely within the functionality described for the three dimensional renderings by the GPU.

Referring now to there are illustrated two flow charts of the methods for providing sensations of surface texture and depth and or height dimensions associated with a three dimensional 3D display image presented on a touch screen display according to one or more embodiments. Aspects of the methods are described with reference to the components of and the image graph of . Several of the processes of the method of can be implemented by the GPU executing display image software code and or friction map generation FMG utility within an information handling system that includes one or more tactile output peripherals such as a the touch screen display device having a display screen and one or more haptic feedback mechanisms disposed within or proximate to the tactile output peripheral for generating one or more tactile sensations associated with a display image. Other method processes for method of can be completed directly by the haptic subsystem and or the haptic response mechanism . For simplicity in describing the methods the processes can be generally described as being performed by the 2D 3D haptics rendering system which encompasses each of the GPU haptic subsystem and associated haptic response mechanism .

The method of begins at start block and proceeds to block which provides a graphics processing unit GPU receiving one or more portions of software code corresponding to a display image. The method then provides the GPU generating a three dimensional 3D visual output of the display image for display on the display device block . The method further includes the GPU rendering the display image and placing the display image in a display image frame buffer for display block .

According to one aspect the three dimensional visual output contains a width height and a depth dimension respectively representing x y and z planes. The method further includes alternate embodiments of the GPU concurrently generating one or more specific friction maps to provide haptic feedback associated with specific portions of the display image that comprise at least one portion having at least one of a different depth and a different texture than other portions of the display image. To implement a code based versus a GPU firmware based embodiment the method includes the GPU determining at block whether the display image software code includes haptic code segments which provides an indication of specific friction textures to assign to one or more rendered objects receiving within the display image software code. In response to the display image software code including haptic code segments the method includes generating the haptic map based on the received software code indications haptic code segments block . With this implementation the haptic friction map includes one or more parameter values that represent the specific friction textures to apply to a surface of each of the one or more rendered objects to enable an image interface tool and or the associated tactile output peripheral to detect the specific friction texture of each of the one or more rendered objects.

However according to one alternate embodiment if at decision block no haptic code segments are provided within the received display image software code the method comprises the GPU creating the friction map utilizing a z level function wherein an amount of friction is correlated to a closeness on a depth plane of a surface of an object within the display image relative to a background plane of the display image block . According to one implementation this aspect of the method further comprises generating the haptic map with depth height dimension parameter values which trigger an increase in a vibration intensity at one or more points of the display image in response to detection of a presence or contact of an image interface tool at a location of the display screen at which a surface of an object within the display image is visibly closer in a depth plane than a background of the display image. This aspect of the method further provides for correlating values of the depth height dimension parameters utilized for the haptic response to the depth dimension of a surface whereby an amount level of the haptic response e.g. an increase in vibration intensity correlates to a height of the surface of the object relative to the background.

According to one embodiment the method includes the GPU rendering the display image and the friction map from a same set of 3D commands received from one or more of a processor of the information handling system and a display data input source. In one or more embodiments method further includes a determination at block of whether the haptic map renders textures in addition to and or in place of depths of the display image. In response to the haptic map rendering textures the method includes providing within the haptic map one or more parameter values that represent different textures block . The different textures are applied to one or more of a surface of an object within a window and an entire window to enable an image interface tool to detect an applied texture across an entire surface of the object and the window.

Regardless of whether the haptic map is generated from specific haptic code segments or from general display image code executed by the GPU the method further comprises the GPU passing the generated friction map to the haptic friction buffer to trigger the haptic subsystem to process the generated friction map within the haptic friction buffer block . According to one implementation this aspect of the method involves placing one of the display image and the haptic map correlated to the display image into a texture buffer whose contents are passed to a haptics subsystem for mapping onto a touch haptics device block . The method then ends at end block.

Referring now to the method begins at start block and proceeds to block which indicates the haptic subsystem detecting a contact and or presence of a screen interface stylus across the display screen while an image is being presented on the screen. The method further includes the haptic subsystem retrieving a corresponding friction map from the haptic friction buffer coupled between the GPU and the haptic subsystem and which temporarily holds friction maps generated by the GPU block and applying the indicated haptic response e.g. a vibration to represent edges and surfaces of objects for the object surface visually located presented below the image interface tool that is at a higher depth dimension than the background plane of the display image or has a different texture relative to a smooth image surface block . Accordingly the information handling system comprises a haptic subsystem for generating a haptic response within at least one of the information handling system and the display screen utilizing haptic response mechanisms associated with the display device and or other tactile output peripherals and a haptic friction buffer separate from a display frame buffer. The method further includes changing via the haptic subsystem a level of haptic response feedback e.g. an intensity of the vibration based on a relative depth dimension of each point of an object over which the image interface tool passes block . Accordingly a higher object on a z plane triggers greater feedback e.g. vibration intensity than a lower object on the z plane and objects that appear closer in the display image are provided with a higher level of resistance to a detected contact or presence of the image interface tool at that location of the display screen. The method then ends at the end block.

In the above described flow charts one or more of the method processes may be embodied in a computer readable device containing computer readable code such that a series of steps are performed when the computer readable code is executed on a computing device. In some implementations certain steps of the methods are combined performed simultaneously or in a different order or perhaps omitted without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. Thus while the method steps are described and illustrated in a particular sequence use of a specific sequence of steps is not meant to imply any limitations on the disclosure. Changes may be made with regards to the sequence of steps without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. Use of a particular sequence is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present disclosure is defined only by the appended claims.

Aspects of the present disclosure are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language without limitation. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer such as a GPU or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus performs the method for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As will be further appreciated the processes in embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented using any combination of software firmware or hardware. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining software including firmware resident software micro code etc. and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable storage device s having computer readable program code embodied thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable storage device s may be utilized. The computer readable storage device may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage device would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage device may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

While the disclosure has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular system device or component thereof to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this disclosure but that the disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the disclosure. The described embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

