---

title: Protective case for mobile device with auxiliary battery and power control
abstract: A protective case for a mobile device is disclosed. The case includes an additional power source (i.e., a battery) that can supply electric current to the mobile device. A processing device within the protective case may be wirelessly connected to the mobile device, such as with a Bluetooth interface, and thereby control operational aspects of the battery case, including for example control over supplying power to the mobile device. The battery case may be part of a charging system or kit that includes a uniquely designed separate charger. In yet another aspect, the protective case may include unitary bumper flexible bumper co-molded to the body of the case and a male connector extending from a nested portion that is adapted to tilt outward from the case to facilitate insertion of the corresponding female port on the mobile device into the connector and into the case. The protective case may also include a stand in the form of dock or cradle to allow positioning and/or charging of the battery case and mobile device via external contact terminals correspondingly positioned on the outside of the case and in the cavity of the cradle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09647474&OS=09647474&RS=09647474
owner: Incipio, LLC
number: 09647474
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150102
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 924 198 filed on Jan. 6 2014 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety except for the Abstract set forth on page 51 thereof. This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 489 325 filed Jun. 5 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 390 255 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Appl. No. 61 651 981 filed May 25 2012.

This patent document relates to user removable protective enclosures or cases for mobile devices. More particularly the subject matter of this patent document relates to such cases that include auxiliary battery capacity.

Mobile devices are known to sustain damage from impact such as from a fall or being dropped by a user and from contamination such as when damaged by water or other fluid. The damage for example may result in a cracked screen scratches on a finished surface lost or damaged buttons or controls cracked or bent external body components and or failed or malfunctioning electrical components. Cases have thus been provided to protect mobile devices from such and variant types of damage.

Protective cases with integrated batteries are available. Typically such cases have a battery cell or cells within the case along with power supply terminals that are inserted into the mobile device s data and battery charging port. In certain devices the data battery charging port comprises a female USB port. In other mobile devices such as the iPhone 5 by Apple a proprietary data and charging port is used. iPhone and Apple are trademarks of Apple Inc. In either case electrical current is supplied by the internal battery of the case to the mobile device in such a way that the mobile device operates as if the current supplied is from a battery charging power supply instead of the auxiliary battery. The protective case can be arranged to have permanently installed battery cell s or can be arranged to so that the battery cell s can be user replaceable.

In certain protective cases with auxiliary batteries the user of the mobile device uses a mechanical switch to manually select which battery powers the mobile device either the internal battery of the mobile device or the auxiliary battery internal to the protective case. In other protective cases an app i.e. a software application executing on the mobile device monitors mobile device usage patterns and sends usage data including the amount of charge left in the battery in the mobile device to a processing device in the protective case. The processing device in the protective case then determines when to enable supply of current from the battery of the protective case through the data and charging port and into the mobile device for charging of the mobile device battery.

The ability of processing device of the protective case to accurately determine when to enable the supply of current from the protective case s battery to the mobile device s battery is directly related to the accuracy of the data supplied by the mobile device. Unfortunately the battery condition data e.g. the amount of charge left in the battery supplied through the data and charging port of most mobile devices including the Apple iPhone and most Android based devices is unreliable. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. When the processing device of the protective case having an auxiliary battery receives inaccurate battery condition data it can enable the supply of current either too soon or too late. Both situations are problematic. For example to obtain the maximum amount to time for using the mobile device it is desirable to delay enablement of the auxiliary battery for as long as possible since it is known that most mobile devices consume more power when run on external power supplies. Likewise if the supply of current from the auxiliary battery is delayed too long the mobile device can exhaust its battery before the auxiliary supply of current is enable thus leading to the device shutting down.

Additionally because battery cases require a male plug that connects to the female power port or connector of the mobile device conventional battery cases typically are comprised of a base portion and separate perimeter portion to facilitate insertion of the mobile device in the case. As a result it is not uncommon for the case to separate e.g. the bumper portion to dislodge or fall off when the case is dropped.

Accordingly it is here recognized that there is a need for protective cases for mobile devices that have an auxiliary battery that can supply electric current to the mobile device and where the protective case is arranged to receive accurate data regarding the condition of the mobile device s battery.

There exists a continuing need for new and improved designs for cases for mobile devices that provide protection to the mobile device while also providing displaced user control over the operation of the mobile device.

Disclosed is a unique and inventive protective case configured to receive and protect a mobile device wherein said case includes an additional power source i.e. a battery that can supply electric current to the mobile device. In one aspect a processing device within the protective case is wirelessly connected to the mobile device such as with a Bluetooth interface such as a Bluetooth low energy BLE interface. Bluetooth is a trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. While BLE may be employed to implement the connectivity between the case and the mobile device it should be understood that any suitable wireless interface is may be used including standard Bluetooth or industrial scientific and medical ISM radio bands for RF. In yet another further aspect the protective case may be formed of one or more enclosure components that individually or collectively securely surround in whole or in part the mobile device and or perimeter thereof. When formed of multiple components the components may be adapted to being connected to one another in a reversible locking connection. A unitary construction formed of a rigid component co molded to a relatively less rigid and more elastic component that forms the bumper and one or both end regions of the case is also disclosed. In yet a further aspect the protective case may also include a stand formed as a cradle or dock that receives the bottom end region of the case and supports it on end so that the case is in a generally upright position. When the case is inserted in the dock the dock can charge or power the case via an external power source connected thereto. The dock and case are provided with external charging connector pins or terminals as opposed to male and female connector plugs and ports to facilitate charging and ease of insertion and removable from the charging dock or cradle.

Each of the foregoing various aspects together with those set forth in the claims and described in connection with the embodiments of the protective cases summarized above disclosed herein may be combined to form claims for a device apparatus system methods of manufacture and or use in any way disclosed herein without limitation.

Disclosed herein is a protective case for a mobile device configured to supply auxiliary electric current to a mobile device so as to increase time the mobile device can be used before recharging is necessary. The protective case comprises a battery case for a mobile device and kit comprising the battery case rechargeable batteries a battery charger and wireless control circuitry is disclosed herein. The embodiments disclosed herein are described in the context of a battery case for an Apple iPhone mobile device because the embodiments disclosed herein have particular utility in this context. However the embodiments and inventions herein can also be applied to other types of electronic devices including but not limited to tablets PDAs e readers MP3 players such as an iPod laptops etc. iPod is a trademark of Apple Inc. 

With reference to an improved battery case for a mobile device can comprise a case . As best seen in the case generally comprises a base portion and a side protector or bumper portion . The case can be generally shaped to contain and protect a mobile device e.g. an iPhone . When placed inside of a case the mobile device desirably fits snugly although the user desirably still has access to the buttons and or touch screen of the mobile device either directly through apertures in the case or indirectly through button features included on the bumper portion or base portion . According to some embodiments the bumper portion and the base portion are attached together permanently or semi permanently to comprise a single integral unit. According to other embodiments the bumper portion and the base portion comprise a case that comprises two pieces that are releasably attached together to contain a mobile device as illustrated in the embodiment of .

As illustrated in the bumper portion can comprise a single piece forming a perimeter of the case . The bumper portion may comprise a first side or end and a second side or end opposite the first end . The bumper portion may also have a third side opposite a fourth side . The bumper may also have an inner surface and an outer surface . The bumper portion may also have a front edge . Desirably the front edge is flush or substantially flush with the screen or display of a mobile device when the mobile device is within the case. However in other embodiments the front edge extends over or overhangs at least a portion of the mobile device screen when a mobile device is inserted in case . As is shown in the bumper comprises a single side protector which is configured to protect each of the four sides of a mobile device received within the case . Alternatively however the case could have one or more separate side protector corresponding to each individual side of the mobile device or have one or more separate side protectors which wrap around the corner of the mobile device and therefore protect at least a portion of two or more sides of the mobile device.

In some embodiments the continuous bumper portion may comprise two or more pieces that connect together to form a perimeter of the case . The two or more pieces may interlock together to protect the sides of a mobile device. However in other embodiments the bumper may comprise two or more pieces that may be integral with two or more pieces of the base portion of the case. In such an embodiment the two or more pieces of the case each comprising a piece of a bumper portion and a piece of the base portion may connect to one another around a mobile device via an appropriate mechanism such as a slide and lock mechanism.

The bumper portion may include feature apertures corresponding to features on the mobile device for example the headphone inlet and the vibrate switch illustrated . Other feature apertures may be incorporated into the bumper portion to allow for access to the on off button speakers volume controls Bluetooth switch and other such features present on the mobile device. The bumper portion may also include button features corresponding to other features on the mobile device such as volume controls and sleep or on off switches illustrated . The button features may also be formed into the bumper portion to correspond to other features of the mobile device. The button features may be raised and or molded into the bumper portion as thus made of the same material of the bumper portion . However in some embodiments the button features may be made of a different material than the bumper portion or they may comprise an additional material such as rubber coated on the button features to improve tactility and use of the button features .

The bumper portion may be made of a plastic or polymeric material. In some embodiments the bumper portion is molded in a single piece and is made of a suitable material such as polycarbonate polypropylene polyvinyl chloride and the like. The bumper portion may be made by a suitable process such as injection molding. Preferably the bumper portion is made of a material that is suitably flexible to allow a mobile device to fit snugly within the bumper portion and to allow the button features to flex and contact the corresponding buttons on a mobile device without fracture. Additionally the material may be impact resistant enough to resist fracture when the case containing a mobile device is dropped from a user s hand a table a desk and similar heights onto a variety of surfaces including concrete asphalt carpet and the like. Such a height may include heights such as six feet five feet four feet three feet and the like.

Additionally the bumper portion may be made of a plastic or polymer material that can be made in a variety of hues. By providing a bumper portion that can be made in a variety of colors a user can personalize the battery case without having to purchase a new base portion which may include components that are much more expensive and or difficult to manufacture than bumper portion . In some embodiments the bumper portion may be made of a plastic or polymeric material that is red blue orange yellow green purple pink white black or a mixture of any of the above. The bumper portion in certain embodiments may also be made of a variety of materials thus allowing for further personalization of the case .

As illustrated in base portion forms the base of the case and is configured to support the mobile device and provide a base to which the bumper portion can attach. The base portion may include a thin substantially rectangular body defining a back panel adapted to form an outer surface of the case and an inside panel adapted to support and be positioned adjacent to a mobile device. The case and desirably the inside panel define a plane corresponding to the position of the back surface of the mobile device when it is positioned within the case . The base portion may further include a nested portion extending from the inside panel opposite the back panel .

In some embodiments electrical contacts may be present on the base portion of the case . The electrical contacts may be located near or on the bottom end of the base portion . In other embodiments the electrical contacts may be located elsewhere along the back panel . The electrical contacts may be configured to connect to a charging device.

A data or charging device may comprise any device that may transfer power from a power source to the case and or charger . In some embodiments the charging device may be a charging and or data cable such as charging cable .

In other embodiments the charging device may include a charging cradle in addition to or instead of a charging cable . A charging cradle may include a base that may include a concave surface shaped to fit a case . The concave surface may also assist in holding a case alone or a case containing a mobile device upright. The charging cradle in some embodiments may also be able to charge the charger . In some embodiments the base may be relatively planar and the case may be laid flat upon the base. The charging cradle may also include one or more leads that may transmit power to corresponding contacts on the case or charger when the contacts are touching the leads . The base may also include a plug or port or means to provide power to the base . In some embodiments the charging cradle may include a port configured to plug into the case to provide power to charge the case with or without a mobile device contained therein.

A charging cradle may be configured to charge the case with or without a rechargeable battery contained therein and with or without a mobile device. The charging cradle may be able to charge any piece of the mobile device assembly inductively or conductively.

The base portion may further comprise a feature opening or window shaped to allow a view of a feature located on the rear of the mobile device such as a camera lens illustrated . According to some embodiments a camera lens insert A may be inserted into the feature opening . Such insert may protect the case from scratching the surface of a mobile device contained within the case. The base portion also may define a battery aperture shaped to contain a rechargeable battery . Electrical components not illustrated may also be contained within the base portion . The nested portion may extend above the inside panel so as to be flush or substantially flush with the outer edge of the bumper portion . In some embodiments substantially flush may mean that the nested portion extends above or below the bumper portion a distance of about 1 mm 2 mm 3 mm and the like. The nested portion may comprise a plug and controls . The inside panel and bumper portion when the case is assembled may form an inner portion containing the nested portion inside panel of the base portion and the inner side of the bumper portion . The inside panel may be attached to the back panel by a suitable adhesive such as an epoxy or acrylic.

Electrical components which may be contained within the nested portion may comprise such components as wires printed circuit boards capacitors resistors and the like. The electrical components may transfer the charge from the battery when placed in the battery aperture to a mobile device connected to the plug . The controls may also operate the electrical components. The electrical components may also allow the battery to be charged when placed in the battery aperture in the case when a charging cable is inserted into the inlet and connected to a power source such as a computer or a power outlet. Additional circuitry allowing accurate exchange of information e.g. battery condition information between the battery case and the mobile device are shown in and discussed below.

The charging and or data cable may have a male connector at one end configured to be inserted into the case another male connector at the other end shaped to connect to a power source and a wire joining the connectors . The charging and or data cable may be capable of transferring power and or data between a power source and or computer and a case.

The charging cable may be any type of cable having any number of wires that can electronically connect the case to a computer or power source. In one embodiment the cable is a USB cable e.g. a USB 2.0 cable where male connector is a USB mini A plug and male connector is a USB type B plug. The charging cable may allow rechargeable battery an internal battery of a mobile device or both to be charged by a computer and or power source. In some embodiments when the charging cable connects the case to a computer the mobile device and the computer may be synchronized or synched. In such embodiments the cable may be configured to transfer data from the mobile device contained within the case to a computer and or from a computer to the mobile device contained within the case.

The cable in some embodiments may be able to charge an internal battery within the case a rechargeable battery positioned within the case or a mobile device placed inside of the case. In some embodiments the charging cable may be able to charge a mobile device within a case even though no rechargeable battery is present in the case.

In some embodiments a headphone adapter may be provided in the kit described above. The headphone adapter may be generally configured to connect a headphone jack that is too large e.g. has too large of a circumference to fit through the opening in the case to properly connect within the headphone inlet of a mobile device to a headphone jack inlet on a mobile device when the mobile device is within the case . The headphone adapter may have a female end connected to a male end by a connecting wire . In use a user may plug a headphone jack not pictured into the female end and then the user may plug the male end into the mobile device. The user may plug a distal end of the male end through the headphone aperture and into a device within the case as illustrated in . Once connected the headphone adapter can transmit sound from the mobile device through the adapter to the headphones. In an embodiment no external wire such as connecting wire connects the male and female ends. In such an embodiment the female end and male end are externally directly connected to one another.

As shown in the embodiment of the battery aperture may be shaped to contain a rechargeable battery and located on the inside panel of the base portion . The battery aperture may comprise a detent shaped in a semi hemispherical fashion to allow a user to easily remove a battery from the battery aperture . The battery aperture may also comprise conductors such as leads or prongs to allow a battery when placed in the case to transfer electrical charge to the electrical components within the base portion not illustrated . The prongs may also provide additional pressure to the battery when placed in the battery aperture to assist in keeping the battery in place in the base portion .

As illustrated in the embodiment of the battery may be shaped generally rectangular to fit in the battery aperture . The battery may have a top end a bottom end a left side and a right side . Electrical connectors may be disposed on the bottom end and be located on the bottom end to correspond with the prongs in the battery aperture . This may allow for an electrical charge to transmit between the battery and the electrical components. The battery may have a thickness t. The thickness t may be roughly the same as the height of the battery aperture. Hence when the battery is in place in the battery aperture a mobile device when placed in the case lies flat. In some embodiments the thickness t may be slightly less than the height of the battery aperture hence still allowing the mobile device when placed in the case to lie flat.

Desirably the thickness t of the battery is in the range of between 2 mm or about 2 mm and 12 mm or about 12 mm thick. According to other embodiments the thickness t is in the range of between 3 mm or about 3 mm and 10 mm or about 10 mm between 3 mm or about 3 mm and 7 mm or about 7 mm between 6 mm or about 6 mm and 9 mm or about 9 mm or between 7 mm or about 7 mm and 8 mm or about 8 mm . Desirably the thickness t of the battery is less than 13 mm or about 13 mm less than 10 mm or about 10 mm less than 8 mm or about 8 mm less than 7 mm or about 7 mm less than 6 mm or about 6 mm or less than 5 mm or about 5 mm .

The battery may comprise any suitable preferably rechargeable battery. The battery may be able to hold 3.7 V or 1700 mAh of charge 1600 mAh of charge and the like. Such batteries may include a lithium ion battery. In other embodiments the battery may be nickel cadmium nickel metal hydride lithium ion polymer lithium polymer lead acid or any other type of rechargeable battery. In some embodiments the battery may be disposable. The battery may be advantageously shaped to fit within the battery aperture . The battery may comprise one or more batteries for example two batteries three batteries ten batteries or however many a user may possess.

While the illustrated embodiment in shows the battery aperture located roughly in the center of the inside panel of the base portion in other embodiments the battery aperture may be located on any portion of the inside panel of the base portion e.g. near the top bottom left hand side right hand side and the like. According to other embodiments the battery aperture may be located on the back panel of the base portion . In such embodiments the battery aperture may be covered by a door that may be opened by a user by pressure or by pressing a button located on the base portion .

The plug may extend from the nested portion and be adapted to be inserted into the port jack of a mobile device. The plug may be able to communicate electronically with a mobile device and deliver charge to a mobile device from the case containing a battery containing at least a partial charge and which can power the mobile device and or charge the battery . In some embodiments the plug may also be configured to send data to and receive data from a mobile device.

The controls of the nested portion may allow a user to turn the battery case on or off and or check the charge level of the rechargeable battery when inside of the case . The charge level may be indicated by lights such as LED lights located inside and visible on the surface of the nested portion . The controls may also comprise a light that illuminates when the case is on and is providing charge to a mobile device or if the charge level is being tested. The light corresponding to the controls may turn off when the case is not being used to provide charge to a mobile device such as when the user presses the control to turn the power off or when the case runs out of battery energy or if there is no battery within the battery aperture .

As shown in the nested portion may also comprise an inlet . The inlet may correspond to or receive a charging cable that may be used to charge the battery when contained in the battery aperture without removing the battery from the case . The charging cable may be configured to plug into a power source for example a computer or laptop device a car outlet a power outlet and the like.

Also as illustrated in the nested portion may comprise a speaker aperture that may correspond to the speaker of a mobile device. The speaker aperture may allow access to the speaker of the mobile device so that the user may listen to music or audio from a mobile device without the case obstructing the sound. In some embodiments not illustrated the base portion may comprise more than one speaker aperture in different locations corresponding to the speaker location on the mobile device.

In some embodiments the back panel is made of a lighter plastic or polymeric material than the inside panel that reduces the total weight of the case . Additionally the material may be impact resistant enough to resist fracture when the case containing a mobile device is dropped from a user s hand a table a desk and similar heights onto a variety of surfaces including concrete asphalt carpet and the like. Such a height may include heights such as six feet five feet four feet three feet and the like. The material may also exhibit beneficial properties such as scratch resistance modulus and the like.

As illustrated in the inside panel may extend above the back panel forming a peripheral flange . As is illustrated in the peripheral flange may include one or more tabs and recesses corresponding to tabs and recesses on the bumper portion . The base portion and the bumper portion of the case then may be attached to one another by aligning the bumper portion with the base portion and applying pressure to force the corresponding tabs and recesses on the bumper portion and base portion to interlock with one another and snap into place. To remove the bumper portion from the base portion a user may flex the bumper portion so that one or more of the corresponding recesses and tabs detach from one another allowing the bumper portion to release from the base portion .

In some embodiments only one of the bumper portion or the base portion may comprise tabs or recesses. According to one embodiment the bumper portion may comprise a single uniform tab extending inwardly around the perimeter of the inner surface and the base portion comprises a uniform recess extending inwardly around the perimeter of the peripheral flange that receives the uniform tab of the bumper portion.

The bumper portion and the base portion may be designed with a system of tabs and inlets or indents that securely fit the two pieces together in place to prevent separation of the bumper portion from the base portion when the assembled case is dropped from a user s hand a table a desk and similar heights onto a variety of surfaces including concrete asphalt carpet and the like. Such a height may include heights such as six feet five feet four feet three feet and the like. According to some embodiments this configuration allows the bumper portion and the base portion to stay attached to one another both when a mobile device is contained within the assembled case and when a mobile device is not contained within the assembled case.

As illustrated by the embodiment in a user may insert a rechargeable battery and mobile device into the case to provide extra electrical charge to the mobile device to charge an internal battery in a mobile device. As shown in first a rechargeable battery holding at least a partial charge is inserted into the battery aperture in the base portion . Then as shown in the user may attach a mobile device to the base portion by connecting a mobile device to the plug . Then as shown in the user may attach the bumper portion to the base portion by aligning the bumper portion with the base portion and applying pressure to force the corresponding tabs and recesses on the bumper portion and base portion to interlock with one another and snap into place thus securing a mobile device within the case . As shown by when a user turns on the case by depressing the controls not shown the mobile device may display an indicator on its screen to confirm that an electrical charge is being provided to the mobile device through the case.

When a mobile device is within the assembled case the bumper portion may extend around the sides of a mobile device. The inner side of the bumper portion may contact a mobile device. The nested portion may contact a bottom edge of a mobile device. The inside panel of the base portion may contact or partially contact a back side of a mobile device. A portion of the bumper portion may extend partially over a front side of a mobile device to help secure a mobile device in the case . The front of a mobile device may comprise the display of a mobile device a keyboard a rollerball a control pad a touch screen for example in and the like.

As illustrated in desirably the bumper portion desirably surrounds each of the sides of the four corners of the mobile device. Desirably the bumper portion surrounds each of the ends and sides of the mobile device. Desirably the bumper portion substantially covers each of the sides of the four corners of the mobile device. Desirably the bumper portion substantially covers each of the ends and sides of the mobile device.

As is illustrated in the charger may be shaped in a generally rectangular fashion. However in other non illustrated embodiments the charger may be generally circular triangular or any other suitable geometric shape.

The charger may define a battery aperture shaped to contain a rechargeable battery . The battery aperture may comprise a detent shaped in a semi hemispherical fashion to allow a user to easily remove a battery from the battery aperture . The charger may also comprise an inlet . The inlet may correspond to a charging device such as cable in that may be used to charge the battery when the battery is placed in the battery aperture . LED light located on the front face of the case may become illuminated when the charger is connected to a power source by the charging cable. The charging cable may be configured to plug into a power source for example a computer or laptop device a car outlet a power outlet and the like. The charging cable may be of the same type disclosed above.

According to some embodiments the charger comprises a mount instead of an aperture shaped like the battery . The mount may comprise metal prongs to transfer power from a charger to the battery attached to the mount. A mount may support the battery in the charger but without surrounding the battery on all four sides as the embodiment illustrated in .

As illustrated in the charger may also comprise conductors such as leads or prongs . The prongs may extend from an end wall defining the battery aperture and allow an electrical charge to be transferred to a battery when placed in the charger when a charging cable is connected to the inlet and a power source. The prongs may also provide additional pressure to the battery when placed in the battery aperture to assist in keeping the battery in place in the charger . The prongs may also transfer electrical charge from the battery in the charger when the charger is unplugged from a power source.

In some embodiments the charger may comprise an additional port that may be used to transfer power from a battery in the charger when the battery contains a charge to another power receiving entity. In some embodiments the port may comprise an USB port. Thus in some embodiments containing the additional port the charger may also transfer power from a battery within the charger containing a charge to charge a laptop tablet PDA e reader mp3 player such as an iPod or any other suitable electronic device. According to some embodiments the charger may also comprise an aperture shaped to form a negative impression of a data port.

According to an embodiment a charger may be able to discharge power from a rechargeable battery contained within to the case when a port on the charger is inserted into the inlet .

In an embodiment the charger may have an insert configured to receive either a micro USB end or a USB end or any end of a charging cable. In such an embodiment one charging cable may be used to connect the charger to a power source and a different charging cable inserted in the insert may be connected to the inlet of a case. This configuration may allow for a rechargeable battery contained within the charger the case and or a mobile device contained within the case and or a rechargeable battery contained within the case to all be charged at the same time. In such an embodiment the power source charges the charger which in turn charges the case which in turn charges a rechargeable battery contained within the case and or a mobile device contained within the case.

In some embodiments as illustrated in the embodiments of when the charger is positioned inside of the case the charger does not extend above at least one and preferably above any vertically extending side of the case. This may mean that the charger is flush with the bumper portion or that when placed against the inner surface of the case the charger does not extend as high vertically as the bumper portion.

In some embodiments a battery may also be stored in the battery aperture of the charger when it is placed in the case . According to other embodiments a rechargeable battery may be placed in a battery aperture of the case not illustrated when the charger is placed in the case. According to yet other embodiments a rechargeable battery may be placed in the battery aperture of the charger and a different rechargeable battery may be placed in the battery aperture of the case . Thus a kit according to an embodiment may be able to store up to at least two rechargeable batteries and the charger in the space of the case itself.

The charger s compact design and ability to fit within the case allows for the kit described in aforementioned embodiments to travel easily. The compact kit may be able to fit into backpacks luggage purses pockets and the like for easy travel. Also the ability for the pieces of the kit to fit within one another lessens the likelihood that the pieces of the kit will become separated from one another in a large bag or purse. According to some embodiments the charger has a polymeric coating on the back of the charger that prevents the charger from slipping when placed in the case. This coating in some embodiments may also help adhere the charger to the case when a user is traveling so that the components of the kit are more likely to stay together.

The kit according to some embodiments also has the ability to provide a continuous stream of power to a mobile device over an extended period of time. According to one method a user may charge a rechargeable battery using the charger while a mobile device is inserted into the case where an already charged rechargeable battery has already been inserted into the case. The user may use the controls to transfer power to the mobile device when needed e.g. when the mobile device runs out of its own internal battery . Once the rechargeable battery inside the case has drained a user may remove the mobile device remove the drained battery replace the drained battery in the battery aperture of the case with the rechargeable battery containing at least a partial charge replace the mobile device in the case then use the controls when necessary to provide additional charge to the mobile device. The drained battery may be inserted into the charger which may be then connected to a power source to restore charge to the rechargeable battery. In some embodiments several pre charged rechargeable batteries may be carried by the user so that a recharging step is unnecessary.

By cycling draining and charging rechargeable batteries within the case and charger respectively a user can keep their mobile device on and or functioning for extending periods of time without having to plug either the phone or the case into a power source. This is beneficial for circumstances where a user may have limited or no access to a power supply e.g. on a long flight or train ride at an airport or train station on a long car ride when travelling in the wilderness and the like.

As shown in the embodiment illustrated in a system may comprise a case and a charger configured to attach to the interior of the case . The system may also include one or more rechargeable batteries . According to some embodiments the case charger and or at least one rechargeable battery encompass the features discussed in the embodiments of cases chargers and rechargeable batteries discussed in embodiments above. The embodiment of shows the charger attached to the case . The charger may have a recess defining a negative relief image of a protrusion in the case . In some embodiments the recess may be shaped to receive a data port protrusion. In other embodiments the recess may be shaped to receive a protrusion that has been pre formed into the base portion or the bumper portion of the case.

According to some embodiments the charger further comprises a mechanism such as a latch in the recess to further guarantee that the charger will not come separated from the case when they are connected to one another during travel. In some embodiments the charger comprises a button connected to the latch that the user can press to release the latch and the charger from the case after the charger has been connected to the case.

Electrical current that is received on the power supply rails of port is supplied to a DC DC switch and a battery charging device . When the battery case has a charging cable inserted into port and the mobile device is in an active state i.e. powered up a current sensor determines the amount of current being drawn by the mobile device. When the mobile device is drawing a relatively large amount of current over approximately 800 mA in the case of an iPhone the current sensor sends an indication to DC DC switch that the mobile device is in need of a charge. In such a high current draw situation DC DC switch will direct most of the current received through port to the appropriate pins on the connector that is inserted into the mobile device. In the embodiment illustrated in connector that is inserted into the mobile device is a Lightning connector used in Apple iPhone mobile devices but other types of connectors are contemplated and should be selected by determining which type of charging and data connector is used by the mobile device that will be used with the battery case . Lightning is a trademark of Apple Inc. 

Should the current sensor determine that the mobile device is drawing a relatively low amount of electrical current DC DC switch significantly reduces the amount of current being input to the mobile device and instead directs the current to battery charging device . In one embodiment battery charging device can be a linear single cell lithium ion battery charger integrated circuit. Battery charging device in turn supplies electrical current to the battery resulting in charging of battery . Thus when battery case is connected to source of electric current through charging cable current is always supplied to the connected mobile device and when the mobile device is drawing a reduced amount of current indicative of a charged battery battery of battery case is then charged. Control circuitry also comprises a microcontroller which controls battery charging device .

When charging cable is removed the mobile device will draw current from its internal battery. As the mobile device draws this current its internal battery will lose its charge and eventually become exhausted. In addition to protecting the mobile device from impacts and the like battery case provides an advantage of being able to supply electric current to the mobile device when internal battery of the mobile device becomes exhausted or close to exhausted. A problem with prior battery cases is that there was not a reliable manner in which to communicate battery conditions from the mobile device to the battery case such that the battery case would start charging the internal battery of the mobile device. Certain battery cases relied solely on user intervention i.e. when a user determined that the internal battery of the mobile device was exhausted such user could enable a switch on the case that would manually enable supply of current from the battery of the battery case to the mobile device. This is not an optimal solution.

Another means of providing mobile device battery condition information to the battery case could be by sending battery condition data from the mobile device through its charge and sync port to the battery case. This solution is also not effective because battery condition data sent through charge and sync ports on mobile devices is not reliable and regardless required processing devices of the battery case to interpret such data. Inaccurate information is problematic since the battery case might not select a proper time to start current supply. Moreover for various reasons including cost it is desirable to use simple microcontrollers with limited processing abilities. Use of a processing device internally to the battery case that is low cost might be unable to perform the calculations to determine when to start supplying current to the mobile device. Because of this the presently described battery case utilizes a wireless solution that transmits information indicating when to start supplying current to the mobile device through radiofrequency signals that can be exchanged between the mobile device and the battery case.

In a presently preferred embodiment communication of battery condition information is transmitted by the mobile device to control circuitry using radiofrequency signals conforming to the Bluetooth Low Energy standard. Thus control circuitry of battery case comprises a Bluetooth module . Bluetooth enabled devices such as mobile devices are capable of being paired with peripherals that conform to the Bluetooth standard. The resulting link between paired devices is often referred to a peer to peer network. Thus the wireless link formed between Bluetooth module of battery case and the mobile device inserted into battery case is a peer to peer network.

Many mobile devices allow installation of software applications sometimes referred to as apps that can run on a mobile device. The battery case described herein can be used with a mobile device running a software application that is able to obtain accurate information regarding the condition of the internal battery of the mobile device e.g. the level of charge remaining in the internal battery by interfacing with one or more application programming interface s API s of the mobile device s operating system. Moreover the software application can interface with the Bluetooth module of the mobile device through appropriate APIs to transmit such battery condition information from the mobile device to the control circuitry of battery case .

Referring to Bluetooth module which includes any necessary antenna radiofrequency devices control circuitry and input output resources has connected thereto a reset switch . Reset switch can be used for at least two functions. The first purpose of reset switch is to allow a user to pair the mobile device to be used and the battery case . The manner in which Bluetooth devices are paired is known and will not be discussed further. Reset switch can also be used to restart Bluetooth module should there be a system crash or other issue that renders the battery case non responsive.

Bluetooth module is in electrical communication with a microcontroller . When microcontroller is active no current is being supplied to battery case via charging cable . Microcontroller controls the various circuitry of control circuitry as follows. Software application running on the mobile device preferably operates as a background process. While running the software application obtains information regarding the condition of the battery internal to the mobile device that is available e.g. through APIs in the operating system. Such information typically is comprised of the amount of charge remaining on the mobile device s internal battery although other information can also be collected as well. When the level of charge stored in the battery of the mobile device falls below a certain predetermined threshold the software application may determine that the battery of the mobile device needs to be charged. When the software application makes this determination it causes the Bluetooth module of the mobile device to send appropriate signals over the Bluetooth piconet to the Bluetooth module of the battery case . These instructions are typically communicated from the software application via Bluetooth APIs of the operating system of the mobile device. Bluetooth module communicates this information to microcontroller .

Microcontroller is active when battery case is turned on by a user via controls and battery case is not connected to a source of electrical current i.e. when battery case is not connected to a charging cable . When this set of conditions is met microcontroller is powered by battery and microcontroller monitors Bluetooth module for receipt of any indication that the internal battery of the mobile device needs to be charged. When Bluetooth module receives appropriate battery condition information e.g. an indication that the internal battery of the mobile device needs to be charged such information is received by microcontroller . Microcontroller then sends appropriate signals to a DC DC converter to begin supply of current from battery to the appropriate pins on the connector . Should the supply voltage of the battery be lower than the charging voltage of the mobile device DC DC converter can be a step up converter which will increase the output voltage of battery case to the appropriate voltage.

The software application or app running on the mobile device can operate as follows. The app to the protective case via Bluetooth Low Energy and acts as an automatic trigger for the case turning on the backup battery to begin recharging the phone. The app also acts as a battery monitor for the mobile device inserted into the protective case measuring the current battery life and estimating remaining time to perform many common tasks browsing web using Wi Fi talk time gaming etc. . The app tracks usage over time with a user login graph view and history kept in a digital calendar. Users can store their daily battery usage and develop a trend which when working in tandem with cloud storage servers can help cater a battery experience best for each user depending on how they use their phone. Moreover the cloud storage servers can send push notifications to users encouraging them to purchase a new case when their battery life cycle has hit its end.

Upon starting the app a splash screen can be displayed on the screen of the mobile device. The logic of the app is as follows 

Communication protocol of Bluetooth is as follows. When the cellphone battery voltage is low the App application software of cellphone transfers a series of data to the Bluetooth module. The data format is as following NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. When the backup power receives the correct data MCU turns on the discharging circuit.

As best illustrated in the battery charger includes left side wall and right side wall each of which are defined by inner and outer surfaces and . The battery charger also includes top side wall defined by inner and outer surfaces . The battery charger also includes bottom side wall defined by outer surface . Displaced from outer surface is an inner surface . Together inner surfaces and define a battery cavity that is sized to hold two separate battery cells .

Between outer surface of bottom side wall and inner surface is a nested portion . Nested portion is a flat surface extending from outer surface of bottom side wall and inner surface that can contain electrical circuitry for use in the battery charger. Nested portion can define a power switch aperture through which a power switch can extend therethrough. Nested portion can further define status lighting apertures through which status lights can extent therethrough. Status lights and are preferably light emitting diodes LEDs and are used to indicate the status of each battery placed in charger . For example each status light and might emit a specific color depending on the state of charge of a battery inserted into the position corresponding to that light. For example a red color could indicate that the battery installed in the charging position corresponding to that status light is charging while a green color could indicate a full charge. Likewise flashing status lights and could be used to indicate battery status.

To facilitate charging of separate battery cells and charging leads placed within the battery cavity in a position that allows each to independently make electrical contract with corresponding charging leads located on a respective one of the battery cells . In one embodiment charging leads and of battery charger are displaced from each other so that charging lead is in close proximity to the inner surface of left side wall while charging least is in close proximity to the inner surface of right side wall . Such an arrangement allows for insertion of batteries such that the respective charging leads and of the separate battery cells and are at opposing side walls and of the charger . This allows for easier insertion and removal of battery cells and as well as reducing the possibility that charging lead of battery will contact the charging lead for battery cell during insertion or removal. Since battery cell will be in a lower position in the battery cavity than will battery inadvertent contact between charging leads of the battery charger and charging lead of battery would be possible if charging leads and were in vertical alignment with each other and such contact would be highly undesirable.

The circuitry used to control charging of battery cells and can be placed on a lower printed circuit board and an upper printed circuit board located within the space defined by the nested portion . In the embodiment illustrated in status lights and are installed on upper printed circuit board so that each can extend through status lighting apertures respectively. Power button and associated circuitry and switches are also installed on upper printed circuit board so that power button extends through power button aperture . Likewise charging lead is placed on lower printed circuit board while charging lead is placed on upper printed circuit board . Each charging lead and is arranged so that the terminals thereon extend into the charging cavity.

Battery charger can be constructed so that its housing is assembled from several molded plastic parts. Housing can be constructed of a main housing that defines left side wall as well as inner and outer surfaces right side wall as well as inner and outer surfaces top side wall as well as inner and outer surfaces and bottom side wall as well as outer surface and inner surface . A flat base suitable for resting on a flat surface can be affixed to housing in any manner deemed appropriate. A shield can be sandwiched between the flat base and the housing . Housing shield and flat base can be joined using various methods include adhesives screws and heat.

Housing includes a USB aperture though which a connector can pass therethrough. In one embodiment connector is a USB connector and can be placed on lower printed circuit board . Connector can receive a charging cable not shown that can supply charging current to external devices that are cable of being charged via connector for example a USB port . Thus when battery cells and or only one of them is placed in the charger a user can charge an additional mobile device. Batteries and preferably have the same form factor as battery that can be installed in protective case . Thus battery charger can be used to charge two battery cells and . Once battery cells and are charged one of those battery cells e.g. battery cell can be inserted into battery aperture of battery case while the second battery cell e.g. battery cell can be left in battery charger . A user could then connect a mobile device though a charging cable e.g. charging cable to connector and use the charge stored in battery cell to charge the connected mobile device.

First charging circuit receives charging current from port and inputs this current into a battery charging device . In one embodiment battery charging device is a linear single cell lithium ion battery charging device. Battery charging device controls the charging current sent to battery cell . Battery cell is coupled to transistors . Second charging circuit also receives charging current from port and inputs this current into a battery charging device . In one embodiment battery charging device is a linear single cell lithium ion battery charging device. Battery charging device controls the charging current sent to battery cell . Battery cell is coupled to transistors .

Charging and control circuitry further includes a microcontroller . Microcontroller can independently control the charging of battery cells and and is coupled to transistors which enables such control. Microcontroller is also coupled to an on off switch that controls battery charger . Various combinations of button actuations can be used to control charger . For example a single actuation could either turn the charger on or off depending on the state of charger . Actuation and maintaining actuation of the on off switch could also be used to select a specific one of the battery cells for charging or could be used to enable charging of an external device as will be discussed below. Microcontroller also controls illumination of LEDs .

Microcontroller enables charging of battery cells and with various logic. For example with both battery cells and placed in charger microcontroller can charge both at the same rate. Alternatively charger can prioritize charging of one battery of the other. For example a user may prefer to have battery cell which is placed at the upper position of charger to be charged first. Microcontroller can thus be programmed to prioritize battery cell directing most or all of charging current to that particular battery cell.

In an embodiment of charger charging circuit is coupled to an external device charging circuit . External device charging circuit comprises a DC DC step up converter that receives current from battery through transistors . DC DC step up converter steps the output voltage of battery up to the proper voltage needed to power an external device connected to port through a charging cable . Microcontroller can enable DC DC step up converter to allow supply of power to a connected external device.

The battery charger can also contain a wireless module not shown that can communicate with a corresponding wireless module on a mobile device. The app connects to the battery charger via a wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy and monitors the battery life on the bank. The app can calculate the approximate time to discharge and recharge for the battery bank i.e. if it s connected and discharging how many hours min are remaining vs. if it s charging from a wall outlet how many hours min are remaining to full charge . The app also acts as a remote control activating and deactivating the individual ports on the case and has an alert Find Me button to sound a beep on the case to locate it when lost.

Upon starting the app a splash screen can be displayed on the screen of the mobile device. is an exemplary primary battery status view. It is also where the remote battery connection is setup. The logic of the app is as follows 

When the Portable Power is charging MCU transfers current battery capacity usage cycles and remaining charging time hour minutes to BLE and then BLE transfers these data to APP. Following is an exemplary data format NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. Each byte is definitely defined in the following table.

When the Portable Power is discharging MCU transfers current battery capacity usage cycles and remaining discharging time hour minutes to BLE and then BLE transfers these data to APP. Following is an exemplary data format NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. Each byte is definitely defined in the following table.

To search battery cellphone App software transfers a series data to BLE. Following is an exemplary data format NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. Each byte is definitely defined in the following table.

The user press the 2.4 amperes button first App software transfers a batch of data to BLE. Data. Following is an exemplary data format NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. Each byte is definitely defined in the following table 

The user press the 2.4 amperes button second App software transfers a batch of data to BLE. Following is an exemplary data format NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. Each byte is definitely defined in the following table.

The user press the 1 ampere button first App software transfers a batch of data to BLE. Following is an exemplary data format NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. Each byte is definitely defined in the following table.

The user press the 1 ampere button second App software transfers a batch of data to BLE. Following is an exemplary data format NUMBER CMD DIRECTION DATA DATA DATA DATA DATA CHK. Each byte is definitely defined in the following table.

As previously summarized is a perspective view of an implementation of a battery case and a battery case dock configured for an Apple iPhone which is depicted as being housed therein. and are illustrations of the battery case thereof and are illustrations of the dock . The battery case can employ the same circuitry described above in connection with . The circuitry employed may include the wireless module described above to control current supply from the battery case to the mobile device. Alternatively the battery case may employ circuitry that does not include such a wireless module and relies on user intervention to trigger charging of the internal batter of the mobile device as previously described. The various features depicted in are described with additional detail below.

As depicted in the battery case is configured externally to fit and mate within the cavity formed in the upper surface of the dock . The dock is comprised of a housing that defines the upper surface and the opposing lower surface which includes non slip grip foot pads . The cavity is shaped to conform with the outer contour of the bottom end region of the case with the mobile device contained therein . Once inserted the dock supports the battery case and mobile device therein on end in an upright position so that the touchscreen on the mobile device is generally perpendicular to the supporting surface e.g. desk ith a slight upward tilt. Thus when the lower surface of the dock is resting on a desk the touchscreen of the mobile device is configured to be in a readily visible orientation to a user sitting at the desk.

When the case is received within the dock the dock also serves to charge or supply power to the case . Power from an external power source not shown is transferred via a cable also not shown that is plugged into a port or connector on the docke as best illustrated in and transferred therefrom through an electrical connection extending from the connector to spring loaded depressible charging pins and positioned on the external surface of the bottom of the cavity as best illustrated in . As illustrated in a corresponding set of charging contact pins plates and are positioned on the bottom end region of the battery case in locations configured to be in contact with the depressible charging pins and when the battery case is inserted or seated in the dock .

The electrical circuit that carries the current from the connector to spring loaded depressible charging pins and may be a simple pass through connection that is comprised of two wires or conductors that extend from the power rails of the connector to the charging pins and . The charging pins plates and on the case may be electrically connected to circuit illustrated in and described above via electrical connections to the power rails of connector so that current may flow to circuit from the external power source connected to the dock .

Referring to the battery case is comprised of bottom end region that extends to a top end region and a mid region that resides there between. The three regions define a curved back surface an integral bumper that extends around and defines the perimeter of the case with the internal surface of the bumper being dimensioned to be in contact with the external perimeter surfaces of the mobile device when the device is inserted in the case . The bumper includes an inwardly protruding rim or lip that is configured to extend over the front face of the mobile device to retain the device in the case . The back surface is comprised of a rigid panel component that is co molded to a more elastic and less rigid housing component that forms the top end and bottom end regions and and the bumper . The relatively more rigid panel component may be formed of a relatively rigid or reinforced polymer or plastic such as a polycarbonate or carbon fiber reinforced plastic. The rigid panel component may be formed of metal or wood or some other suitably rigid material. The relatively less rigid and more elastic component may be formed of silicone or some other rubber like material or polymer. The two components and are co molded together to form a unitary structure or housing that defines an open cavity that houses the rechargeable battery and the PCB illustrated in that contains the circuitry described above in connection with .

Once the housing is formed and the rechargeable battery and circuitry is incorporated into the cavity a separately formed cover plate which includes a nested portion is positioned over the cavity and mechanically attached by clip or snap connections that extend longitudinally along the inner surfaces of the rigid panel and cover plate . One or more screws received within threaded holes in the rigid panel may also be employed. The cover plate may be permanently attached to the housing components and or removably attached thereto to provide access to the circuitry and or rechargeable battery . The cover plate may be formed of a material that is more rigid than the elastic component . It can be formed of a material that is as rigid or more rigid than the rigid component . The case like the cases previously described include buttons and ports and to correspond with and engage corresponding buttons and or ports on the mobile device.

In operation the flexible bumper and top end region that is formed by the relatively less rigid and more elastic component allow flexibility so that the user can elastically deform the case including the bumper to insert or slip the phone or mobile device into the fully assembled battery case . Once inserted the deformed regions return to the original position to support the mobile device. At the same time the co molded rigid panel component provides structural rigidity and impact resistance to protect the circuitry and battery housed within the case .

As bested depicted in the exploded view in The nested portion in case may be mechanically hinged to the cover plate with hinge pins to allow the nested portion to pivot or hinge outwardly at its bottom end away from the outer surface of the cover plate . The hinging of the nested portion can further ease insertion of the mobile device into the plug e.g. the lightening connector . Thus in use the user can hinge outwardly the nested portion plug the mobile device into the lightening connector then push the nested portion back into the case and slip the perimeter of the mobile device past the lip region of the bumper by deforming the more elastic component that forms that region and the entirety of the top end region. Once inserted in the case the internal surfaces of the bumper and rim thereof and the external surface of the cover plate firmly and snugly encase and retain the mobile device within the case .

An elegant solution is thereby provided to facilitate user insertion retention and removal of a mobile device into a form fitting battery case having a unitary construction that includes an integrally molded bumper that extends around the entire perimeter of the case . Such a construction is capable of avoiding disassembly and maintaining protection when the case and mobile device retained therein are accidentally dropped.

Although the various inventive aspects are herein disclosed in the context of certain preferred embodiments implementations and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses of the invention and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. In addition while a number of variations of the inventive aspects have been shown and described in detail other modifications which are within their scope will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art based upon this disclosure. It should be also understood that the scope this disclosure includes the various combinations or sub combinations of the specific features and aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein such that the various features modes of implementation and aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be combined with or substituted for one another. Thus it is intended that the scope of the present invention herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments or implementations described above but should be determined only by a fair reading of the claims.

Similarly this method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that any claim require more features than are expressly recited in that claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in a combination of fewer than all features of any single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

