---

title: Cloud-based platform integrating point of sale devices of different types and/or formats
abstract: A device may receive information regarding a product order via a web portal. The product order may relate to a take-out or delivery of a food product. The device may identify a store location associated with fulfilling the product order. The device may select a store configuration, from a set of store configurations associated with a set of store locations, for the store location associated with fulfilling the product order based on identifying the store location. The device may perform, based on information associated with the particular type of POS device, one or more data conversions on data identifying the product order to generate a converted product order. The converted product order may be associated with a format compatible with the particular type of POS device. The device may store the converted product order in a queue associated with the store location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595061&OS=09595061&RS=09595061
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 09595061
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20151125
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 196 767 filed on Jul. 24 2015 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A point of sale device may be utilized at a store location for processing a purchase at the store location. For example a point of sale device may process a credit card transaction as payment for the purchase. Different point of sale devices may utilize different information formats. For example a first point of sale device produced by a first vendor may utilize a first information format associated with the first vendor and a second point of sale device produced by a second vendor may utilize a second information format associated with the second vendor.

According to some possible implementations a device may include one or more processors. The device may receive information regarding a product order via a web portal. The product order may relate to a take out or delivery of a food product. The product order may be associated with a particular order format associated with the web portal. The device may identify a store location associated with fulfilling the product order. The store location may utilize a particular type of point of sale POS device for managing product orders. The device may select a store configuration from a set of store configurations associated with a set of store locations for the store location associated with fulfilling the product order based on identifying the store location. The store configuration may specify information associated with the particular type of POS device. The device may perform based on information associated with the particular type of POS device one or more data conversions on data identifying the product order to generate a converted product order. The converted product order may be associated with a format compatible with the particular type of POS device. The device may store the converted product order in a queue associated with the store location.

According to some possible implementations a computer readable medium may store one or more instructions that when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to receive a message identifying a product order. The product order may be intended for fulfillment by a store location. The store location may be associated with a point of sale POS device. The store location may be one of a plurality of store locations associated with two or more types of POS devices that utilize a corresponding two or more different information formats. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to determine for the message the store location of the plurality of store locations for which the message is intended. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to determine for the store location an information format of the two or more different information formats with which the POS device of the store location is compatible. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to convert the message to the information format. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to store the converted message in a queue associated with the store location.

According to some possible implementations a method may include receiving by a device a product order via a web portal. The product order may relate to a take out or delivery of a food product. The product order may be associated with a particular order format associated with the web portal. The method may include identifying by the device a store location associated with fulfilling the product order. The store location may utilize a particular type of point of sale POS device for managing product orders. The method may include selecting by the device a store configuration from a set of store configurations associated with a set of store locations for the store location associated with fulfilling the product order based on identifying the store location. The store configuration may specify information associated with the particular type of POS device. The method may include converting by the device the product order based on the information associated with the particular type of POS device to generate a converted product order. The converted product order may be associated with a format compatible with the particular type of POS device. The method may include storing by the device the converted product order in a queue associated with the store location.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

A point of sale device may manage a transaction with a customer of a store location. For example at a restaurant a point of sale device may receive a selection of a set of items of an order and process payment for the order. Similarly at a retail store a point of sale device may provide information regarding an inventory pricing and or perform checkout and payment for a customer. Some point of sale devices are associated with a cloud based platform. For example in a food delivery context a customer may select one or more items via the cloud based platform of the point of sale device and the point of sale device may add the one or more items to a preparation queue e.g. for preparation by a line cook . The point of sale device may provide pricing information for the one or more items and may process payment for the one or more items.

However a set of store locations of the same franchise may utilize multiple types of point of sale devices associated with multiple information formats. Replacing the multiple types of point of sale devices with a single type of point of sale device may be expensive and ill suited to a multi national franchise with extensive investment in legacy systems. Implementations described herein may utilize a real time integration RTI server to integrate multiple types of point of sale devices with multiple information formats into a cloud based platform. In this way the RTI server may facilitate improved scalability improved hardware flexibility a more streamlined cloud based platform improved user experience and or reduced cost relative to installing new point of sale devices or utilizing multiple cloud based platforms. Moreover by facilitating a single cloud based platform adapted for multiple point of sale devices the RTI server may reduce memory storage and or computing resource requirements relative to utilizing multiple websites by facilitating code reuse streamlined functionalities or the like.

The RTI server may determine the store location assigned to fulfill the product order and may determine a store configuration associated with the store location. The store configuration may identify a type of point of sale POS device utilized by the store location an information format for the POS device or the like. The RTI server may perform one or more data conversions on the order information to convert the order information into a format compatible with the type of POS device utilized by the store location and may provide converted order information to a queue associated with the POS device. The queue e.g. POS Queue 1 POS Queue 2 etc. may facilitate asynchronous communication with the POS device thereby permitting the data hub to store one or more messages via the queue for retrieval by the POS device transmission to the POS device or the like. The POS device may receive the converted order information from the RTI server via the POS queue and may process the converted order information to fulfill the order for the user. In another example the POS device may provide confirmation information to the user device update information to the user device or the like via the RTI server and or the front end server. In another example the POS device may receive payment information from the user device via the front end server and or the RTI server.

In this way a franchise can integrate multiple POS devices associated with multiple information formats into a single cloud based platform by using n RTI server to perform data conversions of order information and store converted order information via a set of queues dedicated to the set of POS devices.

User device may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating storing processing and or providing information associated with ordering one or more items from a web platform for delivery. For example user device may include a device such as a mobile phone e.g. a smart phone a radiotelephone etc. a computer e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a handheld computer etc. a gaming device a wearable communication device e.g. a smart wristwatch a pair of smart eyeglasses etc. or a similar type of device. In some implementations user device may access a web platform associated with a group of store locations and provide order information to a front end server associated with the web platform for routing to a particular POS device e.g. via RTI server associated with a particular store location of the group of store locations. In some implementations user device may provide information received from POS device for display. For example user device may receive an order confirmation a payment confirmation an order status or the like for display to a user. In some implementations user device may receive information from and or transmit information to another device in environment such as front end server RTI server and or POS device .

Front end server may include one or more devices capable of storing processing and or routing information. For example front end server may include a server associated with operating a web platform such as a website for a group of store locations. In some implementations front end server may include a virtual machine operating in a cloud environment. In some implementations front end server may receive from user device information such as order information payment information or the like. In some implementations front end server may provide the information to RTI server e.g. for routing to POS device . Additionally or alternatively front end server may receive information and provide the information directly to POS device e.g. without providing the information to RTI server . In some implementations front end server may include a communication interface that allows front end server to receive information from and or transmit information to other devices in environment such as user device RTI server and or POS device .

RTI server may include one or more devices capable of storing processing and or routing information. For example RTI server may include a server that is associated with managing information for a cloud based platform e.g. a web platform front end server a group of POS devices or the like . In some implementations RTI server may include a virtual machine operating in a cloud environment. In some implementations data hub sever may include one or more queues for receiving and or providing information. For example RTI server may include a set of Apache ActiveMQ message queues. Additionally or alternatively RTI server may include one or more queues associated with routing information from a first module of RTI server to a second module of RTI server . For example RTI server may include a queue associated with receiving information from an ActiveMQ inbound message queue and providing the information to a data conversion module associated with converting the information to a format associated with POS device . In some implementations RTI server may include a communication interface that allows RTI server to receive information from and or transmit information to other devices in environment such as user device front end server and or POS device .

POS device may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating storing processing and or providing information associated with fulfilling an order. For example POS device may include a computer e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone an electronic cash register a point of sale terminal or the like. In some implementations POS device may be associated with a particular information format such as a SUS FMS POS format a Panda software POS format or the like. In some implementations POS device may be associated with a queue agent. For example POS device may utilize a queue agent to obtain information such as order information from a queue of RTI server by querying the queue periodically e.g. at a particular time after a threshold period of time elapses or the like . In some implementations a group of POS devices may be associated with a POS data center. The POS data center may include a device associated with a set of POS devices the set being a subset of the group of POS devices associated with RTI server and that routes messages from RTI server to a particular POS device of the set of POS devices . In some implementations POS device may include a communication interface that allows POS device to receive information from and or transmit information to other devices in environment such as user device front end server and or RTI server .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network e.g. a long term evolution LTE network a third generation 3G network a code division multiple access CDMA network etc. a public land mobile network PLMN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a private network an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a cloud computing network an enterprise network or the like and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in are provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. For example although front end server and RTI server are shown as separate devices front end server and RTI server may be integrated into a single device. Additionally or alternatively a set of devices e.g. one or more devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of devices of environment .

Bus may include a component that permits communication among the components of device . Processor is implemented in hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU an accelerated processing unit APU etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that can be programmed to perform a function. Memory may include random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash memory a magnetic memory an optical memory etc. that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Storage component may store information and or software related to the operation and use of device . For example storage component may include a hard disk e.g. a magnetic disk an optical disk a magneto optic disk a solid state disk etc. a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a cartridge a magnetic tape and or another type of computer readable medium along with a corresponding drive.

Input component may include a component that permits device to receive information such as via user input e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch a microphone etc. . Additionally or alternatively input component may include a sensor for sensing information e.g. a global positioning system GPS component an accelerometer a gyroscope an actuator etc. . Output component may include a component that provides output information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component e.g. a transceiver a separate receiver and transmitter etc. that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface may permit device to receive information from another device and or provide information to another device. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface a cellular network interface or the like.

Device may perform one or more processes described herein. Device may perform these processes in response to processor executing software instructions stored by a computer readable medium such as memory and or storage component . A computer readable medium is defined herein as a non transitory memory device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory and or storage component from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory and or storage component may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number and arrangement of components shown in are provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively a set of components e.g. one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of components of device .

As shown in process may include receiving information for transmission to a POS device block . For example RTI server may receive order information for transmission to POS device . In some implementations RTI server may receive the order information from front end server via an application programming interface API layer associated with RTI server e.g. a Hybris data hub . For example as shown in and by reference number a user of user device may select a set of items e.g. 2 Large Pizza and 1 Medium Soda for delivery from a store location associated with POS device . As shown by reference number user device may provide order information to front end server . In some implementations the order information may include information identifying the set of items information identifying the store location information identifying the user or the like.

As shown by reference numbers and front end server e.g. a Hybris core device may receive the order information and utilize a Hybris data hub adapter to wrap the order information into an object type receivable by RTI server e.g. a Hybris data hub device . For example front end server may utilize Hybris data hub adapter application programming interface API code to wrap the order information into a data transfer object DTO object and may utilize the Hybris data hub adapter to convert information of the DTO object to a comma separated value CSV format of information. As shown by reference number RTI server may receive the CSV information via a CSV web service module of RTI server .

As further shown in process may include determining a store configuration associated with the POS device block . For example RTI server may determine the store configuration associated with POS device . The store configuration may include information identifying a type of POS device an information format for information provided to POS device a message transmission method type e.g. information regarding how messages are removed from a POS queue such as by a POS agent by a push transmission etc. or the like. For example as shown in and by reference number based on receiving the CSV information RTI server may cause the CSV information to be associated with an inbound feed channel . As shown by reference number RTI server may remove the CSV information from inbound message feed channel and perform data transformation to convert the CSV information from a raw format associated with front end server to a canonical format associated with RTI server .

In some implementations RTI server may obtain the store configuration information from a data structure associated with RTI server . For example RTI server may process the order information to identify a store location that is intended to fulfill the order. In this case RTI server may determine a type of POS device utilized by the store location and an information format associated with that type of POS device . Additionally or alternatively RTI server may obtain store configuration information from another device such as from a store configuration data structure from front end server or the like.

As further shown in process may include performing based on the store configuration a data conversion on the information to generate converted information block . For example RTI server may perform the data conversion to generate the converted information. In some implementations RTI server may alter the information when generating the converted information. For example RTI server may split the order information into multiple portions of order information. Additionally or alternatively RTI server may add information to the converted information such as adding authentication information user identification information e.g. obtained from a user information data structure user preference information or the like.

For example as shown in and by reference number RTI server may route the order information e.g. that has been converted to the canonical format to a set of data conversion modules . RTI server may select from the set of data conversion modules a particular data conversion module associated with converting information to an information format associated with a type of POS device utilized at the store location to which the order information is intended to be provided. Data conversion module may perform a data conversion of a portion of the order information to generate converted information associated with the information format for POS device . In this way RTI server may integrate multiple types of POS devices associated with multiple information formats into a cloud based platform.

As further shown in process may include storing the converted information in a queue associated with the POS device block . For example RTI server may store the converted information e.g. converted order information in the queue associated with POS device . In some implementations RTI server may dynamically generate queues. For example RTI server may determine that a queue is not instantiated for POS device and may generate the queue for providing information to POS device . Additionally or alternatively RTI server may remove a queue such as when the queue does not include any messages for POS device . In this way RTI server may facilitate addition of a store location removal of a store location a replacement of a particular POS device at a store location with another type of POS device or the like.

In some implementations RTI server may store the converted information in a queue associated with a particular POS device . For example RTI server may store first converted information in a first queue dedicated for a first POS device and store second converted information in a second queue dedicated for a second POS device . Additionally or alternatively RTI server may store converted information in a queue associated with a group of POS devices . For example the queue may be associated with a group of POS devices associated with a similar format a common organizational entity a common owner or the like. In this case RTI server may include information indicating for which POS device of the group of POS devices the converted information is intended. In this way RTI server may integrate a legacy system that links a group of POS devices .

As shown in and by reference number a Java message service JMS data hub adapter of RTI server may select from a set of queues a particular queue e.g. an ActiveMQ queue as an endpoint for storing the converted information from data conversion .

In some implementations the converted information may be obtained from the particular queue by POS device using a message queue agent e.g. operating on POS device . For example as shown in and by reference number a POS agent may obtain the converted information from queue for POS device . In this case RTI server may provide information to POS device indicating a network address for the particular queue such as an Internet protocol IP address a port address or the like that POS device may utilize to obtain the converted information. In this way RTI server may facilitate asynchronous communication with a POS device that includes a message queue agent module such as POS agent .

In some implementations the converted information may be transmitted from the particular queue to POS device via transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS java message service JMS or another type of protocol. For example as shown in and by reference number a data hub subscriber extension may obtain the converted information from POS queue . Data hub subscriber extension may include data hub subscriber extension channel a JMS inbound adapter and JMS in channel queue . Collectively data hub subscriber extension may facilitate transmission of the converted information to POS device . Data hub subscriber extension channel may receive the converted information from POS queue . JMS inbound adapter may determine a desired endpoint for the converted information e.g. a TCP related endpoint an HTTPS related endpoint or the like . JMS in channel queue may direct the converted information to the desired endpoint.

The converted information may be routed from data hub subscriber extension to TCP module which may include TCP adapter TCP service activator and TCP in channel queue . TCP module may be associated with facilitating transmission of the converted information to POS group data center . TCP adapter may facilitate causing the message to be transmitted via TCP. TCP service activator may be associated with activating TCP transmission service for the converted information. TCP in channel queue may be associated with providing the converted information via TCP. POS group data center may receive the converted information from the particular queue e.g. via data hub subscriber extension and TCP module via a TCP connection and may provide the converted information to POS device via a transmission of a set of transmissions that POS group data center provides to a set of POS devices .

In some implementations the converted information may be transmitted from the particular queue to POS device via Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or HTTP Secure HTTPS . For example as shown in and by reference number the converted information may be provided from data hub subscriber extension to HTTPS module which may include HTTPS adapter HTTPS service activator and HTTPS in channel queue . HTTPS module may be associated with facilitating transmission of the converted information to POS device via an HTTPS connection. HTTPS adapter may be associated with adapting the converted information for transmission via HTTPS. HTTPS service activator may be associated with causing HTTPS transmission to be activated. HTTPS in channel queue may be associated with providing the converted information via HTTPS. As shown by reference number RTI server may provide the converted information from HTTPS module to POS device via an HTTPS connection.

In this way RTI server may integrate multiple types of POS devices associated with multiple information formats into a cloud based platform using a set of data conversion modules and information regarding a store configuration.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include receiving via an inbound queue information from a POS device block . For example RTI server may receive information from POS device that is intended for front end server user device or the like. In some implementations RTI server may receive the information from POS device via the inbound queue e.g. an ActiveMQ queue . For example RTI server may establish a single inbound queue for receiving messages from POS devices . In this case RTI server may provide information identifying the single inbound queue e.g. network address information such as an IP address a port address or the like to each POS device that is associated with RTI server . Additionally or alternatively RTI server may receive the information from POS device via a server device. For example when a set of other POS devices are associated with a server device a particular POS device may provide the information to the server device which may route the information to the inbound queue of RTI server .

Additionally or alternatively RTI server may establish multiple inbound queues from one of which RTI server may receive the information from POS device . For example RTI server may establish an inbound queue for each POS device an inbound queue for two or more POS devices of a set of POS devices associated with RTI server or the like. In this case RTI server may provide information associated with a particular queue to one or more POS devices from which the inbound queue is intended to receive information. In some implementations RTI server may establish multiple inbound queues for receiving information via multiple transmission techniques. For example RTI server may establish a first inbound queue for receiving information via a TCP technique a second inbound queue for receiving information via an HTTPS technique a third inbound queue for receiving information via a Java Message Service JMS technique or the like.

For example as shown in and by reference numbers and a set of POS devices and each provide information to an ActiveMQ web service module of RTI server which publishes the information to a single inbound queue . In some implementations ActiveMQ web service module may provide a response message to POS devices and or acknowledging receipt of information therefrom. As shown by reference number RTI server includes a Spring Integration module which obtains a message e.g. information from POS device from inbound message queue and assigns the message to Spring Integration channel for utilization by RTI server .

As further shown in process may include determining a store configuration associated with the POS device block . For example RTI server may determine the store configuration associated with POS device . In some implementations RTI server determines the store configuration by parsing the information received from POS device . For example RTI server may interpret the information to determine a format in which the information is provided. Additionally or alternatively RTI server may determine identification information included in the information received from POS device that identifies a store location of POS device a format utilized by POS device or the like. In some implementations RTI server may query a store configuration data structure to obtain the store configuration associated with POS device . For example RTI server may determine the store configuration associated with POS device and identify a data conversion based on the store configuration for utilizing the information received from POS device .

For example as shown in and by reference number RTI server utilizes a service activator of Spring Integration module to determine a store configuration associated with POS device by processing the information received from POS device . As shown by reference number RTI server utilizes Spring Integration JMS adapter to provide the information to JMS inbound channel . As shown by reference number RTI server provides the information from JMS inbound channel to RTI server channel . The information may remain associated with RTI server channel until RTI server selects from a set of data conversion modules a particular data conversion module e.g. data conversion module for performing a data conversion on the information.

As further shown in process may include performing based on the store configuration a data conversion on the information to generate converted information block . For example RTI server performs the data conversion on the information to generate converted information in a format that can be provided to and read by front end server and or another device. For example as shown in and by reference numbers and RTI server utilizes data conversion module to convert the information from a format utilized by POS device to a raw format of RTI server and utilizes data conversion module to convert the information from the raw format to converted information in a canonical format associated with front end server .

As further shown in process may include providing the converted information to a front end server block . For example RTI server may provide the converted information to front end server which may provide the information to user device . For example as shown in and by reference number RTI server may utilize a routing extension e.g. associated with providing messages via ImpEx to provide the converted information to front end server e.g. a Hybris front end server . As shown by reference number an ImpEx extension of front end server or another type of extension may receive the converted information and provide the converted information for utilization by front end server .

In this way RTI server may facilitate communication between a set of POS devices utilizing multiple information formats and front end server and or user device .

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include obtaining update information for a front end server block . For example RTI server may obtain the update information for front end server from an update server e.g. a server associated with providing update information . Update information may refer to an updated price for an item an updated offer relating to an item an updated feature of a web platform an updated description on the web platform an updated set of items available at one or more store locations information regarding a new store location information regarding an existing store location or the like. In some implementations a module of front end server may obtain the update information for utilization by front end server . For example the module of front end server may obtain the update information from the update server.

For example as shown in and by reference number an update server generates a product update for a product being offered for sale via a web platform of front end server e.g. an item of food being offered for delivery by a store location associated with front end server . Assume that the product update is intended for display via a web platform associated with front end server . As shown by reference number a polling consumer module of RTI server obtains the product update from update server . In some implementations polling consumer module may pull the product update from update server . For example polling consumer module may query update server for the product update based on a particular polling frequency e.g. at a particular time after a threshold quantity of time elapses etc. which may be configured via a Spring Application module. In some implementations update server may push the product update to polling consumer module when the product update is generated.

As further shown in and by reference number the update information is processed by an adapter e.g. a secure FTP adapter associated with Spring Integration and provided to channel . As shown by reference number the update information is obtained from channel and stored via an archive data structure . In this way RTI server may store the update information thereby accounting for an error in providing the update information to front end server and facilitating re transmission of the update information after a failed transmission. As shown by reference number RTI server utilizes polling consumer module to obtain the update information from archive data structure and to provide the update information to file adapter e.g. a Spring Integration file adapter . RTI server provides the update information from file adapter to channel and as shown by reference number RTI server converts the update information into a message object using service activator and message generator . The message object may include the update information header information or the like.

As further shown in process may include performing a data conversion on the update information to generate converted update information block . For example RTI server may perform the data conversion on the update information to generate converted update information. For example as shown in and by reference numbers and RTI server may utilize data conversion module to convert the update information of the message object to a raw format associated with RTI server e.g. from a format associated with update server and from the raw format to a canonical format associated with front end server . In this way RTI server reuses a data conversion module associated with converting between the raw format and the canonical format in multiple contexts e.g. in a first context of a message from front end server to POS device in a second context of a message from POS device to front end server in a third context of a message from update server to front end server or the like . In some implementations when the message object is intended for another device than front end server RTI server may convert the update information of the message object from the raw format to another format such as a format associated with POS device .

As further shown in process may include providing the converted update information to the front end server block . For example RTI server may provide the converted update information to front end server e.g. for utilization in updating a web platform . For example as shown in and by reference number RTI server may provide the message object with converted update information to an adapter module of front end server which may adapt the message object for utilization by front end server . In some implementations RTI server and or front end sever may include one or more error handling techniques such as one or more techniques associated with generating an error object e.g. a Java error object and storing the error object via an error data structure for analysis debugging or the like when an error occurs. Additionally or alternatively RTI server may obtain another copy of the update information from archive data structure and may reconvert and retransmit the update information to front end server when an error occurs.

In this way RTI server may facilitate updates to front end server and or a web platform associated therewith.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include receiving a request for order pricing information block . For example front end server may receive the request for order pricing information from user device e.g. via a web platform associated with front end server . In some implementations front end server may receive the request when user device is intending to place an order. For example when a user selects a set of items for an order front end server may receive an instruction to confirm pricing with POS device for each item of the set of items before the order can be accepted via the web platform. In this case the web platform may generate a request for order pricing when a user of user device confirms the order.

For example as shown in and by reference number user device causes the request to be sent to front end server as confirmation of an order e.g. which triggers the web platform to generate the request . Assume that the request identifies the set of items. Front end server receives the request via a queue module e.g. an ActiveMQ module that includes an inbound queue e.g. a first ActiveMQ queue and an outbound queue e.g. a second ActiveMQ queue . Front end server obtains the request using Spring Integration module . Spring Integration module includes a JMS inbound gateway adapter module and a message input channel . Front end server utilizes JMS inbound gateway adapter module to facilitate receiving the message from inbound queue and providing the message via message input channel to parallel execution module .

As further shown in process may include decomposing the request into a set of item pricing requests block . For example front end server may decompose the request into a set of item pricing requests for POS device . Decomposing the request may refer to separating a multi item order into the set of items which may be processed in parallel e.g. processing may include one or more data conversions queries or the like . Additionally or alternatively the request may be decomposed to perform another type of processing such as sequential processing on one or more items of the order or the like.

For example as shown in and by reference number front end server provides the request for order pricing to a service activator associated with a data conversion module . The data conversion module is associated with converting the request for order pricing to a format associated with POS device . As shown by reference number front end server utilizes data conversion module to generate converted information and the converted information e.g. a set of item pricing requests is provided to outbound message channel .

As further shown in process may include providing the set of item pricing requests to a POS device block . For example front end server may transmit the set of item pricing requests to POS device . For example as shown in and by reference number front end server provides the set of item pricing requests to TCP adapter module which receives each item pricing request of the set of item pricing requests and provides the set of item pricing requests to TCP outbound message channel . Additionally or alternatively front end server may utilize one or more modules associated with a non TCP technique such as one or more modules associated with an HTTPS technique a JMS technique or the like. As shown by reference number multiple item pricing requests of the set of item pricing requests are provided to POS device which as shown by reference number provides a set of item prices as a set of response messages .

As further shown in process may include receiving from the POS device a set of item prices based on providing the set of item pricing requests block . For example front end server receives a set of messages including the set of item prices from POS device . For example as shown in and by reference number front end server receives via TCP inbound channel queue information identifying the set of item prices from POS device .

As further shown in process may include providing order information to a user device based on the set of item prices block . For example front end server provides order information to user device based on the set of item prices. For example as shown in and by reference number front end server utilizes data conversion module to perform a data conversion on the information identifying the set of item prices to generate order information and provides the order information to outbound channel . Front end server provides the order information to a JMS outbound gateway adapter and to a JMS outbound channel associated therewith. Front end server provides the order information from JMS outbound channel to outbound queue . As shown by reference number front end server provides the order information from outbound queue to user device . In this way front end server may facilitate a real time request for information from POS device .

As further shown in process may include obtaining and providing payment information to the POS device based on providing the order information to the user device block . For example front end server may obtain payment information and provide the payment information to POS device . In some implementations front end server may receive first payment information from user device . For example user device may provide credit card information to front end server based on receiving information confirming a price for an order. In this case front end server may provide the first payment information to a credit card authorization server and may receive second payment information e.g. authorization information such as encrypted credit card information an authorization token a payment confirmation or the like which may be provided to POS device .

For example as shown in and by reference number a user of user device inputs credit card information in a form of a web platform. As shown by reference user device provides the credit card information to front end server . Front end server receives the credit card information and as shown by reference number provides the credit card information to credit card authorization server . In some implementations front end server may obtain information regarding POS device . For example front end server may determine a store identifier associated with POS device and may include the store identifier when providing the credit card information to credit card authorization server . In this way front end server permits authorization server to authorize and process payment for a store associated with POS device .

As shown by reference number credit card authorization server authorizes the payment information. As shown by reference number front end server receives authorization information from credit card authorization server . As shown by reference number front end server provides the authorization information to POS device . As shown by reference number POS device receives the authorization information and proceeds with order preparation e.g. POS device adds the order to a display indicating orders for fulfillment schedules delivery or the like . As shown by reference number POS device provides confirmation that the order is being prepared e.g. information indicating an expected delivery time or the like to front end server which routes the confirmation to user device for display. Additionally or alternatively front end server may route the confirmation to another user device e.g. a mobile phone via a text message a set top box via a message center or the like .

In this way front end server may facilitate placing an order with POS device and a secure transaction for the order.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

In this way an RTI server and or a front end server may facilitate an ecommerce platform for food delivery that integrates payment multiple point of sale device formats or the like. By integrating these features into a single platform RTI server and or front end server may improve user experience reduce usage of computing resources or the like relative to a system that separates features into multiple isolated modules.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware and or a combination of hardware and software.

Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As used herein satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold more than the threshold higher than the threshold greater than or equal to the threshold less than the threshold fewer than the threshold lower than the threshold less than or equal to the threshold equal to the threshold etc.

Certain user interfaces have been described herein and or shown in the figures. A user interface may include a graphical user interface a non graphical user interface a text based user interface etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some implementations a user may interact with the information such as by providing input via an input component of a device that provides the user interface for display. In some implementations a user interface may be configurable by a device and or a user e.g. a user may change the size of the user interface information provided via the user interface a position of information provided via the user interface etc. . Additionally or alternatively a user interface may be pre configured to a standard configuration a specific configuration based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed and or a set of configurations based on capabilities and or specifications associated with a device on which the user interface is displayed.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods described herein may be implemented in different forms of hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described herein without reference to specific software code it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Also as used herein the terms has have having or the like are intended to be open ended terms. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

