---

title: Automatically selecting addressees for receiving a content item
abstract: A system, method, and apparatus are provided for distributing a content item toward target recipients solely via first degree connections (e.g., in a professional network, in a social network). For a selected content item and identified target recipients of the item, when a user initiates a message to forward or otherwise convey the content item, one or more schemes are applied to select and automatically populate the message with suitable addressees. In one scheme, values are computed for each neighbor of the sender, to indicate the value of delivering the item to that neighbor; the message is automatically addressed to the highest-value neighbors. In another scheme, user communities that encompass the target recipients are identified and the message is automatically addressed to neighbors that are best able to disseminate the item throughout a community. In another scheme a minimal set of neighbors having connections to all target recipients is identified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639612&OS=09639612&RS=09639612
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09639612
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150219
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 229 578 filed Mar. 28 2014.

This disclosure relates to the field of computer systems. More particularly a system apparatus and methods are provided for automatically populating an addressee field of a message when the sender of the message transmits or forwards a content item.

A recipient of a content item such as a video clip an audio file or a document is often more receptive to or more interested in the content when he or she knows or has some personal or professional connection to the sender. For example when a user of an online service receives content forwarded from a friend who also uses the service he or she generally is more likely to consume it e.g. watch it listen to it read it than if it was blindly sent by the service or by some other entity with which he or she has no personal or professional connection.

However content originators and other entities that wish to distribute content to users matching some target criteria and or particular users generally do not have close connections to all of the target users. They may therefore be limited to traditional solutions such as paying a publisher e.g. a web site operator to place their content before those users. The target users however may be likely to ignore the content because it is deemed to be an advertisement or other blindly delivered message.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the disclosed embodiments and is provided in the context of one or more particular applications and their requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the scope of those that are disclosed. Thus the invention or inventions associated with this disclosure are not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but rather are to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the disclosure.

In some embodiments a system apparatus and methods are provided for automatically populating the addressee field of a message e.g. an electronic mail message an instant message for transmitting or forwarding an item of content with one or more strategically selected addressees based on the content and the sender of the message. In different contexts this action may be described as automatically addressing the message auto populating the message with addressees or something similar.

Stated differently the system apparatus and methods facilitate delivery of a selected content item to target recipients solely via messages initiated by first degree connections i.e. people the recipients know .

In these embodiments even if the automatically selected addressees are first degree connections measures may be taken to avoid distributing the content in a spam like manner. For example each time the content item is sent a limited number of auto populated addressees may be included. This number may be a predefined limit e.g. 5 10 20 or may be based on a dynamic calculation that considers who is sending the message the type of content the value of delivering the content to or through a particular recipient and or other factors. Another measure that may be taken is to ensure that once the content item is sent to or delivered to a particular recipient that recipient is never again automatically selected as a recipient.

In some particular implementations system is operated within a professional or social networking service or system that helps members create develop and maintain professional and or personal relationships as provided by LinkedIn Corporation for example.

Members or users of a service offered by system connect to the system via client devices which may be stationary e.g. desktop computer workstation or mobile e.g. smart phone table computer laptop computer . The client devices operate suitable client applications such as a browser program an electronic mail program or an application designed specifically to access the service s offered by system . Users of system may be termed members because they may be required to register with the system in order to fully access the system s services.

As part of the services it offers system serves content for presentation to users via their client devices. The content that is served may include media files advertisements offers announcements job listings status updates news messages and so on and may be or may include any type of media e.g. text images video audio . System may serve content generated by or among users of the system s services and or content supplied by third parties for delivery to users of those services.

User member connections are generally made through portal s which may comprise an application server a web server and or some other gateway or entry point. System also includes content server tracking server profile server message server data server content store and event database .

Members of the service have corresponding pages e.g. web pages content pages on system which they may use to facilitate their activities with the system and with each other. These pages or information provided to members via these pages are available to some or all other members to visit in order to browse messages announcements and or other information provided by or associated with the corresponding member.

Tracking server monitors and records activity of system and or members e.g. in event database . For example whenever content is served from portal or content server e.g. to a client device the tracking server may record what is served to whom e.g. which member when it was served and or other information. Other information may include how it was delivered e.g. via a web page via electronic mail via instant message . Similarly the tracking server also records member actions regarding advertisements and or other content presented to the members to include identities of the member and the content acted upon the action that was taken e.g. click conversion follow on request visiting a page associated with a subject or provider of the content forwarding the content when the action was taken etc.

Content server maintains one or more repositories of content items for serving to members e.g. content store an index of the content items and or other information useful in serving content to members. Illustratively content server may serve on the order of hundreds of millions of content items every day for each of which tracking server stores an event record in addition to data reflecting other user activity as described above .

As indicated above content store may include various types of content and content items including advertisements e.g. both revenue and non revenue ads information released by members and possibly non members e.g. announcements messages status updates job listings descriptions media content e.g. images video audio documents and so on for serving to members and or for use by various components of system . Content server or some other component of system may include a recommendation module for recommending content to serve to a member and or the system may apply recommendations generated by an external entity.

Profile server maintains profiles of members of the service s hosted by system e.g. in a profile database not depicted in . An individual member s profile may reflect any number of attributes or characteristics of the member including personal e.g. gender age or age range interests hobbies member ID professional e.g. employment status job title functional area or industry employer skills endorsements professional awards co workers social e.g. organizations the user is a member of geographic area of residence friends associates educational e.g. degree s university attended other training user member communities the member belongs to etc. A member s profile or attributes or dimensions of a member s profile may be used in various ways by system components e.g. to identify who sent a message to select recipients of a message to identify a recipient of a status update to record a content delivery event .

With the data it maintains profile server can identify for each given member other members that the given member is connected to e.g. as friends or associates . Thus not only can system map or graph the entire network of members and member connections with nodes representing members and edges representing member connections for example it can also identify sub networks having any desired locus or nexus e.g. an institution common to a set of members a field of endeavor shared by multiple members . Thus if a goal arises of delivering a particular content item to a particular member but only through member connections e.g. messages between members the system can readily identify one or more paths to the member. The terms sub network and a member user community may be used interchangeably in the following discussion.

Organizations may also be members of the service i.e. in addition to individuals and may have associated descriptions or profiles comprising attributes such as industry e.g. information technology manufacturing finance size location s goal products services etc. An organization may be a company a corporation a partnership a firm a government agency or entity a not for profit entity an online community e.g. a user group or some other entity formed for virtually any purpose e.g. professional social educational .

Message server may host an electronic mail program a chat or instant message program or some other type of messaging program. Although depicted as part of system in in some other embodiments the message server may be operated by a third party and therefore may be remote from system . In the latter embodiments however one or more components of system e.g. data server are capable of generating and or formatting messages or at least auto populating an addressee field of a message generated by the message server through an API Application Programming Interface or other mechanism.

As described in more detail below data server facilitates auto population of the addressee fields of messages that are initiated by members for distribution by message server . In particular when a member chooses to send or forward a predetermined content item the addressee field will be automatically populated with one or more addressees selected by the data server. Depending on various factors including the sender the content item previous distribution of the content item the sender s connections i.e. friends associates of the sender and so on different messages may be auto populated with different numbers of addressees.

System may include other components not illustrated in . For example for each member of the system s service s system may store a record of content items served to the member or served for presentation to the member and when they were served. Such a data store may be configured to allow the content server and or other components of system to quickly determine whether a particular content item was previously presented to a particular member how many times it was presented when it was presented how it was presented e.g. via electronic mail via web page how prominently or where it was presented within a page of content and or other information. Although some of this data may duplicate what is stored in event database contents of this member data store would be rapidly accessible to one or more other servers e.g. content server data server and may be used for example to help select a content item to serve in response to a current request or to help select recipients of a content item.

The functionality of system may be distributed among the illustrated components in an alternative manner such as by merging or further dividing functions of one or more components or may be distributed among a different collection of components. Yet further while implemented as separate hardware components e.g. computer servers in one or more of portal content server tracking server profile server message server and data server may alternatively be implemented as separate software modules executing on one or more computer servers. Although only single instances of each component of system are illustrated in it should be understood that multiple instances of some or all components may be employed.

In some embodiments a method of auto populating an addressee begins after a content item is selected and after a set of one or more target recipients of the item have been identified. As indicated above the content item may be of any type or form that is transmittable as part of or as an attachment to a message.

Target recipients may be identified in different ways in different scenarios. For example one member of a service offered by system of may submit a content item that the member desires to have delivered to specific other members e.g. identified by name or other identifier to other members having one or more specific attributes or characteristics e.g. graduates of a particular university employed by a particular company working in a particular field living in a particular area or to other members the system considers as possibly being interested in the item.

In different scenarios therefore in order to identify target recipients the system may consider different attributes of members or users e.g. as maintained by profile server of connections between members which may include the entire network of member connections or any portion s thereof as well as characteristics of the content item and or of the member who is sending the content item. Any or all data retained within the system may be considered by a recommendation engine fit model or other means for identifying the candidate recipients and these means may be internal or external to the system.

By way of illustration and not limitation a network of all members and member connections that may be supported by methods described herein may include hundreds of millions of nodes e.g. 290 million and over 10 billion edges e.g. 13 billion wherein each node represents one member and each edge represents a connection between two members. The edges may or may not be homogeneous in nature. In other words some edges may represent explicit member connections e.g. formal friend or associate links while others may represent implied or implicit connections e.g. a connection between two members who have something in common or who interacted without having a formal connection .

In some implementations each target recipient is weighted according to the fit or compatibility between the content item and that target recipient such as with a value between 1 and 1 inclusive i.e. 1 1 or between 0 and 1 inclusive i.e. 0 1 wherein higher values represent greater correlation or a better fit. Or target recipients may be weighted with one value e.g. 1 while all members who are not target recipients are weighted with another value e.g. 0 .

Thus the system may determine among all members or a subset of all members not only which members are desired or intended recipients of a given content item but which members are the most or least suitable. With this determination when a member chooses to transmit that content item the system may auto populate the sender s message with addressees that include one or more target recipients and or other members or users that are in or on paths to or toward at least one target recipient.

As the content item is distributed throughout the system s member user network a version of the network tailored to the item may be updated accordingly. For example once a particular member receives the content item e.g. via a message with an auto populated addressee field the system will bias against delivering it to that member again in particular some edges of the tree that would cause it to be delivered again may be pruned.

Also a collection of addressees pre identified for auto population for a particular member before that member actually forwards or sends the content item may be updated based on other members activities. For example if the system determines that another member is not going to send the item or likely will not send it the pre identified addressees may be augmented with addressees that would have been used to populate a message sent by the other user. Alternatively if the other member does forward the content item the pre identified addressees may be pruned to remove addressees or paths used by the message sent by the other member.

It may be noted that when auto population of an addressee field is active for a given content item applicable parameters may vary from one scenario to another e.g. based on the sender the sender s neighborhood the content item . For example the maximum number of auto populated addressees may vary the sender may or may not be able add additional addressees the sender may or may not be able to remove an auto populated addressee the sender may or may not be able to cancel the message before sending it the sender may or may not be able to send it more than once etc.

In different embodiments or scenarios different schemes for selecting addressees with which to automatically populate a message that conveys a given content item may be applied. The same scheme or different schemes may be applied for different items at different times for different target recipients for different senders. Illustrative schemes described herein include a value function approach a community propagation approach and an inverted Steiner tree approach. It may be noted that while embodiments described below limit auto populated message addressees to first degree connections of the sender this restriction is not required in all embodiments.

In operation a content item is identified for which auto population of addressee fields is to be applied when the item is transmitted via electronic message. The item may be selected by a member may be selected by the system e.g. an operator of the system a recommendation engine or by some other entity e.g. an item sponsor that is not a member of the system . An item may be selected because a member or other user is sponsoring its distribution because the system is doing so as a public service or to enhance its members experiences with the service and or for some other reason.

As illustrative but not limitative examples a musical group may wish to publicize a new song or music video an employer may want to distribute notification of a job opportunity to suitable people a vendor may want to distribute an offer regarding a new product etc.

In operation multiple target recipients of the content item are identified and weighted. As discussed above this may be performed in virtually any manner using any suitable method and may be performed by the same system that will auto populate message addressee fields or by some other entity. The weights correspond to the measured or perceived desirability of delivering the selected content item to the target recipients. Thus it is more desirable to deliver the content item to a first target recipient having a relatively high weight e.g. near 1 than to deliver the content item to second target recipient having a relatively low weight e.g. negative or near 0 .

Illustratively the identified target recipients may be some number or percentage of members having the top weights may be all members having weights above a threshold or cut off weight or may be delineated in some other fashion. A goal of the illustrated method may be to deliver the content item to all of the target recipients or to at least some percentage of them e.g. 80 .

In some embodiments a member s weight may be computed as a distance within a defined space between vectors representing the member and an ideal target recipient of the content item e.g. a hypothetical recipient having attributes deemed most compatible with or most complementary to the item . For example the content item and the member may be graphed or modeled as vectors within an m dimensional space m 2 in which each dimension corresponds to an attribute of a target audience of the item e.g. the target recipients . Illustrative attributes include industry skills engagement level location education and so on. In some implementations the cosine difference between the member s vector and the ideal recipient s vector is calculated and adopted as the member s weight.

In operation a current holder or possessor of the selected content item chooses to forward the content item or to send it within a newly generated message. Illustratively this holder may be the member or other party who selected the item in operation or who created or first received it from its originator. For example an employment recruiter who creates a new job opening notification or job posting may activate a process for generating a message to share it with some members.

In operation the system begins the process of identifying whether and how to auto populate the holder s message that will convey the content item. In particular the holder s immediate network N is identified which includes all first degree member connections or in other words all system members who are directly connected to the holder within the overall member network.

In some implementations this network N is restricted to immediate neighbors with whom the current holder of the content item previously interacted. Such interaction may include exchange of at least one message commenting on or sharing by the immediate neighbor on a post made by the current holder or vice versa endorsing a skill of the holder by the immediate neighbor or vice versa etc. This restriction eliminates first degree connections with whom the sender really has only a tenuous connection.

In optional operation network N is pruned to remove any members who previously received the selected content item or at least those members who received the content item via a message that featured an auto populated addressee field.

In operation for each other member in the holder s network N the system calculates a perceived value of sending or delivering the selected content item to that member. In different embodiments this value may be calculated in different ways but generally will yield numerical results for each neighbor within N. The higher the value the higher the perceived benefit of putting the content item in the possession of the corresponding neighbor.

In some implementations the following value function is applied to calculate the value V of each first degree connection i of the current holder TABLE 1 defines the components of this function 1 

Thus the value of getting the selected content item to a member i is based on the weight of that member which was calculated by the system as part of identifying the target recipients or was received from another entity that identified the target recipients. To this base value is added the product of the probability that the member will forward send the content item and the summation of the calculated values of getting the content item to each of the top rated k immediate neighbors of i who have not already received it or at least have not received it via a message having an auto populated addressee field .

As indicated the variable k identifies the maximum number of neighbors i.e. first degree connections of member i with which to auto populate the message when member i sends the content item. The value of k may vary from one member to another and for one content item to another and is configured to prevent inadvertent spamming of a member s network. In some implementations k is set as the maximum of two values a predetermined constant e.g. 10 20 30 and a percentage or a portion of the number of users in the sending member s network N e.g. 15 20 25 .

A result of equation 1 is a sorted list of up to k neighbors in particular the k neighbors that are estimated to yield the greatest value according to the value function upon delivery of the selected content item.

In operation the list is sorted if it was not already sorted during computation of the neighbors values. Equation 1 includes a sort operation but other value functions may not and the results of these functions would therefore be ordered according to value.

In operation the message initiated by the current holder of the content item is automatically populated with up to k neighbors identified by the value function. The method of then ends or after the content item is received by an auto populated addressee the method may be repeated if and when that recipient chooses to forward the received message or to send the content item in a new message.

In some embodiments full or partial values can be pre computed for some or all members in the member network instead of computing the values on the fly at the time a possessor of the item chooses to send it. For example each member s weight can be computed e.g. as part of the process of identifying target recipients and then the network or some portion of the network may be traversed to compute each member s value. Even in a very large network this may be a relatively lightweight computation requiring no more than a few traversals of the entire network.

A second method of selecting addressees with which to automatically populate a message that conveys a selected content item is termed a community propagation method. A focus of this approach is delivering the content item to selected communities of members and propagating it throughout those communities.

In operation a content item is identified for delivery via messages exchanged by first degree connections. The item may be selected by a member may be selected by the system e.g. an operator of the system a recommendation engine or by some other entity. An item may be selected because a member or other user is sponsoring its distribution because the system is doing so as a public service or to enhance its members experiences with the service and or for some other reason.

In operation one or more target recipients of the content item are identified. As discussed above this may be performed in virtually any manner using any suitable method and may be performed by the same system that will auto populate message addressee fields or by some other entity.

In some implementations weights are computed for possible target recipients and the identified target recipients may be some number or percentage of possible target recipients having the highest weights.

Alternatively criteria specified for identifying target recipients may be applied and the identified target recipients may include all members who match or sufficiently match the criteria. Thus in this alternative implementation identifying target recipients among all members may be a binary process of determining whether a given member does or does not sufficiently match the criteria.

Such criteria may consider any portion of members profiles which as described above may include myriad attributes. For example the criteria may indicate that the content item should be targeted at members matching all of a specified set of criteria such as for example a specific age or age range graduation from a particular university employment in a particular industry and or functional area.

As a result of operation a set of target recipients is identified to whom the system will attempt to deliver the content item via messages from first degree connections that are automatically populated with addressees that will increase the likelihood that the item reaches the target recipients.

In operation communities of members that encompass each target recipient are identified or defined. A given target recipient may be encompassed by multiple communities but each target recipient will be a member of at least one.

Each community is defined by some attribute or attributes that is or are common to all members of the community and or as a collection of members who interact relatively frequently. The attributes that define the communities may match or be a subset or a superset of the attributes that were used to identify the target recipients. In some scenarios there may be close correlation between target recipients and communities so close even that a given community or all communities may include only target recipients and few or no members who are not target recipients. On the other hand target recipients may match a relatively narrow set of attributes while their corresponding communities are defined more broadly.

In different embodiments different techniques or methods may be applied to identify target recipients communities such as but not limited to clique based methods hierarchical clustering minimum cut methods modularity maximization seed node expansion algorithms etc.

One goal of identifying target recipients communities is to identify portions or sub networks of the overall member network that the content item should be delivered to. Once a message that conveys the content item enters a community a complementary goal is to disseminate the content item throughout the community but to limit or prevent distribution outside of the community by anyone within the community unless doing so is the best or only way to reach another target recipient .

In operation applicable constraints or restraints are identified if any. For example it may be determined that the sender of a message that conveys the selected content item may not or may be able to select as a manually populated addressee anyone who is not within an identified community.

As another example it may be specified that the method terminates when some number or percentage of all target recipients have received the content item after this termination point is reached new messages that convey the content item will not be automatically populated as described herein.

As yet another example constraint a maximum hop count may be identified for reaching a community. Illustratively when a given member generates a message to forward or send the content item if no community i.e. a member of an identified community can be reached via first degree connections from the given member without exceeding the maximum hop count then the message s addressee field may not be auto populated at all.

Yet other constraints or restrictions may be applied in other implementations to limit the total number of messages that will be auto populated with addressees to set a maximum number e.g. k of auto populated addressees to identify a maximum number of members to which the content item may be delivered via auto population of their addresses to set a date time limit regarding auto population to allow or not allow repeat delivery of the content item to a member etc.

In operation a member who currently possesses the content item initiates a message to send or forward it.

In operation the system determines whether the sending member is within an identified community. If so the method advances to operation otherwise the method continues with operation .

In operation the system identifies one or more addressees with which to auto populate the message s addressee field. If the sending member is directly connected to members of one or more identified communities some or all of them will be selected as auto fill addressees perhaps subject to a maximum number k of auto fill addressees .

If however the sender is not directly connected to members of any community or is not connected to members of at least a threshold number or percentage of identified communities the addressee field may be auto populated with one or more addressees that are determined to be able and or likely to forward the content items such that they will enter one or more communities. For example all of the sending member s immediate neighbors in his her neighborhood N may be analyzed to determine which are most closely connected to members of the communities which are most likely to forward a message e.g. based on past message histories which are most closely related to target recipients and or community members i.e. based on similarities with the criteria used to select target recipients communities etc.

After operation the method may end or may return to operation if and when a recipient of this message chooses to forward the content item.

In operation the content item is being sent by a member of an identified community and the system will act to further the distribution of the item within that community and especially to target recipients within the community. In particular if the item has not yet been delivered to all members of the community the system will identify one or more fellow community members with which to auto populate the addressee field. Community members who have already received the content item may be eliminated from consideration and the maximum number of auto populated addressees e.g. k may be different from other situations e.g. when a non community member is sending the content item as in operation .

In some implementations for the purpose of selecting addressees community members may be ranked in terms of their connectedness based on their number of first degree connections that are also within the community the percentage of all of their first degree connections that are with other members of the community and or members of other identified communities their centrality measures and or other factors. The message s addressee field is then auto populated with some number of community members e.g. the k members with the top rankings assuming not all of them have already received it.

In some situations operation and or operation above may terminate without auto population of a message. For example by the time this erstwhile sender initiates a message there may be no suitable paths toward a target recipient that do not involve sending the message to someone who has already received the content item.

After the message is sent the method may end or may return to operation if and when a recipient of the message chooses to forward the content item.

In some embodiments if the first member to send the selected content item is within one of the identified communities in order to allow the item to reach other communities a special allowance may be made to auto populate the member s message with addressees outside of that community if more than one community has been identified . Similarly if the first sender is not within any of the communities his or her message may be auto populated with any number of addressees i.e. no limit and or may not be restrained by any maximum hop count restriction for reaching a community.

In some other embodiments if a given sender of the selected content item is not a member of an identified community and is not directly connected to or within a maximum number of hops of a community member some other method or methods may be applied to identify addressees for auto populating the message with suitable addressees e.g. the value function approach discussed above the inverted Steiner tree approach discussed below .

A third method of selecting addressees with which to automatically populate a message that conveys a selected content item is termed an inverted Steiner tree method. A focus of this approach is getting a content item to target recipients via few hops e.g. using the fewest possible number of messages having auto populated addressee fields .

In operation a content item is identified for which auto population of message addressee fields is to be applied. The item may be selected by a member may be selected by the system e.g. an operator of the system a recommendation engine or by some other entity. An item may be selected because a member or other user is sponsoring its distribution because the system is doing so as a public service or to enhance its members experiences with the service and or for some other reason.

In operation one or more target recipients are identified. As discussed above this may be performed in virtually any manner using any suitable method and may be performed by the same system that will auto populate message addressee fields or by some other entity.

For example weights may computed for possible target recipients and the identified target recipients may be some number or percentage of possible target recipients having the highest weights. Alternatively criteria may be specified for identifying target recipients and the identified target recipients may include all members who match or sufficiently match the criteria.

In the illustrated embodiment identifying target recipients yields binary results each member is or is not a target recipient and may be weighted accordingly e.g. 0 or 1 respectively .

In operation a current possessor of the content initiates a message to send or forward the selected content item.

In operation the system begins a process of identifying suitable addressees with which to automatically populate the message. This method is termed an inverted Steiner tree because the system searches for a minimum number of nodes that connects the message sender to the target recipients so that a minimum number of auto populated messages will be required to reach all target recipients.

More particularly in operation the system identifies the smallest set of all members that connects the current sender to all target recipients that have not yet received the selected content item. Illustratively all member subsets that connect the current sender to the remaining target recipients may be examined and the smallest one is selected or one of the smallest if there is a tie . An illustrative process for identifying a minimal set of members necessary to forward the content item from the current sender to all target recipients is described below other processes may be applied in other embodiments.

In operation the intersection of the current sender s immediate neighbors N and the set of members identified in operation is determined if any.

In operation if the intersection is null the system may proceed to operation and refrain from auto populating the message with any addressees. Alternatively a different scheme may be applied for this sender e.g. value function community propagation .

Otherwise in operation up to k members in the intersection determined in operation are selected. If the intersection includes more than k members members may be selected randomly by member weights by applying a value function or in some other manner. After operation the method ends.

In some embodiments an inverted Steiner tree process for identifying a minimal set of members through which a content item can be delivered to all target recipients from a current sender S proceeds as follows. As indicated above N S represents neighbors of sender S within the member network.

First a set M of members to reach is initialized to an empty set and a reward function R i wherein i is a member of the member network is initialized to the value 1 for target recipients of the content item and the value 0 for all other members. Then as long as R S 

First the most valuable member in the member network is added to M. In some implementations the most valuable member is the member j who yields the maximum value V 

The indicated distance function yields the shortest path between a member j and either S or a member of M.

Third reward functions for each neighbor i of member j are reset. In particular for each neighbor i R i 0.

Finally when S chooses to send or forward the content item all neighbors of S who are in the set M are automatically inserted as addressees. It may be noted that neighbors of S i.e. members of N S who are target recipients may not be added to the set M but they will be automatically added as addressees.

In methods of automatically populating messages for conveying selected content items as described herein different techniques may be applied to determine when to stop the auto population. In some embodiments the success of a campaign to distribute a content item to or among target recipients may be measured or estimated based on the observed tendency of recipients of the item to initiate messages to forward or re convey it. That is a relatively successful campaign will involve more transmissions and re transmissions of a selected content item than a relatively unsuccessful campaign. The more successful a campaign involving a given content item is at any given time e.g. when a member initiates a message to transmit the item the more likely the system may be to continue auto populating senders messages with strategically selected addressees.

Benchmark graph demonstrates probabilities of transmission re transmission of a generic content item over time. In particular the x axis of the graph is indexed by time while the y axis represents probabilities that a member who possesses the content item will initiate a message to further distribute it. For example point indicates that 30 of all members who had possessed the content item for the period of time corresponding to time thad forwarded or re conveyed it.

Benchmark graph may represent some or all previous campaigns to distribute selected content items via messages whose addressee fields were auto populated and the actual frequencies or rates with which the items were conveyed. For example in some implementations selected content items may be categorized by type media target audience criteria sponsor and or any other applicable characteristic. Separate benchmark graphs may be assembled for each category of content item to indicate the actual performance of recipients regarding re transmission of the item.

Then when a campaign for a given selected content item is underway its actual performance can be compared to a benchmark that relates to or encompasses the content item. For example graphs illustrate performances of campaigns for relatively successful and relatively unsuccessful campaigns respectively in relation to benchmark graph for content items within the same category or categories represented by graph . As the graphs indicate the content item associated with graph enjoyed higher popularity than the content item associated with graph in that more members who possessed it actually forwarded it.

Thus at an illustrative current time t the fact that the campaign corresponding to graph outperforms benchmark graph may support continued execution of the campaign while the lagging performance of the campaign corresponding to graph may justify its termination.

The performance of a campaign might be evaluated periodically such as every day and a determination made whether to continue. For example as long as the actual performance exceeds some percentage of the benchmark e.g. 60 100 it may continue. Some campaigns however may have express minimum or maximum periods of time that they will run and or have other applicable criteria for determining whether to continue such as a minimum number or percentage of target recipients that must be reached a maximum number of automatically populated messages a maximum number of hops from an originating member etc.

Some specific schemes discussed above may have unique methods or mechanisms for determining when to terminate a campaign. For example a total value may be specified for a campaign that employs a value function approach. In particular a target total value may be identified that represents the accumulated values of all recipients of auto populated messages. Thus a sum is continually updated as auto populated messages are delivered to new recipients with each of those recipients having a calculated value as discussed above. When that sum matches or exceeds the target total value the campaign may terminate e.g. if that is the only termination criterion specified for the campaign .

In a community propagation approach termination may be automatic within a given community once all members of the community have received the selected content item. Therefore the content item s campaign may run for different periods of time within different communities.

Apparatus of comprises processor s memory and storage which may comprise one or more optical solid state and or magnetic storage components. Storage may be local or remote to the apparatus. Apparatus may be coupled permanently or temporarily to keyboard pointing device and display . Multiple apparatuses may operate in parallel to cooperate in campaigns to distribute selected content items and storage may be shared among them or may represent their combined secondary storage resources.

Storage stores logic that may be loaded into memory for execution by processor s . Such logic includes message interface logic and addressee selection logic . In other embodiments these logic modules and or other content may be combined or divided to aggregate or separate their functionality as desired.

Message interface logic comprises processor executable instructions for adding one or more selected addressees to a member generated or member initiated message. Logic may therefore include appropriate APIs for interacting with message application logic e.g. an electronic mail program an instant message program a chat program to deliver the addressee information receiving notification that a member has initiated a message with a selected content item attached or included etc. In some embodiments apparatus may host or comprise the message application logic.

Addressee selection logic comprises processor executable instructions for selecting one or more addressees with which to automatically populate a member generated message to convey a selected content item. As discussed above logic may implement just one scheme for selecting addressees or may implement multiple different schemes e.g. value function community propagation inverted Steiner tree .

Storage may also contain data ancillary to implementation of one or more methods of selecting and automatically populating addressee fields with suitable addressees. Such data may include criteria for identifying target recipients for identifying communities that encompass target recipients and or for other purposes. These criteria may include member attributes characteristics of selected content items and or other data.

Storage may also contain operating parameters that are not maintained by logic which may include data for determining whether and when to terminate a campaign for distributing a selected content item weights values of members identities of communities that members belong to operating constraints restrictions and so on.

In some embodiments of the invention data apparatus performs most or all of the functions described in relation to data server and possibly message server of . In some particular implementations apparatus may host multiple virtual computer servers performing the functions of servers and or others of .

An environment in which some embodiments described above are executed may incorporate a general purpose computer or a special purpose device such as a hand held computer or communication device. Some details of such devices e.g. processor memory data storage display may be omitted for the sake of clarity. A component such as a processor or memory to which one or more tasks or functions are attributed may be a general component temporarily configured to perform the specified task or function or may be a specific component manufactured to perform the task or function. The term processor as used herein refers to one or more electronic circuits devices chips processing cores and or other components configured to process data and or computer program code.

Data structures and program code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. Non transitory computer readable storage media include but are not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs and DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs solid state drives and or other non transitory computer readable media now known or later developed.

Methods and processes described in the detailed description can be embodied as code and or data which may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium as described above. When a processor or computer system reads and executes the code and manipulates the data stored on the medium the processor or computer system performs the methods and processes embodied as code and data structures and stored within the medium.

Furthermore the methods and processes may be programmed into hardware modules such as but not limited to application specific integrated circuit ASIC chips field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and other programmable logic devices now known or hereafter developed. When such a hardware module is activated it performs the methods and processed included within the module.

The foregoing embodiments have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit this disclosure to the forms disclosed. Accordingly many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. The scope is defined by the appended claims not the preceding disclosure.

