---

title: Initiation of wireless service
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for implementing wireless service for a wireless device. In a representative embodiment, a service initiation system is executed in a computing device that communicates with a service provider system over a network to activate a wireless service associated with a newly purchased wireless device. The service initiation system also generates a network page to send to a client over the network, where the network page has a component that initiates a porting of a contact designation associated with a prior wireless device to the newly purchased wireless device separate from the activation of the wireless service for the newly purchased wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232388&OS=09232388&RS=09232388
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09232388
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150127
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 849 007 filed Mar. 22 2013 entitled Initiation of Wireless Service which is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 618 872 filed Sep. 14 2012 entitled Initiation of Wireless Service now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 423 061 which is a division of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 771 709 filed Apr. 30 2010 entitled Initiation of Wireless Service now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 364 146 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety their entireties.

The purchase of wireless devices such as cellular telephones can be technologically difficult to achieve over the Internet due to the fact that service needs to be activated for a wireless device and often a telephone number needs to be ported from a previously existing cellular telephone. For example users may often wish to delay the porting of a telephone number until they are able to transfer contact information and other data from their old cellular telephone.

This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 618 872 filed Sep. 14 2012 entitled Initiation of Wireless Service now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 423 061 which is a division of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 771 709 filed Apr. 30 2010 entitled Initiation of Wireless Service now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 364 146 which is are hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety their entireties.

In the following discussion various systems and methods are described to achieve the porting of a contact designation such as a telephone number for a newly purchased wireless device separate from the activation of service for such device. Specifically a customer defined delay may be imposed between activation of service and the porting of a contact designation as will be described. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes one or more computing devices one or more client devices and a plurality of carrier servers each of which is coupled to a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device s may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may comprise for example a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be dispersed among many different geographical locations. In one embodiment the computing device represents a virtualized computer system executing on one or more physical computing systems. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing device include for example an electronic commerce system and other systems applications services processes engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The electronic commerce system is executed in order to facilitate the online purchase of items such as for example wireless devices over the network . Such wireless devices may comprise for example personal digital assistants cellular telephones computers and other devices. However it is understood that the electronic commerce system may ultimately facilitate the purchase of any type of item. The electronic commerce system also performs various backend functions associated with the online presence of a merchant in order to facilitate the online purchase of items as will be described. For example the electronic commerce system generates network pages such as web pages or other types of network content that are provided to client devices in response to requests for the purposes of selecting items for purchase rental download lease or other form of consumption and to perform other tasks as will be described. Among other applications the electronic commerce system includes a service initiation application that is executed in order to establish service for a wireless device as will be described.

The data stored in the data store includes for example a catalog that includes a listing of various items such as for example wireless devices and potentially other data. In addition the catalog includes a listing of service plans that may be sold in association with respective ones of the wireless devices . The service plans are offered by various service providers. For example a service plan may involve wireless service for a wireless device . In one embodiment a wireless device may be sold in association with a given service plan as a package deal or they may be sold separately. Ultimately once a wireless device and a service plan are sold a user may activate the wireless service for a wireless device through various network pages served up by the service initiation application as will be described.

Also stored in the data store are customer accounts that include various information associated with customers that purchase items through the electronic commerce system . Such information may include customer name shipping addresses billing addresses payment instruments shopping carts wish lists and other information associated with customers as can be appreciated.

The client device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone set top box music players web pads tablet computer systems or other devices with like capability. The client device includes a display device upon which various network pages and other content may be rendered.

The client device may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser application and or other applications. The browser application may be executed in a client device for example to access and render network pages such as web pages or other network content served up by the computing device and or other servers. The client device may be configured to execute applications beyond browser application such as for example email applications instant message applications and or other applications.

In addition each of the carrier servers is operated by a service carrier so as to provide service for example to a wireless device in accordance with a service plan purchased by the customer. Each carrier operates for example a wireless network to provide wireless service to the wireless device . Each carrier maintains an application programming interface API to facilitate communication with outside entities who sell service plans of the respective carrier. Specifically once a service plan associated with a given carrier is sold then the service initiation application communicates with the corresponding carrier server through the respective API in order to activate the service for the wireless device and to port a contact designation such as a telephone number from a previous wireless device to the recently purchased wireless device as will be described.

Next a general description that provides one example of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin it is assumed that a customer has purchased a wireless device through the electronic commerce system as described above. In addition it is further assumed that the user has purchased a service plan in order to provide for wireless communication through the wireless device . The service plan may be provided by any one of a number of different wireless carriers as can be appreciated.

During the order checkout process the user is required to enter any porting information for the wireless device to be purchased. The porting information may comprise for example the name of a current wireless service provider for the old wireless device an account number associated with such service the telephone number or other contact designation to be ported and the name of the customer who purchased the service for the previous wireless device . In addition there may be other information required from the user in the porting information.

It is understood that the porting information may vary depending upon the carrier that provides wireless service to the previously owned wireless device . For example some carriers may require more information whereas others may require less. Thus the porting information required to be entered by a user in order to port a contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device may depend upon the service provider of the service plan applied to the previously owned wireless device .

When the porting information including a contact designation such as a telephone number is input the electronic commerce system may perform a check to determine whether the contact designation can be ported at all. That is to say that some contact designations such as telephone numbers cannot be ported for various reasons. As such the user is thus informed before the checkout process is complete whether they can use a prior contact designation with a new wireless device .

Once the purchase is consummated the wireless service under the service plan needs to be activated so that the wireless device may be used for its purpose such as for example making telephone calls sending and receiving wireless data communications and other activities. In order to activate a wireless service a service call may be made to the carrier server associated with the respective wireless carrier through the API presented by that carrier. Such a service call is formatted according to the requirements of the API of the wireless carrier as can be appreciated. Once service is activated then typically the wireless device may be employed to make emergency calls such as those made through a 911 system. The wireless device may be afforded a temporary contact designation such as a telephone number for use unless such telephone number is to be the primary number for the wireless device .

Specifically for example if a customer already owns a wireless device and they wish to purchase a new wireless device as a replacement the customer may already have a contact designation such as a telephone number that they used in conjunction with the prior wireless device that they would like to continue to use with the new wireless device . Alternatively the user may not have previously owned a wireless device and may not actually have a contact designation to use. As such the contact designation provided upon activation of the wireless device may be designated as the primary contact designation to be used with such device as can be appreciated. In other embodiments the wireless service upon activation may not provide for inbound communication to the wireless device until the contact designation from the previously owned wireless device is ported to the newly purchased wireless device as can be appreciated.

In order to employ a previously existing contact designation such as a telephone number with a newly purchased wireless device the contact designation from the previously existing wireless device needs to be ported to the new wireless device . To do so the service initiation application may generate one or more network pages in response to requests from the browser application or other application on the client device that are rendered on an appropriate display device of the client device that facilitates a user input to indicate their desire to port the respective telephone number from their old wireless device to the new wireless device .

Upon receiving such information and an indication that the user wishes to port the contact designation to the new wireless device the service initiation application as part of the electronic commerce system proceeds to send a message to the appropriate carrier server of the respective wireless carrier in accordance with the API specified by such wireless carrier in order to implement the porting of the contact designation to the new wireless device .

Upon receipt of such message the wireless carrier then proceeds to take action to port the contact designation to the new wireless device . After this initial message is sent then further messages may be sent by the service initiation application to verify whether the porting of the contact designation has been successfully implemented. Such requests may also conform with the API specified by the respective wireless carrier.

According to various embodiments there may be several different approaches taken for the activation of wireless service for a respective wireless device under a given service plan . For example the merchant selling the wireless device may activate the wireless service by having the service initiation application send the message to the carrier server of the respective wireless carrier to activate the wireless service before the wireless device is shipped to a customer. In an additional alternative such a message may be sent to cause the activation of the wireless service for the wireless device after a predefined period after the wireless device has been shipped to the customer. This would provide an allowance for time spent by the wireless device in transit to the customer such that they are not paying for wireless service before they actually receive the wireless device or so that activation occurs in such time so as to minimize the time that the customer does not actually have the wireless device after activation.

In this manner the activation of the wireless service for a given wireless device may be automatic. As an alternative one or more network pages may be served up to the client device associated with a respective customer that provides for a customer initiation of the activation of wireless service for one or more newly purchased wireless devices . In this respect such network pages may include various components that may be manipulated by a user causing a message to be sent back to the service initiation application indicating that the user wishes for the wireless service to be activated.

In addition according to various embodiments subsequent network pages may be generated by the service initiation application at the request of the client device in order to port a contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device . In one embodiment the network page may be served up with one or more components to facilitate initiation of the porting of the contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device separately from any network pages that facilitate activation of the wireless service associated with the wireless device . This advantageously allows a customer to cause the porting of the contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device at a time of their choosing.

In one embodiment the porting of the contact designation as such is noncontemporaneous with the activation of the wireless service associated with the wireless device . That is to say the activation does not occur during the same short period of time or at the same time as the porting of the contact designation. Thus the service initiation system is advantageously configured to accommodate a random delay imposed by the user between the activation of the wireless service associated with the wireless device and the porting of the contact designation previously used by the customer. This allows a user time to program contact information and potentially other information into the new wireless device from the old wireless device as can be appreciated.

In still another embodiment a network page may be served up to a customer that facilitates both activation of wireless service and the porting of a contact designation for a given wireless device at the same time. In such case the customer is given the option of determining when they would like to activate the service and port a contact designation based on their own requirements. This advantageously allows a user to activate service and port a contact designation at the time of their choosing thereby allowing the customer to transfer contact information and do any other needed functions before activating service and porting a telephone number.

With reference to shown is one example of a network page denoted herein as network page that is generated by the service initiation application of the electronic commerce system according to one embodiment. The network page includes an activation component associated with each wireless device purchased by a user. Also the network page includes an order summary that lists particulars about a given order including information about the customer the logistical information for the order e.g. addresses and payment and information about detailed charges rendered for the purchase of the respective wireless devices and service plans associated therewith.

The order summary also includes a statement of an incentive provided by the merchant for users both to activate the wireless service and to port a contact designation to their newly purchased wireless devices through the network portal presented by the electronic commerce system and specifically the service initiation application . The incentive may comprise a monetary incentive such as for example a refund of at least part of a price for the purchase of one or more wireless devices . The incentive may also comprise a reduction in the price of a service plan or some other benefit as can be appreciated. According to one embodiment the user may redeem the incentives by activating the wireless service and or by porting a contact designation through the network portal provided by the electronic commerce system and the service initiation application .

According to one embodiment if a user manipulates the activate component with respect to a given wireless device then an executable portion of the network page sends a message back to the service initiation application that causes the service initiation application to initiate the activation of the wireless service for the respective wireless device . In response the service initiation application proceeds to send an appropriate message to a given carrier server associated with a respective carrier through the specified API in order to activate service for such wireless device .

In addition any incentives may be applied to the account of the user in the case that the redemption of such incentives occurs upon activation of the respective wireless device . Where more than one wireless device is purchased it may be the case that a user must implement the activation of the wireless service for all of the wireless devices purchased before incentives are redeemed. Thus each activation component is listed for each respective wireless device in order to activate the wireless service for such wireless devices . Alternatively a single activation component may be associated with a whole group of wireless devices and may correspondingly provide for the activation of all wireless devices in the group.

According to one embodiment the activation component is a pushbutton. Alternatively the activation component may comprise many different types of graphical components that achieve its underlying purpose as can be appreciated.

Referring next to shown is one example of a network page denoted herein as network page according to another embodiment. The network page includes a portion that provides for the porting of a contact designation for a previously existing wireless device to a newly purchased wireless device . To this end the network page includes porting components that comprise pushbuttons or other graphical components that may be manipulated to initiate the porting of a contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device . Associated with each porting component is a listing of a wireless device recently purchased where the porting information needed to port a contact designation for the wireless device was input by the user during checkout as mentioned above.

In order to port a contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device the user may manipulate the respective porting component . This causes the network page to send a message to the service initiation application . Such message comprises a request to initiate the porting of the respective contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device . Thereafter the service initiation application sends a message to the respective carrier server of the respective carrier in accordance with the API associated with such carrier requesting to implement the porting of the respective contact designation.

With reference to shown is another example of a network page denoted herein as network page according to another embodiment. The network page includes a portion that provides for both the activation of wireless service and the porting of a contact designation from a previously existing wireless device to a newly purchased wireless device . To this end the network page includes activation and porting components that comprise pushbuttons or other graphical components that may be manipulated to initiate the activation of wireless service and the porting of a contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device . Associated with each activation and porting component is a listing of a wireless device recently purchased where porting information needed to port a contact designation for the wireless device was input by the user during checkout as mentioned above.

The network page also includes the incentives to entice a customer to activate wireless service and port a contact designation through the electronic commerce system that facilitates the purchase of the wireless device . This ensures that the seller of the wireless device will get credit for the sale and any commissions for such sale from the wireless service providers as can be appreciated.

In order to activate wireless service and port a contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device the user may manipulate the respective activation and porting component . This causes the network page to send a message to the service initiation application . Such message comprises a request to initiate the activation of wireless service and the porting of the respective contact designation to the newly purchased wireless device . Thereafter the service initiation application sends a message to the respective carrier server of the respective carrier in accordance with the API associated with such carrier requesting activation of wireless service and requesting the porting of the respective contact designation. In one embodiment the network page advantageously places control of initiation of activation and porting into the hands of the customer who purchased the wireless device . Consequently the customer is allowed to initiate the activation of the wireless service and the porting of the contact designation at a time of their choosing.

Also this approach facilitates an initiation of the activation and porting at a time that is noncontemporaneous with respect to the actual time of purchase of the wireless device through the electronic commerce system . As a result customers advantageously maintain control over when activation and porting occur in association with the purchase of a new wireless device .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the service initiation application in activating a wireless service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the depicted functionality of the service initiation application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

To begin it is assumed that one or more wireless devices and service plans have been purchased through the electronic commerce system . It is understood that it is possible that multiple wireless devices may be purchased that all operate under a single service plan . Assuming that the purchase is completed then wireless service needs to be activated and any porting of a contact designation needs to be performed.

In box the service initiation application waits for an activation event to occur. An activation event comprises an event that indicates that the wireless service associated with one or more wireless devices is to be activated as described above. An activation event may occur for example upon detection of a shipping of the device upon detection of the passing of a predefined period of time after a wireless device has been shipped or upon a detection that a user has manipulated an activation component in order to implement the activation of the wireless service for a respective wireless device as mentioned above. Alternatively activation events may comprise an occurrence of some other event.

Assuming that an activation event has been detected in box then the service initiation application proceeds to box in order to generate a message to send to a respective carrier server to activate service for a respective wireless device . The service initiation application may receive an acknowledgement from the carrier. Also the service initiation application may receive confirmations from the carrier indicating that the activation of the wireless service for one or more wireless devices has been completed.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the service initiation application in porting a contact designation such as a telephone number according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the depicted functionality of the service initiation application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

To begin in order to port a contact designation such as a telephone number to a newly purchased wireless device in box the service initiation application generates and serves up the network page to present the porting component in order to initiate the porting of the contact designation. Thereafter in box the service initiation application determines whether the porting of the contact designation is to be initiated. This is determined by detecting that the porting component has been manipulated such that a message was received from the respective client device as mentioned above. Assuming that the porting of the contact designation is to proceed then in box the service initiation application may apply any particular incentive to be applied to a user account if applicable. Alternatively box may not exist where incentives are not applied.

Thereafter in box the service initiation application generates a message to send to a respective carrier to implement the porting of the contact designation for the wireless device . Such message includes the porting information as described above. Then in box the service initiation application implements a delay before determining whether the porting was successful. Then in box the service initiation application sends a status request to the respective carrier to determine whether the porting was successful. In box if the porting was successful then the service initiation application proceeds to box . Otherwise it reverts back to box as described above.

In box the service initiation application may implement a confirmation protocol to inform the user that the porting of the contact designation for the respective wireless device was successful. This may comprise for example making an automated call to the wireless device associated with the user sending an email to an appropriate email address designated by the customer or taking some other action as can be appreciated. Thereafter this portion of the service initiation application ends.

By virtue of the approach employed to activate a wireless service and port a contact designation separately as described above the customer maintains control of the implementation of the wireless service and the porting of a contact designation so that they can transfer any information from an obsolete wireless device and potentially perform other tasks before the new wireless device is ready to use.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the service initiation application in both activating wireless service and porting a contact designation such as a telephone number according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the depicted functionality of the service initiation application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

To begin in order to both activate a wireless service and port a contact designation such as a telephone number to a newly purchased wireless device in box the service initiation application generates and serves up the network page to present the porting component in order to initiate the activation of wireless service and the porting of the contact designation. Thereafter in box the service initiation application determines whether the activation and porting are to be initiated. This is determined by detecting whether the porting component has been manipulated such that a message was received from the respective client device as mentioned above. Assuming that the activation and porting are to proceed then in box the service initiation application may apply any particular incentive to be applied to a user account if applicable to entice the user to implement activation and porting through the electronic commerce system . Alternatively box may not exist where incentives are not applied.

Thereafter in box the service initiation application generates a message to send to a respective carrier to both implement the activation of wireless service and the porting of the contact designation for the wireless device . Such message may include any needed information about the wireless device and the porting information. Then in box the service initiation application implements a delay before determining whether the activation and porting were successful. Then in box the service initiation application sends a status request to the respective carrier to determine whether the activation and porting were successful. In box if the activation and porting were successful then the service initiation application proceeds to box . Otherwise it reverts back to box as described above.

In box the service initiation application may implement a confirmation protocol to inform the user that the activation and porting of the contact designation for the respective wireless device were successful. This may comprise for example making an automated call to the wireless device associated with the user sending an email to an appropriate email address designated by the customer or taking some other action as can be appreciated. Thereafter this portion of the service initiation application ends.

By virtue of the approach employed to activate a wireless service and port a contact designation separately as described above the customer maintains control of the implementation of the wireless service and the porting of a contact designation so that they can transfer any information from an obsolete wireless device and potentially perform other tasks before the new wireless device is ready to use.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the electronic commerce system including the service initiation application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processors as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java Java Script Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the electronic commerce system and more specifically the service initiation application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of and show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the service initiation application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of and show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in and may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in and may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the electronic commerce system and more specifically the service initiation application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

