---

title: Application installation system
abstract: A method, system and computer program product for generating a list of applications available for installation on a user terminal is disclosed. In one aspect, a catalogue server identifies a first and a second installation control setting corresponding to an application on the basis of user identification data from a data store comprising entries for a plurality of applications and their corresponding installation control settings. Subsequently, the catalogue server determines installation control data for at least one of the first and second application on the basis of the first and the second installation control setting. The determined installation control data is used to generate the list of application available for installation on the user terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600257&OS=09600257&RS=09600257
owner: Good Technology Holdings Limited
number: 09600257
owner_city: Waterloo, ON
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150528
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 277 051 filed Oct. 19 2011 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to the field of software applications for user terminals and provides methods systems and computer program products for controlling the installation of applications on such terminals.

Application distribution systems may facilitate the distribution of software applications to user terminals. A user may connect to an application portal such as the Apple App Store or Android Marketplace via their user terminal whereupon they are presented with a selection of applications available for download and installation. Entitlement to applications may be determined on the basis of whether the user associated with the user terminal has paid for the given application if necessary . Thus a given user s entitlement to access and download applications is determined on the basis of whether funds have been received for the application. This mechanism does not permit parties such as application providers to control provisioning of applications.

In addition to application provisioning to individual user devices Application distribution systems may also facilitate bulk distribution of applications. For example the Apple B2B App Store provides a number of redemption codes for use by individual user devices in downloading of a corresponding application. However management of redemption codes is cumbersome and error prone.

Enterprises may also maintain their own application distribution systems for distributing applications to user devices connected thereto in which entitlement to applications is determined on the basis of enterprise provided user or device authentication credentials. However maintaining enterprise specific application distribution systems is costly. In addition such enterprise specific application distribution systems may not be compatible with certain devices such as iPhone whose manufacturer insists on controlling application provisioning via their own application distribution systems.

Application distribution systems additionally do not have any mechanisms of managing the persistence of distributed applications and as a consequence enterprises are unable to reuse licenses.

It is an objective of the present disclosure to provide improved methods for controlling the access to applications on user terminals.

In accordance with aspects of the disclosure there is provided a method for controlling the installation of applications on a user terminal on the basis of user identification data for a user associated with said user terminal according to the appended claims. Some additional features are set out in the dependent claims.

In one exemplary embodiment there is provided a method for controlling the installation of applications on a user terminal on the basis of user identification data for a user associated with said user terminal the method comprising accessing a data store said data store comprising entries for a plurality of applications and corresponding installation control settings associated with said plurality of applications identifying on the basis of said user identification data at least a first installation control setting for a first of said plurality of applications identifying on the basis of said user identification data at least a second installation control setting for a second of said plurality of applications determining installation control data for at least one of said first and second applications on the basis of at least said first installation control setting and at least said second installation control setting and transmitting an installation control message to control installation of at least one of said first and second applications on said user terminal said installation control message comprising said installation control data.

In a first arrangement the first and second installation control settings are associated with the same application and the determined installation control data relates to installation of this same application. An advantage of this exemplary embodiment for this arrangement is that a plurality of different installation control settings can be taken into account when determining the installation control data for a particular user in relation to a particular application thereby potentially allowing a number of sources to influence the determination of the installation control data through independent control of the various installation control settings.

For example entities such as an application developer enterprise network equipment manufacturer wireless services provider etc. may influence the installation of applications on user devices by specifying installation control settings for the particular application and these different installation control settings collectively determine the installation control data for the particular application. This provides an advantage over conventional mechanisms where installation control can only be exercised by means of a redemption code or by provisioning applications from an enterprise specific application distribution system.

Further since installation control settings can be controlled independently of application provisioning this embodiment enables installation control after application provisioning.

In a second arrangement the first and second applications are different and installation control data is therefore generated for one of the first and second applications on the basis of an installation control setting associated with the other of the first and second applications in this example the installation control data takes account of the respective control settings and can prevent installation of incompatible applications. For example the installation control data can be generated on the basis of presence of a control settings corresponding to an application that has already been installed on the device a so called pre existing application . This embodiment is particularly useful when applications that are available for download originate from a disparate source of software applications such as the aforementioned list comprising application developer enterprise network and where the device is shipped with various pre existing applications in accordance with installation of the equipment manufacturer.

Advantageously the first installation control setting may be associated with a first plurality of users each of the first plurality of users having a common grouping characteristic. The second installation control setting may be associated with a second plurality of users at least some of which are different to the first plurality of users each of the second plurality of users having a second common grouping characteristic different to the first common grouping characteristic. Hence the installation control settings may be configured for multiple users simultaneously based on some shared grouping characteristics such as enterprise associated therewith or users of a given application and different grouping characteristics may be applied. An application provider may control their installation control setting whereby to allow installation of an application on user devices associated with an enterprise network who may subsequently control their installation control setting to allow installation of the application on all or some user devices associated therewith thereby enabling efficient application bulk distribution.

In a further arrangement the determination of installation control data comprises selecting between at least the first installation control setting and the second installation control setting according to one or more predetermined selection criteria. The one or more predetermined selection criteria may have the effect of one of the installation control settings being selected in preference one or more other installation control settings.

Advantageously the one or more predetermined selection criteria may tend to select a more restrictive installation control setting. Hence if any installation control setting seeks to restrict access to an application for a given user then access may be restricted for that user regardless of whether a different installation control setting would tend to allow access to the same application for the same user. For users that belong to an enterprise the selection criteria can be specified by the enterprise in which case and irrespective of other sources of applications to which the user has subscribed the enterprise has ultimate control over which applications can be installed on their user devices.

In a yet further arrangement available settings for the installation control settings include a default setting and one or more further settings wherein the determination of said installation control data comprises selecting one of the one or more further settings in preference to the default setting if both one of said one or more further settings and the default setting are present in the first installation control setting and the second installation control setting. This feature is particularly well suited to instances in which an installation control setting has not been used to set a preference to the level of access to an application that should be afforded in this situation other installation control settings may be considered in preference.

Available settings for said installation control settings may include a default setting and one or more further settings wherein said determination of said installation control data comprises including installation control data which indicates access is to be denied to a given application if said first installation control setting comprises a default setting and said second installation control setting also comprises a default setting. In this way it can be ensured that access to a given application should be granted by at least one of the installation control settings in order for the associated user terminal to be able to install the application.

The installation control settings may include at least one of a setting allowing the user terminal to install an application a setting denying the user terminal a right to install an application a setting suspending access to an application if previously installed a setting continuing access to an application if previously installed a setting forcing the user terminal to install an application and a default installation control setting.

The installation control data may include at least one of a setting allowing the user terminal to install an application a setting denying the user terminal a right to install an application a setting suspending access to an application if previously installed a setting continuing access to an application if previously installed a setting forcing the user terminal to install an application and a default installation control setting

In response to receiving an installation request message from the user terminal requesting access to an identified application the method may comprise determining installation control data in relation to said identified application facilitating installation of said requested application on said user terminal in accordance with said determined installation control data. On the other hand if a user tries to access an application to which they are not entitled access to and installation of that application may be denied for that user.

The method may comprise monitoring said data store for updates to said installation control settings identifying one or more updated installation control settings associated with one or more of said plurality of applications and determining installation control data for one or more of said plurality of applications on the basis of at least said one or more updated installation control settings. Hence if a change is effected in relation to an installation control setting the corresponding installation control data can be recalculated automatically.

Embodiments may provide efficient version management for applications by means of maintaining a list of applications installed on said user terminal comparing said one or more applications having updated installation control settings to said list of applications installed on said user terminal and transmitting an installation control update message to said user terminal said installation control update message comprising installation control data generated on the basis of said comparison. Hence when installation control data is updated for a given application a message can be sent to any user terminal that is affected by the change. This mitigates the need for the user terminal to poll the data store to determine when a change to the installation control data occurs. Additionally this arrangement permits a connected entity such as enterprise networks to control persistence of installed applications on user devices associated therewith.

In some embodiments the comparison step comprises identifying from among said applications having updated installation control data one or more applications which are listed in said list of applications installed on said user terminal. Hence a user terminal can be informed when the installation control data changes for an application that it has currently installed.

In some embodiments said installation control update message is configured to cause access to one or more of said identified applications to be terminated on said user terminal. Hence access to an installed application can be quickly prevented from running on a user terminal after an administrative control role has updated an installation control setting to invoke such a denial of access.

Advantageously said comparison may comprise identifying from among said applications having updated installation control data one or more applications having an updated installation control setting indicating that installation should be forced on said user terminal and which are not listed on said list of applications installed by said user terminal. As a result installation of an application can for example be quickly forced on a user terminal after an administrative control role has updated an installation control setting to invoke such a forced installation.

The data store may comprise entries for a plurality of versions of one or more of said plurality of applications and said at least a first and at least a second installation control settings comprise installation control settings associated with said plurality of versions.

In some embodiments said first installation control setting for a first version of an installed application is configured to deny or suspend access to said first version of said installed application and said second installation control setting for a second version of said installed application is configured to continue allow or force access to said second version of said installed application. As a result installation control data can be configured to force a user terminal to upgrade to a second version of an application depending on the combination of installation control settings applied.

Advantageously said first installation control setting for a first version of an installed application is configured to continue allow or force access to said first version of said installed application and said second installation control setting for a second version of said installed application is configured to deny or suspend access to said second version of said installed application. Installation control data can be configured to prevent a user terminal from upgrading to a second version of an application depending on the combination of installation control settings applied.

In some embodiments said first installation control setting for a first version of an installed application is configured to continue allow or force access to said first version of said installed application and said second installation control setting for a second version of said installed application is configured to continue allow or force access to said second version of said installed application. In embodiments in which these two installation control settings are used for comparison said installation control data is configured to allow a user terminal to upgrade to a second version of an application if desired depending on the combination of installation control settings applied.

Advantageously said first installation control setting for a first version of an installed application is configured to continue allow or force access to said first version of said installed application and said second installation control setting for a second version of said installed application is configured to force installation of said second version of said installed application. Hence installation control data can be configured to force a user terminal to upgrade to a new version of an application depending on the combination of installation control settings applied.

By utilizing installation control settings associated with different administrative control roles some embodiments enable the generation of installation control data derived from settings made using the different administrative control roles which governs the installation control relationship between a given user and a given application.

Further exemplary embodiments described herein are concerned with providing a server system and data store configured to interoperate so as to perform the above method and a computer program or a suite of computer programs comprising a set of instructions which when executed by a server system having access to a database holding user identification data and installation control settings corresponding to different applications causes the server system to perform the foregoing method steps.

Further features and advantages of embodiments of the invention will become apparent from the following description of some preferred embodiments of the invention given by way of example only which is made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Some embodiments of the invention are concerned with controlling installation and or persistence of applications on user devices. More specifically some embodiments are concerned with enabling entities connected with user devices or applications to control installation of applications on user devices. The processing involved in application provisioning and installation thereof on user devices is described in detail below but first an overview of a network environment within which some embodiments of the invention may operate are described with reference to which shows a block diagram illustrating a user terminal or user device or device communicably connected to an application distribution system hereinafter referred to as catalogue server or application installation control system .

The user terminal may be a portable electronic device comprising conventional hardware and being capable of installing software applications. The user terminal may be a mobile telephony device such as a smartphone a portable computer such as a tablet computer or a desktop computer. User terminal can communicate with catalogue server in order to browse and download available applications. The communication medium used for communications between the user terminal and catalogue server depends on the capabilities of the user terminal. For example the user terminal may communicate with network entities such as catalogue server via an internet connection using a packet based communication protocol such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . If user terminal is a wireless device the user terminal may communicate with network entities via a mobile telephony network for example using a cellular radio link or via other radio access networks for example using a WiFi or WiMax radio link.

The user of the user terminal is identified to the catalogue server by user identification data. The user identification data may comprise a separately assigned user identifier for example an email address associated with the user a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSISDN associated with the user or other identification data which is unique to an individual user. The user identification data can also or alternatively comprise a user identifier in the form of for example a unique code assigned by the catalogue server itself.

Catalogue server may be a single computing device or a cluster of devices at a single network node or distributed in different network locations and may be embodied in a single device or over a number of distributed devices. Catalogue data store includes a database which contains database entries for a number of different downloadable and installable software applications. The database may also store metadata associated with each application such as a title and short long description of the intended function of the application. Catalogue data store may be co located with catalogue server or alternatively may comprise a separate physical device in a same or different computer network.

The catalogue server when configured according to the embodiments of the invention provides an application distribution system suitable for use by enterprise networks in particular. The catalogue server maintains installation control settings corresponding to users and applications that are made available for possible download to enterprise user terminals . These installation control settings are for use in determining installation control data for such applications as explained at a high level with reference to which illustrates two exemplary database entries held in catalogue data store . As can be seen application identifier AppID identifies the application to which the database entry relates while the user identifier UserID identifies the user to which the database entry relates. The Installation Control Setting defines the intended relationship between the corresponding application identified by AppID and corresponding user identified by UserID .

At step the catalogue server determines installation control data for one or both of the first and second applications on the basis of at least the retrieved first and second installation control settings. At step the catalogue server transmits an installation control message comprising the determined installation control data to a user terminal to control installation of at least one of the first and second applications thereon.

In the example shown in the installation control settings are allow and deny for the first and second applications respectively. The catalogue server thus determines that the first application can be installed while the second application cannot and creates installation control data accordingly. This enables installation control data to be determined in view of previously specified permissions data and provides a mechanism for collectively controlling installation and or persistence of two or more individual applications. As will be appreciated collective installation control may be beneficial in preventing installation of incompatible applications.

Any given application may have more than one installation control setting each having been configured by a different entity. For example for any given application there may be one installation control setting for users that are members of an enterprise network another installation control setting specifically configured for a given user and or other installation control settings configured by different entities such as enterprise network an application developer and an application provider.

Each installation control setting may be accessible and configurable by an entity having an administrative control role with respect to a given application. Each entity having an administrative control role may be given access to the catalogue server via a control interface provided on the catalogue server for example in the form of a web interface or an application programming interface API which allows an administrator access to the settings stored in the catalogue data store from a remote terminal connected to the catalogue server via a data communications network. An administrative control role provides a level of administrative control over the entitlement of users to install and run applications that is extended to particular individuals or entities associated with the administrative control role.

The entities corresponding to the administrative control roles may be of different types some of which are illustrated in . For example an enterprise administrator may have an administrative control role of an enterprise administrator type which controls which applications may be installed and run on devices associated with its users. A network operator or carrier administrator may have an administrative control role of a network operator administrator type which controls which applications may be installed and run on devices to which it provides communication services. A software developer administrator may have an administrative control role of a software developer administrator type which controls which users may install and run the applications which it develops. An independent software vendor ISV administrator may have an administrative control role of an ISV administrator type which controls which users may install and run the applications which it sells. Further the entity which maintains the installation control system itself may have an administrative control role of an installation control system administrator type which controls which applications may be installed and run all devices across the whole or parts of the installation control system. In addition an equipment manufacturer administrator may have an administrative control role of an equipment manufacturer administrator type which controls which users may install and run the applications on devices manufactured thereby. It will be appreciated that there may be other types of administrative control roles.

The administrative control entities via terminals or may configure installation control settings by communicating directly with the catalogue server . These administrative control terminals may communicate with the catalogue server via the internet once they have provided suitable credentials such as a username and password in order to verify their identity to the catalogue server and thereafter create and or modify their set of installation control settings.

Returning to in this example it is assumed that database entry results from configuration by a particular administrative control entity or to indicate that a user terminal associated with User A should be allowed access to a given application Application A . Database entry results from configuration by another administrative control entity or to indicate that a user terminal associated with the same user User A should be denied access to a different application Application B .

Several installation control settings may be used with the installation control system. A DENY setting indicates that installation of an application should not be allowed for the corresponding user and if the application is already installed the application should be deleted. A SUSPEND setting indicates that installation of an application should not be allowed for the corresponding user and if the application is already installed the application should be suspended but not deleted. A CONTINUE setting indicates that installation of an application should not be allowed for the corresponding user but if the application is already installed continuing use of the installed application should be allowed. A FORCE setting indicates that installation of an application should be mandatory for the corresponding user. An ALLOW setting indicates installation of an application be allowed for the corresponding user but should occur at the initiation of the user. A DEFAULT setting represents an initially undefined setting which is present before an administrative control role has set the installation control setting to a different setting. It should be noted that these settings are exemplary options for installation control settings and that any two or more of these different settings or indeed other settings may be used to implement an installation control system.

As described previously there may be more than one administrative control role capable of influencing the relationship between a given application and a given user. In order to reflect this each administrative control role may configure their own set of installation control settings.

Under these circumstances two or more administrative control roles may configure different installation control settings for the same user and application. To resolve such discrepancies some embodiments include an installation control system conflict resolution algorithm to determine how the relationship between a given user and a given application should be resolved. In alternative embodiments the settings are initially controlled such that no conflict is possible and rather than using a conflict resolution algorithm a multiple setting resolution algorithm is used e.g. one administrative role is given precedence. The result of the resolution algorithm is installation control data which defines the resulting installation configuration for a given user in relation to one or more given applications. The installation control data may be stored in the catalogue data store for later reference or generated as required transmitted and then discarded.

A conflict resolution algorithm used in some embodiments identifies a more restrictive installation control setting among those configured by the relevant administrative control roles to determine the corresponding installation control data. In order to utilize this arrangement the various options for installation control settings may be ordered for example in terms of their restrictiveness which is then stored as a predetermined ordering rule used in the algorithm. To use the example installation control settings given above the order of increasing restrictiveness may be DEFAULT ALLOW FORCE CONTINUE SUSPEND DENY.

The catalogue data store database entries shown in for Application A will now be used as examples of the operation of this conflict resolution algorithm. With regard to User A both administrative control roles have configured installation control settings a first set of installation control settings Installation Control Settings A a second set of installation control settings Installation Control Settings B to indicate that User A should be allowed to install Application A and hence there is no conflict and the resulting installation control data indicates that User A should be allowed to install Application A.

For User B one administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate that User B should be allowed to install Application A and the other administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate that User B should be forced to install Application A. Under this conflict the FORCE setting is more restrictive than the ALLOW setting and hence the resulting installation control data indicates that User B should be forced to install Application A.

For User C one administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate that User C should be allowed to continue to use Application A but only if already installed and the other administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate that User C should have access to Application A suspended if already installed. Under this conflict the SUSPEND setting is more restrictive than the CONTINUE setting and hence the resulting installation control data indicates that access to Application A should be suspended for User C.

For User D one administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate that User D should be forced to install Application A and the other administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate that User C should be denied access to Application A. Under this conflict the DENY setting is more restrictive than the FORCE setting and hence the resulting installation control data indicates that User D should be denied access to Application A.

For User E one administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate that User E should be allowed to install Application A and the other administrative control role has configured their installation control setting to indicate no preference in the relationship between User E and Application A. Under this conflict the ALLOW setting is more restrictive than the DEFAULT setting and hence the resulting installation control data indicates that User D should be allowed access to Application A.

With respect to Application B shows a case where both administrative control roles have not yet configured installation control settings for the user in relation to the application. Under these circumstances the conflict resolution algorithm may yield installation control data which does not correspond to one of the individual installation control settings but rather may be treated as an exception. The resulting installation control data in this special case may indicate that access to Application B should be denied as no level of access has been explicitly indicated by either administrative control role.

The process is started at step by passing the relevant UserID and AppID parameters. The algorithm continues by identifying the relevant installation control settings associated with the first and second administrative control roles at steps and respectively. The installation control settings are identified from the sets of installation control settings associated with each administrative control role e.g. as shown in on the basis of the UserID and AppID parameters.

At step the algorithm identifies a most restrictive installation control setting amongst the settings for a user. This could be determined by accessing each of the applicable installation control settings as described previously and selecting the most restrictive. At step a check is carried out to establish whether the most restrictive installation control setting determined at step is a default setting. If the check is negative the determined most restrictive installation control setting is used to generate the installation control data at step and the algorithm completes at step . However if the check performed at step is positive the algorithm uses DENY as the setting to generate the installation control data at step instead of the setting determined at step and the algorithm completes at step .

In order to determine the appropriate installation control settings to reference for the given user and application the conflict resolution algorithm may search the catalogue data store for database entries that correspond to that user and application. According to alternative embodiments the algorithm may reference further data stored in the catalogue data store to determine which administrative control roles are associated with a given user for example by virtue of being that user s service provider or associated enterprise and identify appropriate installation control settings by referencing database entries associated with the listed administrative control roles.

The conflict resolution algorithm described in can be expanded to include installation control settings set by more than two administrative control roles by including additional identifying steps similar to step for third fourth or fifth etc. administrative control roles.

As well as configuring installation control settings individually for a user an administrative control role may also define a user as being part of a group of users to which installation control settings can be configured as a whole. The groups may be defined on the basis of a common grouping characteristic. For example an enterprise may wish to configure installation control settings based on each user s role within the enterprise e.g. every employee in the sales team or everyone employed in the accounts department .

An administrative control role may also wish to configure an installation control setting that corresponds to all users associated with that administrative control role. For example an enterprise may wish to configure an installation control setting for a given application that applies to all of its employees or a network operator may wish to configure an installation control setting for a given application that applies to all of its subscribers. In this way is possible to define a base installation control setting that applies to all users.

Under these circumstances an administrative control role may configure several different installation control settings which all influence the installation controls for a given user in relation to a given application. For example a user may have an individual entry a relevant group entry and an all users entry set by a single administrative control role and all relating to the same application. Hence a decision must be made as to which installation control setting to use for determining the installation control data. In embodiments of the installation control system the conflict resolution algorithm is expanded to select among a plurality of installation control settings configured by an administrative control role when those settings relate to the same user and the same application. An exemplary method for doing so involves selecting an installation control setting on the basis of a precedence order. For example an entry for an individual may take precedence over the relevant group entry which in turn may take precedence over the all users entry set. Alternatively or additionally a most restrictive installation control setting from the several different installation control settings may be selected.

With regard to User A the administrative control role has defined an individual installation control setting to indicate that User A should be allowed to install Application A but has also configured an installation control setting to indicate that users in Group A should be forced to install Application A. Under this conflict the FORCE setting is more restrictive than the ALLOW setting and the DEFAULT setting and hence the relevant installation control setting from this administrative control role to be used when determining the installation control data is FORCE.

With regard to User B the administrative control role has defined an individual installation control setting to indicate that User B should be denied access to Application A but has also configured an installation control setting to indicate that users in Group B should be allowed to install Application A. Under this conflict the DENY setting is more restrictive than the ALLOW setting and the DEFAULT setting and hence the relevant installation control setting from this administrative control role to be used when determining the installation control data is DENY.

The process is started at step by passing the relevant UserID AppID and AdminID parameters. The process continues by identifying among the entries in the catalogue data store associated with the relevant administrative control role an installation control setting associated with the given application and the individual user at step . At step the process determines whether the user is a member of any groups associated with the given administrative control role. If one or more groups are identified for which the user is a member the process goes on to identify any installation control setting associated with the given application and those groups at step . If no groups are detected for which the user is a member the process continues at step by identifying any installation control setting configured by the administrative control role that applies to all users associated with that administrative control role.

Once all relevant installation control settings have been identified the selection of the appropriate setting to use occurs at step by determining the most restrictive amongst the identified installation control settings. The determined setting is then returned in step and the process terminates at step .

According to some embodiments a fallback installation control setting may be configured by an administrative control role for all or a set of users to be used if a more specific installation control setting has not been configured e.g. those for the individual user or a group of which they are a member . In these embodiments the fallback installation control setting may be used only if all other installation control settings relating to the given user and application are in the default setting.

The process continues at step by determining the most restrictive amongst the identified installation control settings. The determined setting is checked at step to identify whether the determined setting is a default setting and if not the process returns the determined installation control setting at step and the process terminates at step . However if the determined setting is a default setting the process identifies and returns the fallback installation control setting for the user and the given application in step and the process terminates at step .

The installation control data may comprise the selected or determined installation control setting s in substantially identical form to the settings stored in the catalogue data store and or may include data derived from the selected or determined setting s . The installation control data is in some embodiments transmitted by the catalogue server during interactions between a user terminal and the catalogue server . It may thus be included in an installation control message transmitted to the user terminal . Alternatively or in addition it may be transmitted by the catalogue server during interactions between an application repository and the catalogue server . It may thus be included in an installation control message transmitted to the application repository to enable the application repository to determine a response to a request for an application from a user terminal.

The installation control data may be used in the process of viewing a selection of applications available to download and install on the user terminal and indeed may be used in the process of downloading applications to install on the user terminal. The installation control data may be used to determine download conditions for example to prevent download of an application to which a user is not entitled thus preventing its installation and performing installation control in that manner. Alternatively or in addition the installation control data may be used to determine installation conditions which may be sent in conjunction with a downloaded application. These installation conditions may for example enforce installation control settings on the user terminal for example a forced upgrade of an installed application. Applications may be installed by downloading and executing application installation files which are typically stored as packages.

According to some embodiments the application installation packages are stored in the application repository. The application repository may be comprised within the same physical storage hardware as the catalogue data store or alternatively it may be held elsewhere. According to some embodiments application installation packages may be stored on hardware external to the installation control system for example on an enterprise server which allows the installation packages to be held under the control of that enterprise and not under the control of the installation control system operator.

As described in the background section conventional application distribution systems restrict the browsing of available applications to user terminals. By contrast the architecture of the catalogue server is arranged in such a way that it provides a channel for exposing applications that been developed by e.g. an independent software vendor to an administrative control entity of an enterprise network. As a result the IT and policy administrators of the enterprise can review these available applications and configure additional overriding installation control settings for these available applications and control settings for their own enterprise applications taking account of these third party applications.

Such third party application providers may indicate which of their applications are suitable for a given enterprise and application suitability information may be maintained in a table maintained by the data store as illustrated by table in where Provider A considers applications A B and C to be suitable for Enterprise A and applications A D and E to be suitable for Enterprise B.

Alternatively or additionally third party application providers may indicate which of their applications are unsuitable for a given enterprise and thereby control which applications are exposed to which enterprises. For example per the above example instead of indicating that Applications A B and C are suitable for Enterprise A Provider A could instead indicate that Applications D and E are unsuitable for this enterprise thereby ensuring that Applications D and E are not exposed to Enterprise A. Application unsuitability information may be maintained in a table maintained by the data store .

Notwithstanding the above third party application providers may alternatively or additionally be restricted as regards which the enterprises to which they are able to expose their applications. This could be enforced via associations between application providers and enterprises. Without limitation such association could be formed on the basis of a prior transaction e.g. a third party application provider has previously supplied applications to an enterprise or it could be formed on the basis of a mutual agreement. Mutual agreements could be established for a predefined period of time such as a week or for a predefined number or type of applications and may need to be re established upon expiry. Mutual agreements concerning an enterprise may be authorized by its corresponding administrative control function or they may be authorized by a trusted entity such as the administrative control function corresponding to the installation control system on its behalf. In use prior to publishing applications from a third party application provider the installation control system would determine those enterprises with which the application provider has an association and indeed the nature of the association and consequentially limit publication accordingly. It will be understood that associations between third party application providers and enterprises are likely to change over a period of time as a consequence the channel for exposing applications to a given enterprise may be updated periodically or prior to every use. Association information may be maintained in a table maintained by the data store .

Third party application providers may also identify applications for different uses by users of enterprise networks via settings such as demo or trial . For example turning to table indicates that Application A is available in Demo mode for various groups of users within different enterprises and indicates that Application B is Allowed for a group of users in a particular enterprise only. Once this information is available from the application provider the enterprise administrative control entity is able to configure installation control setting B with the knowledge of the type of applications. For example in one arrangement the control setting specified by the enterprise for Application A may restrict deployment a specific and specified group such as trial group within the enterprise as illustrated in table of . In arrangements in which the enterprise control settings override those of other entities this means that Application A will be allowed to be downloaded by only to this trial group within enterprise A rather than as is specified by the control setting and user identification information specified by the application developer everyone in enterprise A.

Thus the catalogue system additionally enables application providers to efficiently expose their applications to enterprise networks which can evaluate and take account of the applications and specify appropriate installation control settings to enable e.g. trials of applications within a controlled environment.

The installation control data for the identified user may be pre computed prior to the start of the message flow or it may be computed on demand in response to receiving the application list request message in both of these cases query response message comprises the necessary installation control data. According to alternative embodiments the installation control data may be computed on the user terminal in which case query response message contains the necessary installation control settings required to compute the installation control data.

On the basis of the installation control data a list of applications that the user terminal is entitled to download and install may be generated. For example the application list may contain references to all applications for which the corresponding application control data for the given user is set to ALLOW. According to some embodiments the application list may also be pre computed prior to the start of the message flow and stored in catalogue data store in which case query response message may contain the application list for the identified user terminal as part of the installation control data.

Having obtained the application list application list message is transmitted to user terminal . The application list message may for example include the AppID for each listed application along with some metadata for each application such as title and a brief description. In the case that the list contains a large number of applications application list message may contain information for only a subset of the listed applications wherein information for further listed applications may be obtained by sending a modified application list request message from user terminal .

On the basis of the received application list message user terminal may present a list of the applications to the user from which the user can browse and select a desired application for which they which to view complete metadata. Selection of a desired application by the user results in a metadata request message containing the AppID of the selected application being sent to catalogue server . In response to receipt of metadata request message the catalogue server sends metadata query comprising the received AppID to catalogue data store which responds with requested metadata . Catalogue server sends the requested metadata to user terminal as part of metadata message which user terminal then presents to the user in order to aid the user in deciding whether or not to download and install the application.

If the user indicates that they wish to install the application for example by pressing a button on user terminal application request message is sent to catalogue server . Application request message contains the AppID of the desired application which catalogue server may optionally use to verify for a second time that the user should be allowed to install the corresponding application which is done on the basis of the installation control settings for the user in relation to the application as described above. Catalogue server then fetches the application installation package from application repository by sending get application message . Application repository responds with the requested application installation package which is passed by catalogue server to user terminal in application message . According to alternative embodiments the application repository may send the application installation package directly to user terminal in order to avoid the application installation package passing through the catalogue server for reasons described above .

According to some embodiments selection of an application from the application list may represent an intention to install that application in which case the step of requesting complete metadata for an application may be skipped and messages to are removed from the message flow.

In order to facilitate the installation of those applications to which the installation control data indicates that the user should be forced to install the application the catalogue server may also transmit a list of mandatory applications. The user terminal may then notify the user of the mandatory applications which should be installed and the user may initiate the installation of the mandatory applications according to the message flows described above. However in order to ensure the installation of the mandatory applications it may be necessary to also install client side software on the user terminal . When the user terminal connects to the catalogue server for example when downloading and viewing the application list the mandatory application list may be downloaded at the same time and reviewed by the client side software. If the client side software identifies any uninstalled mandatory applications the client side software may handle the download and installation of those applications according to the message flows described above autonomously perhaps without requiring or allowing interaction with the user.

Over time the administrators representing different administrative control roles may update some of their set of installation control settings stored in the catalogue data store for example to reflect newly released applications or new policies regarding which applications should be installed on user devices.

An administrator or may modify one of their set of installation control settings by sending an installation control modification message from their administrator terminal to the catalogue server containing the AppID UserID and updated installation control setting. Having verified the identity of the administrator or the catalogue server may implement the update by modifying the corresponding entry in the catalogue data store or adding a new entry as appropriate. The updating of an installation control setting by an administrator or of a particular administrative control role may also cause the catalogue server to recalculate the associated installation control data in response to the update.

According to alternative embodiments an administrator or may be able to modify the catalogue data store directly in which case the catalogue server may monitor the catalogue data store for updates in order to detect when installation control data should be recalculated.

Having recalculated installation control data on the basis of the updated installation control setting the catalogue server may notify any users corresponding to the new installation control data of the change to the installation control data by sending an installation control update message or the user terminal. This message could be sent according to the methods discussed previously or alternatively may utilize a push notification channel. A push notification channel is an alternative communication channel which is kept open between a server and a client which the server may use to inform the client that new data is ready to be downloaded via the main communication channel. The catalogue server may send push notifications directly to the user terminal or may use a push proxy server to maintain the open push notification channel with the user terminal and transmit push notification messages via the push proxy server. In this case a push notification message may prompt the user terminal to fetch the installation control update message via the standard communication channel.

The installation control update message may be received an interpreted by the client side software installed on the user terminal which can carry out the necessary actions in order to enforce the new installation control data. For example if the installation control update message includes installation control data relating to an installed application and the installation control data indicates that access to the installed application should be suspended or denied for that user then the client side software may initiate the suspension or uninstall that application. Further if the installation control update message includes installation control data for an application that is not installed and the installation control data indicates that application should be force installed on that user terminal then the client side software may initiate the installation of that application according to the methods described above.

In order to prevent the transmission of unnecessary installation control update messages to a user terminal the installation control system may maintain lists of installed applications for each user terminal which may also be stored in the catalogue data store . By referencing such a list of installed applications the catalogue server may filter the installation control update messages sent to each user terminal on the basis of which applications are known to be installed on that user terminal . For example if the installation control data for a given user and application is updated to indicate that access to the application should now be suspended or denied for that user then an installation control update message only need be sent to the user if that application is known to be installed on a corresponding user terminal. Further if the installation control data for a given user and application is updated to indicate that installation of the application should now be forced for that user then an installation control update message only need be sent to the user if that application is known to not be installed on a corresponding user terminal.

According to some embodiments in order to ensure that each list of installed applications properly reflects the applications installed on a given user terminal the client side software installed on the user terminal may be configured to send an application installed message containing the relevant AppID parameter to the catalogue server each time a new application is installed on the user terminal and an application uninstalled message containing the relevant AppID parameter to the catalogue server each time an application is uninstalled. The catalogue server may then respond to the receipt of these messages by editing the list of installed applications corresponding to that user terminal in the catalogue data store .

It is possible that an administrative control role may update an installation control setting while the user device associated with the corresponding user is unavailable. Under these circumstances some embodiments of the installation control system provide a registration process by which a user terminal may be informed of any updates to relevant installation control data that occurred while the device was unavailable. Such a registration process may simultaneously register the user terminal to receive subsequent installation control update messages since the catalogue server has been informed that the user terminal is once again available. The registering of the user terminal to receive subsequent installation control update messages may include the establishment of the push notification channel if used .

Sometime later catalogue server receives an installation control modification message from administrator terminal which contains the relevant AppID UserID and installation control setting parameters for the updated installation control setting. Administrator terminal may first be required to complete an authentication procedure not shown such as providing a valid username and password combination before installation control modification message is accepted. On the basis of the received installation control modification message catalogue server updates the relevant entry in catalogue data store via database update message and also recalculates any relevant installation control data on the basis of the updated installation control setting. On the basis of the recalculated installation control data catalogue server sends query message to catalogue data store in order to identify those users affected by the recalculated installation control data and a list of installed applications for each identified user. The requested data is returned from the catalogue data store and used by catalogue server to generate installation control update message . Installation control update message contains the recalculated installation control data for the relevant application and may be sent to a number of user terminals affected by the recalculated installation control data on the basis of whether the given application is installed on each of those user terminals. Installation control update message is sent to user terminal as a result of that analysis.

In response to receiving the installation control update message the client side software installed on user terminal executes the necessary actions in order to enforce the new installation control data by installing suspending or uninstalling the relevant application as necessary according to the methods described previously . Once the necessary action had been carried out user terminal informs catalogue server of the installation uninstallation by sending application installed uninstalled message which includes the AppID of the relevant application. In response to receiving message catalogue server updates the corresponding list of installed applications for user terminal stored in catalogue data store accordingly by sending database update message .

As well as maintaining installation control settings for each application in the catalogue data store some embodiments of the installation control system also maintain individual installation control settings for each version of the available applications. This arrangement gives an administrative control role a finer level of granularity when deciding which applications a given user can install and configuring the corresponding installation control settings. According to these some embodiments installation control data is therefore also calculated on a per version basis.

The database entries define that User A should be allowed to use the installed Version 1 of Application A but that User A should be prevented from installing Version 2 of Application A. The result of this is that the installation control settings indicate that User A should be prevented from upgrading to Version 2 of the application. This is particularly useful in an enterprise environment where the enterprise s administrative control role may wish to prevent its users from upgrading to a new version of an application while they carry out compatibility or security tests on the new application version. A similar effect can be achieved by configuring Version 1 to the CONTINUE or FORCE settings and or Version 2 to the SUSPEND setting.

The database entries define that User B should not be allowed to use the installed Version 1 of Application A and that User B should be allowed to install Version 2 of Application A. The result of this is that the installation control settings indicate that User B should be forced to upgrade to Version 2 of the application in order to continue using it. This is particularly useful where an error may have been found in Version 1 of the application that has been fixed in Version 2 and the administrative control role wishes to prevent the user from experiencing the error. A similar effect can be achieved by configuring Version 1 to the DENY setting and or Version 2 to the CONTINUE or FORCE settings.

The database entries define that User C should be allowed to use the installed Version 1 of Application A but that User C should be forced to install Version 2 of Application A. The result of this is that the installation control settings indicate that User C should be forced to upgrade to Version 2 of the application thereby overriding the CONTINUE setting corresponding to version 1. A similar effect is achieved when Version 1 is configured to the CONTINUE setting.

The database entries define that User D should be allowed to continue to use the installed Version 1 of Application A and that User D should be allowed to install Version 2 of Application A. The result of this is that the installation control settings indicate that User B may continue to use Version 1 but may also upgrade to Version 2 of the application if desired. This is beneficial where an administrative control role wishes to allow only those users who have already installed Version 1 to continue using it while forcing new users who wish to install the application to download Version 2.

The database entries define that User E should be allowed to use the installed Version 1 of Application A and that User E should also be allowed to install Version 2 of Application A. The result of this is that the installation control settings indicate that User E should be free to decide whether to continue to use Version 1 or upgrade to Version 2 of the application.

The database entries define that User F should be denied from using the installed Version 1 of Application A and that User F should also be denied from installing Version 2 of Application A. The result of this is that the installation control settings indicate that User E should be forced to uninstall the application.

Finally database entries and define that User G should be forced to use the installed Version 1 of Application A and that User G should also be forced to install Version 2 of Application A. This is a special case that appears to show conflicting installation control settings. However embodiments of the installation control system cater for this situation by forcing the user terminal to install the most recent version of the application. Hence the result of this combination is that the installation control settings indicate that User G should be forced to upgrade to Version 2 of the application.

According to some embodiments the catalogue data store may also maintain entries for multiple different installation packages for a given application or version each suitable for different terminal hardware configurations or languages etc. Under these embodiments the installation control system may only offer applications to a user terminal for which an appropriate package exists.

The functionality of the modules of may be implemented in various ways consistent with the teachings herein. In some aspects the functionality of these modules may be implemented as one or more electrical components. In some aspects the functionality of these blocks may be implemented as a processing system including one or more processor components. In some aspects the functionality of these modules may be implemented using for example at least a portion of one or more integrated circuits e.g. an ASIC . As discussed herein an integrated circuit may include a processor software other related components or some combination thereof. The functionality of these modules also may be implemented in some other manner as taught herein.

For example the modules may be implemented at least in part as program instructions for execution by a processor as logic circuits as an application specific integrated circuit as firmware etc. For example the embodiments can be implemented as one or more software or firmware applications computer implemented methods program products stored on a computer useable medium for execution on one or more processors e.g. CPU microcontroller or other computing devices in a wireless station.

More particularly the catalogue server catalogue data store and user terminal of the above some embodiments may be configured to operate according to the above some embodiments by executing computer programs held in computer readable media. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Thus in some aspects computer readable medium may comprise non transitory computer readable medium e.g. tangible media . In addition in some aspects computer readable medium may comprise transitory computer readable medium e.g. a signal . Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The above some embodiments are to be understood as illustrative examples of the invention. Further some embodiments of the invention are envisaged. For example the functions carried out by the catalogue server or the catalogue data store may be equally performed by multiple distributed hardware resources instead of the unitary hardware described above. It is to be understood that any feature described in relation to any one embodiment may be used alone or in combination with other features described and may also be used in combination with one or more features of any other of the some embodiments or any combination of any other of the some embodiments. Furthermore equivalents and modifications not described above may also be employed without departing from the scope of the invention which is defined in the accompanying claims.

