---

title: Electronic device and communication method
abstract: A communication method of an application processor includes generating a plurality of files; generating a file set channel by transmitting a first pattern of input/output (I/O) requests to a storage device, the I/O requests being I/O requests corresponding to files from among the plurality of files; and transmitting first bit data to the storage device via the file set channel, the first bit data being transmitted using file set signaling, the file set signaling including a second pattern of I/O requests corresponding to first files from among the plurality of files such that each file in the plurality of files represents a bit of the first bit data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582217&OS=09582217&RS=09582217
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09582217
owner_city: Gyeonggi-Do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150223
---
This U.S. non provisional patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0021414 filed Feb. 24 2014 the subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts relate to an electronic device and more particularly relate to a non standard communication method of an electronic device.

Semiconductor memory devices may be classified into volatile semiconductor memory devices and nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices. The nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices may retain data stored therein even at power off on the other hand data stored in the nonvolatile semiconductor memory device may be permanent or reprogrammable depending upon the fabrication technology used. The nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices may be used for user data storage and program and microcode storage in a wide variety of applications in the computer avionics telecommunications and consumer electronics industries.

According to one or more example embodiments a communication method of an application processor includes generating a plurality of files generating a file set channel by transmitting a first pattern of input output I O requests to a storage device the I O requests being I O requests corresponding to files from among the plurality of files and transmitting first bit data to the storage device via the file set channel the first bit data being transmitted using file set signaling the file set signaling including a second pattern of I O requests corresponding to first files from among the plurality of files such that each file in the plurality of files represents a bit of the first bit data.

According to example embodiments a communication method of a storage device includes receiving from a host first input output I O requests corresponding to a plurality of files recognizing a non standard communication based on the first I O requests received receiving second I O requests on the plurality of files from the host after recognizing the non standard communication and interpreting the second I O requests as bit data transmitted from the host.

According to example embodiments a communication method of a host including an application processor includes generating at the application processor a plurality of files generating at the application processor a first pattern of input output I O requests such that the first pattern of I O requests are recognizable by a storage device as a request to establish a file set channel between the host and the storage device the first pattern of I O requests being I O requests corresponding to the plurality of files establishing a file set channel between the host and the storage device by transmitting the first pattern of I O requests to the storage device generating at the application processor a second pattern of I O requests such that each file in the plurality of files represents a bit of bit data the second pattern of I O requests being I O requests corresponding to first files from among the plurality of files and transmitting the bit data to the storage device via the file set channel by transmitting the second pattern to the storage device.

Detailed example embodiments of the inventive concepts are disclosed herein. However specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing example embodiments of the inventive concepts. Example embodiments of the inventive concepts may however be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein. Accordingly while example embodiments of the inventive concepts are capable of various modifications and alternative forms embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit example embodiments of the inventive concepts to the particular forms disclosed but to the contrary example embodiments of the inventive concepts are to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of example embodiments of the inventive concepts. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the description of the figures.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of example embodiments of the inventive concepts. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it may be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of example embodiments of the inventive concepts. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

Example embodiments of the inventive concepts are described herein with reference to schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the inventive concepts. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus example embodiments of the inventive concepts should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing.

An electronic device and a communication method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may effectuate non standard communication using file set signaling regardless of hardware restriction and software restriction. Here the hardware restriction may mean what may not be defined by the standard interface communication protocol of a storage device and the software restriction may mean the situation where the standard protocol is not used due to a lack of the authority of a running application even through the standard protocol exists. Now will be described the file set signaling.

The storage device stores data to be used in the host . The storage device incorporates a non standard communication determiner that determines non standard communication based on input output requests e.g. write read requests for a plurality of files hereinafter referred to as a file set from the host . The non standard communication determiner may be implemented any or all of hardware software and firmware forms. The non standard communication determiner recognizes a start of non standard communication and converts the input output requests for the file set input after the start of the non standard communication. The non standard communication determiner converts bit data to be sent to the host after the start of the non standard communication into pass fail of an input output request for a file set.

The host encompasses an application for executing non standard communication with the storage device . For example the application may be a magician program which may be for example a program for managing monitoring improving and or optimizing the storage device . The application produces a plurality of files to generate form a file set channel for non standard communication and provides the storage device with a specific pattern of input output requests for the plurality of files that is a file set. The file set channel is formed if the non standard communication determiner recognizes a specific pattern of input output requests.

In accordance with the description above the electronic device effectuates non standard communication using the file set signaling. Here the file set signaling may mean that each signal for input output requests for each of files constituting a file set represent at least one bit that is transmitted from the host to the storage device or vice versa. That is the host sends bit data to the storage device via the file set channel and the storage device transmits bit data to the host via the file set channel.

The file system may include for example any or all of an application programming interface API a file system manager and a device interface. Upon non standard communication the file system generates a plurality of files for forming a file set channel or input output requests for the plurality of files according to a request of the application .

The device driver provides the API for the file system and converts an access request e.g. an input output request on hardware a command which hardware e.g. a storage device can identify. The access request may be issued by the file system .

According to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts the file system and the device driver are included in an Operating System OS and the application is installed on the OS.

The non standard communication according to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts is effectuated as follows. First file io api in which the application is implemented may issue a disk input output request disk io to the storage device . Examples of the file io api include an api of CreateFile ReadFile WriteFile in a Windows operating system and api of open read write in a Linux operating system.

Next a communication channel is configured between the application and the storage device by generating a plurality of files or a file set a file input output request file io on a part of the file set that the application issues is generated the file input output request file io is converted into a disk input output request disk io by the OS and the file system and the disk input output request disk io is sent to the storage device . The storage device detects the disk input output request disk io thus transmitted and determines a meaning of signals sent according non standard communication. An example of non standard communication involves using input output read or write requests to transfer bits of data from the host to the storage device or vice versa.

Then addresses of files may not be changed in a general situation after the file set is produced. A specific task such as defragmentation causes a logical block addressing LBA change but it is not carried out in the situation where a file handle or descriptor is opened by the application . That an address is not changed after a file set is generated may mean that an address is not changed during file set signaling between the application and the storage device and may not mean that a logical block address is never changed.

Files to be used for the file set signaling may be irrelevant to whether the files have positions not related to each other may not be stored but generated if necessary and may be deleted after the non standard communication. Files constituting a file set according to the file system may not exist in a contiguous area. The file system produces files constituting the file set by a cluster unit to allocate the files to the number of sectors where continuity is secured.

The file set channel may be formed with intent to obtain information on the same LBA between the application and the storage device . The application need not know a logical block address directly even though the application can know a file name via the file system . The storage device can know a logical block address that a disk input output request disk io issues and obtain a file name via analysis of a file system.

A manner of making a file set channel is a manner where a file input output request file io with a specific pattern is issued from the application with respect to N files constituting a communication channel and such a pattern is detected by a predetermined or alternatively desired storage device .

At least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may support the non standard communication using the file set signaling between the application and the storage device .

In the application may effectuate the non standard communication via the file system . However one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are not limited thereto. For example at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may be changed or modified such that the non standard communication is additionally effectuated without passing through the file system .

The second non standard communication is performed by transmitting a command to a storage device via a device driver According to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts the device driver may depend on an Operating System OS e.g. Windows Linux MAC Apple OS Android and so on .

The application is configured to effectuate one of the first non standard communication and the second non standard communication. For example the second non standard communication is set to a default and the first non standard communication is performed when the second non standard communication is not effectuated. In contrast the first non standard communication is set to a default and the second non standard communication is performed when the first non standard communication is not effectuated.

An electronic device according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may support the first non standard communication using the file system and the second non standard communication not using the file system .

After the file set channel is formed the host and the storage device communicate with each other via first and second file set signaling. For example the host sends bit data to the storage device via the first file set signaling S . Here the first file set signaling may consist of input output requests e.g. read write requests for the plurality of files. At the first file set signaling a read request or an update or write request on a file is viewed as a bit. Also the storage device parses bit data based on the first file set signaling from the host . That is input output requests on the plurality of files transmitted from the host may be parsed as bit data transferred from the host .

The storage device transmits bit data to the host via the second file set signaling S . Here the second file set signaling may be formed of success fail information corresponding to input output requests for the plurality of files. However one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are not limited thereto. For example the second file set signaling may be variously formed of file related information. The host parses bit data based on the second file set signaling from the storage device . For example the storage device may encode bit data e.g. 01101100 as a series of read success and or read failure messages and then send the read success and or read failure messages to the host which may decode the series of read success and or read failure messages to determine the bit data sent from the storage device .

Referring to a storage device groups and stores logical block addresses 0xXX 0xYY 0xAB . . . 0xQQ of N files F1 to FN and disk input output requests disk io corresponding to the logical block addresses. For example the storage device may group and store the number of read requests generated respectively for logical block addresses 0xXX 0xYY 0xAB . . . 0xQQ of N files F1 to FN.

For example during a first sequence Seq1 the storage device stores LBA1 1 LBA2 1 . . . LBAN 1 . During a second sequence Seq2 the storage device stores LBA1 1 2 LBA2 1 2 . . . LBAN 1 2 . During a third sequence Seq3 the storage device stores LBA1 1 2 3 LBA2 1 2 3 . . . LBAN 1 2 3 .

In non standard communication determiner refer to of the storage device a file set channel is formed when a file set that has been successfully recognized exists up to the third sequence Seq3.

Also an application refer to checks whether a file set channel is formed successfully after the sequences Seq1 to Seq3. Here whether a file set channel is formed successfully may be checked according to transmitting and receiving of file set signaling which will be described later.

At least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may include forming and or generating a file set channel by recognizing a specific pattern of read requests for a file set.

Referring to in case of data transmission an application generates N 2 files and the application and the storage device may recognize addresses of the N 2 files. Here locations of the files thus generated need not be continuing. Locations on the files thus generated may not be restricted.

N files F1 to FN are used as a bit line for transmitting bit data and the remaining two files Ready and Tx are used to transmit data set to the bit line. The application issues a disk input output request disk io via a read request read on each file.

According to one or more example embodiments an input output request disk io is made by the host with respect to the file Ready in order to inform the storage device that the host is ready to transmit a signal via non standard communication. For example according to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts when the storage device transmits a particular input output command to the storage device e.g. a read request for a particular file e.g. the Ready file the host is signaling to the storage device that the host is ready to begin non standard communication and the storage device interprets the signaling as an indication that the host is ready to begin non standard communication.

A disk input output request disk io that is a read request on files for a bit set of the files F1 to FN is issued. At this time a storage device stores files where the disk input output request disk io is issued. Signal transmission is reported by issuing a disk input output request disk io for the file Tx. The storage device views each file associated with the disk input output request disk io as a bit. That is the files are viewed as binary data b101 . . . 1 b000 . . . 0 and b111 . . . 1 . At this time N bit or N 2 bit data is transferred by issuing a disk input output request disk io for a file set once. For example according to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts when the storage device transmits a particular input output command to the storage device e.g. a read request for a particular file e.g. files F1 FN file the host is signaling to the host is sending bits of data to the storage device as input output signals and the storage device interprets the signaling as bits of data being sent via non standard communication. For example sending a consecutive series of commands including a read request for file F1 no read request for file F2 a read request for file F3 and no read request for file F4 may be interpreted as bit data b when the host and storage device are configured to interpret read requests as corresponding to the bit and the absence of read requests as corresponding to the bit . Further according to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts when the storage device transmits a particular input output command to the storage device e.g. a read request for a particular file e.g. the Tx file the host is signaling to the storage device that the host is about to send is currently sending or alternatively has completed sending bits of data via non standard communication and the storage device interprets the signaling as an indication that the host is about to send is currently sending or alternatively has completed sending bits of data via non standard communication.

For example as illustrated in a read request for files Ready F1 to FN and Tx is issued to transmit first bit data b . . . . For example a read request read on files Ready and Tx is issued by transmit second bit data b . . . . For example a read request read for files Ready F1 to FN and Tx is issued by transmit second bit data b . . . . As is discussed above according to one or more example embodiments the host and storage device may be configured such that with respect to a non standard communication a read request corresponds to the bit and the absence of a read request corresponds to the bit .

Meanwhile a method of setting a bit or shown in is illustrated as an example. According to one or more example embodiments instead of using the bits and to refer to data that is not read requested and data that is read requested respectively a bit may be assigned to a file that is read requested and a bit may be assigned to a file that is not read requested.

A file set signaling based transmission method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may transmit data by expressing whether a read request on a file set exists with a bit.

A start of reception of file set signaling is informed by transmitting a signal directing a success of a read request from the storage device to an application . For example the storage device may send to the host a disk input output request disk io to a logical block address corresponding to a file Ready.

The application receives from a storage device signals designating whether a read request on files F1 to FN is successful. For example sending a consecutive series of success failure information including a read success indication for file F1 no indication or a read failure indication for file F2 a read success indication for file F3 and no indication or a read failure indication for file F4 may be interpreted as bit data b when the host and storage device are configured to interpret read success indications as corresponding to the bit and no indication or a read failure indication as corresponding to the bit . For example the storage device sends a bit to the application via non standard communications by indicating that a read request succeeded for a particular file. In contrast the storage device sends a bit to the application via non standard communications by indicating that a read request failed for the particular file. The application determines success fail of the disk input output request disk io using a return value of a file io api of OS.

According to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts the application as illustrated in constructs bit data b . . . and b . . . by combining indexes of files of which a file input output request file io succeeds. Afterwards as the application receives a signal designating success of a disk input output request disk io for a file Rx an operation of effectuating receiving of file set signaling is completed.

A file set signaling based reception method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may receive data by expressing whether a read request on a file set succeeds with a bit.

Meanwhile non standard communication using a read request has been described with reference to . One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are applicable to non standard communication using a write request.

Returning to non standard communication using a write request effectuates transmission of file set signaling by forming a file set channel through a first update operation after storing of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt and carrying out a second update operation.

The transmission of file set signaling will now be described below. When an application of a host refer to wants to effectuate non standard communication with a storage device the application requests generation of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt to a file system refer to . The file system generates the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt based on a request for the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt of the application and requests generation of corresponding write requests to a device driver refer to . Generation of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt may include allocation of logical addresses of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt. The device driver issues and transmits write requests which the storage device can recognize based on a request of the file system . Thus the storage device which receives a write request for each of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt from the device driver may recognize logical addresses of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt.

Afterwards a first update operation is carried out to generate a file set channel. During the first update operation the application issues an update request for each of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt with a specific pattern. The storage device effectuates non standard communication via the file set channel by recognizing the first update request. Here the file set channel may include the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt.

Next a second update operation is performed for transmission of file set signaling. For example a bit is assigned to a file to be updated and a bit is set to a file not to be updated.

For example sending a consecutive series of update requests including an update request for file 1.txt no update request for file 2.txt and an update request for file 3.txt may be interpreted as bit data b as illustrated in when the host and storage device are configured to interpret update requests for a particular file as corresponding to the bit and no update requests for a particular file as corresponding to the bit . The host may communicate bit data b and b in a similar manner as is also shown in .

In an extension of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt may be txt . However one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are not limited thereto.

At least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may effectuate a transfer of file set signaling using a bit indicating whether an update operation on a file set is required.

In there is described an example in which 1 bit data is transferred using each of files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt. However one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are not limited thereto. For example n bit data n being an integer of 2 or more may be transmitted through each of the files 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt. For example sending a consecutive series of update requests including an update request for sector of file 1.txt no update request for file 2.txt and an update request for sector of file 3.txt may be interpreted as bit data b as illustrated in when the host and storage device are configured to interpret update requests for a particular file as corresponding to the bit and no update requests for a particular file as corresponding to the bit . The host may communicate bit data b and b in a similar manner as is also shown in .

As illustrated in a cluster is formed of four sectors S to S. Two bits of each of the sectors S to S are set to different values at an update operation. For example during an update operation a value of the first sector S is set to 11 a value of the second sector S to 01 a value of the third sector S to 10 and a value of the fourth sector S to 00 . For example sending a consecutive series of update requests including an update request for sector S of file 1.txt an update request for sector of file 2.txt and an update request for sector of file 3.txt may be interpreted as bit data b as illustrated in when the host and storage device are configured to interpret update requests for a particular file as corresponding to specific pairs of bits in the manner described above. The host may communicate bit data b and in a similar manner as is also shown in .

A non standard communication method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may transmit 2 bit data through each of the les 1.txt 2.txt and 3.txt.

As described above are only embodiments on non standard communication using disk io read request or write request . At least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may form a file set channel via a variety of methods of read or write requests or a combination thereof and transmits and receive file set signaling. Meanwhile the file set signaling of at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may be named cluster set signaling or sector set signaling according to a unit where a bit is transferred.

An application of a host requests generation of a plurality of files to a file system if non standard communication between the host and a storage device is required. In step S the file system of the host generates a set of files in response to a request of the application .

In step S the host transmits a predetermined or alternatively desired pattern of input output requests corresponding to the set of files to generate a file set channel. Here the input output requests may be formed of write or read requests. The file set channel is formed if the storage device recognizes the predetermined or alternatively desired pattern of input output requests transmitted from the host .

After generation of the file set channel in step S the host transmits to the storage device the input output requests corresponding to the set of files to transfer bit data. Each of the input output requests corresponding to the set of files may be viewed as at least one bit to be transmitted. Step S may be iterated to transfer bit data after generation of the file set channel.

A non standard communication method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may transmit bit data using input output requests corresponding to a set of files.

A host generates a set of files for non standard communication S . Afterwards the host transmits a predetermined or alternatively desired pattern of input output requests corresponding to the set of files to generate a file set channel. The file set channel is formed if a storage device recognizes the predetermined or alternatively desired pattern of read requests transmitted from the host S . After generation of the file set channel the host transmits to the storage device the read requests corresponding to the set of files to transfer bit data S . Each of the read requests corresponding to the set of files may be viewed as at least one bit to be transmitted. Step S may be iterated to transfer bit data after generation of the file set channel.

A non standard communication method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may transmit bit data using read corresponding to a set of files.

A host generates a set of files for non standard communication S . A set of files may be written at a storage device by the cluster S therefore the host and the storage device recognize logical addresses on the set of files. Afterwards the host transmits a predetermined or alternatively desired pattern of update or write requests corresponding to the set of files to generate a file set channel S . The file set channel is formed if the storage device recognizes the predetermined or alternatively desired pattern of update requests transmitted from the host S . After generation of the file set channel the host transmits to the storage device the update requests corresponding to the set of files to transfer bit data S . Each of the update requests corresponding to the set of files may be viewed as at least one bit to be transmitted. Step S may be iterated to transfer bit data after generation of the file set channel.

A non standard communication method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may transmit bit data using write corresponding to a set of files.

A storage device receives first input output requests corresponding to a set of files for a file set channel S . The storage device determines whether a pattern of the first input output requests is a predetermined or alternatively desired pattern S . The storage device determines execution of non standard communication if the first input output requests having the predetermined or alternatively desired pattern are received. At this time a file set channel for the non standard communication may be formed.

Afterwards the storage device receives second input output requests corresponding to a set of files to receive bit data via file set signaling S . The storage device interprets the second input output requests received via the file set channel as bit data transmitted from a host S .

A non standard communication according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may receive bit data based on input output requests corresponding to a set of files.

A vendor command may be for example a command that is specific to a particular vendor or model of the host and or the storage device .

A vendor command executing method according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may transmit a vendor command for file set signaling.

Examples of devices according to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts will now be discussed below. One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are applicable to any electronic device using a micro SD card.

An operating system installed on a general mobile device does not grant a root authority to an application. In this case the application may not issue a command for executing firmware update even though a memory card e.g. SD card micro SD card MMC eMMC etc. has a firmware update function.

In contrast the mobile device according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts performs firmware update on the micro SD card without restriction because it effectuates non standard communication using file set signaling based on a normal input output request.

One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are applicable to an electronic device that recognizes Universal Flash Storage UFS .

The mobile device according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts manages the UFS device via non standard communication using file set signaling without communication restriction.

One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are applicable to an electronic device that uses a main memory.

The at least one master chip M and the at least one slave chip S may transmit and receive signals via through silicon via TSV . The master chip may exchange a clock signal CLK a command address signal CA and data DQ with the memory controller . The master chip may transfer a signal from an external device to the slave chip via TSV or provide the memory controller with a signal output from the slave chip.

The central processing unit and the memory controller are configured to effectuate non standard communication using file set signaling according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts. For example the central processing unit may have the structure and operation described above with respect to for the host and the storage device may have the structure and operation described above with respect to for the data storage device .

One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are applicable to a solid state drive SSD .

Each of the nonvolatile memory devices may be a NAND flash memory a vertical NAND flash memory VNAND a NOR flash memory a resistive RAM RRAM a phase change RAM PRAM a magnetoresistive RAM MRAM an STT RAM Spin Transfer Torque Random Access Memory or the like. Also each of the nonvolatile memory devices may be implemented to have a three dimensional array structure. The inventive concepts are applicable to not only a flash memory device where a charge storage layer is formed of a floating gate but also a charge trap flash CTF memory where a charge storage layer is formed of an insulation film.

The nonvolatile memory devices are implemented to be provided with an external high voltage VPPx optionally. The SSD controller is connected to the nonvolatile memory devices through a plurality of channels CH1 to CHi i being an integer of 2 or more . The SSD controller includes one or more processors a buffer memory an ECC block a host interface and a nonvolatile memory interface . The SSD controller is configured to perform non standard communication using file set signaling with an external host.

The buffer memory stores data needed to drive the SSD controller . According to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts the buffer memory may include a plurality of memory lines each of which stores data or a command. In the buffer memory is illustrated as being included in the SSD controller . However one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are not limited thereto. The buffer memory may be placed outside of the SSD controller . The ECC block is configured to correct an error of data used at an input output operation. Although not shown in a code memory may be further included to store code data needed to drive the SSD controller . The code memory may be implemented with a nonvolatile memory device.

The host interface provides an interface with an external device. The nonvolatile memory interface provides an interface with the nonvolatile memory devices .

The SSD according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may effectuate non standard communication without restriction of the host for example in the manner described above with respect to .

One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are applicable to an eMMC e.g. an embedded multimedia card moviNAND iNAND etc. .

The NAND flash memory device is a single data rate SDR NAND flash memory device or a double data rate DDR NAND flash memory device. Or the NAND flash memory device is a vertical NAND flash memory device VNAND .

The controller is connected to the NAND flash memory device via a plurality of channels. The controller includes one or more controller cores a host interface and a NAND interface . The controller core may control an overall operation of the eMMC . The host interface is configured to perform an interface between the controller and a host. The NAND interface is configured to provide an interface between the NAND flash memory device and the controller . According to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts the host interface may be a parallel interface e.g. MMC interface . According to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts the host interface of the eMMC may additionally or alternatively be a serial interface e.g. UHS II UFS interface etc. .

The controller is configured to effectuate non standard communication using file set signaling with the host as described with reference to . The controller may be implemented with at least one of a hardware configuration and a configuration that combines hardware with software and or firmware for non standard communication.

The eMMC receives power supply voltages Vcc and Vccq from the host. Here the power supply voltage Vcc e.g. about 3.3 V may be supplied to the NAND flash memory device and the NAND interface and the power supply voltage Vccq e.g. about 1.8 V 3.3 V may be supplied to the controller . According to one or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts the eMMC may be optionally supplied with an external high voltage.

The eMMC according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may effectuate non standard communication using file set signaling according to a host request without restriction thereby providing convenient management for example in the manner described above with respect to .

One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are applicable to Universal Flash Storage UFS.

Meanwhile the embedded UFS device and the removable UFS card may perform communications using protocols different from the UFS protocol. The UFS host and the removable UFS card may communicate through various card protocols e.g. UFDs MMC SD secure digital mini SD Micro SD etc. .

The application processor controls an overall operation of the mobile device . The application processor may be configured in the same shown in . The communication module is implemented to perform wireless or wire communications with an external device. The display touch module is implemented to display data processed by the application processor or to receive data through a touch panel. The storage device is implemented to store user data. The storage device may be but is not limited to a memory card an eMMC an SSD or an UFS device. The storage device may be implemented with a storage device shown in .

The mobile RAM is configured to temporarily store data needed for a processing operation of the mobile device .

The mobile device according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts effectuates non standard communication a file set thereby improving system performance overall.

One or more example embodiments of inventive concepts include issuing disk io to effectuate non standard communication with a storage device. One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts may be used regardless of hardware restriction and software restriction. Here the hardware restriction may mean what may not be defined by the standard interface communication protocol of a storage device and the software restriction may mean the situation where the standard protocol is not used due to a lack of the authority of a running application even through the standard protocol exists.

The file set signaling method may be used under conditions a transfer of information to a storage device from an application acquirement of information from the storage device a request of the application on a custom feature to the storage device.

One or more example embodiments of the inventive concepts are configured to include an application and a storage device. Here the storage device is applicable to all storage medium capable of generating io such as HDD hard disk drive SSD solid state drive Flash Thumb drive and so on. Also if an application performs an input output on a file using a corresponding OS file io api a corresponding OS file system uses a characteristic of converting it into a sector address. Also if an application directly appoints a sector address causing generation of io or names a sector address such a sector address is used for non standard communication without modification.

At least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may provide a method capable of communicating with a storage device regardless of a type of a standardized interface of the storage device and a type of a file system installed on the storage device.

A memory system and or a storage device according to at least one example embodiment of the inventive concepts may be packaged according to any of a variety of different packaging technologies. Examples of such packaging technologies may include PoP Package on Package Ball grid arrays BGAs Chip scale packages CSPs Plastic Leaded Chip Carrier PLCC Plastic Dual In Line Package PDIP Die in Waffle Pack Die in Wafer Form Chip On Board COB Ceramic Dual In Line Package CERDIP Plastic Metric Quad Flat Pack MQFP Small Outline SOIC Shrink Small Outline Package SSOP Thin Small Outline TSOP Thin Quad Flatpack TQFP System In Package SIP Multi Chip Package MCP Wafer level Fabricated Package WFP Wafer Level Processed Stack Package WSP and the like.

Example embodiments of the inventive concepts having thus been described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the intended spirit and scope of example embodiments of the inventive concepts and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

