---

title: Methods and apparatus for improving coverage and capacity in a wireless network
abstract: A non-transitory processor-readable medium stores code to cause a processor to receive a performance indicator associated with a first mode. The code causes the processor to calculate, using the performance indicator associated with the first mode, a first metric value associated with a first metric and an objective of the first mode. The code causes the processor to calculate, using the first metric value, a second metric value associated with a second metric and an objective of a second mode. The second metric value partially compensates for a change in a performance indicator associated with the second mode when the first metric value is implemented. The code causes the processor to send a signal associated with the first metric value and a signal associated with the second metric value to an antenna module such that the antenna module implements the first metric value and the second metric value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113353&OS=09113353&RS=09113353
owner: Reverb Networks, Inc.
number: 09113353
owner_city: Sterling
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150227
---
Some embodiments described herein relate generally to optimizing wireless networks and in particular to methods and apparatus for improving coverage and capacity in wireless networks by automatically reconfiguring transmit power and antenna tilt of multiple network elements.

Some known wireless networks implement an automated system for network optimization which adjust radio resources and network parameters to improve the overall network performance. Such systems however typically are not designed to continuously optimize coverage and capacity within the wireless network by automatically reconfiguring transmit power and antenna tilt of multiple network elements while limiting any decrease in network performance e.g. due to interference between two antenna cells . Further some known network optimization systems fail to suitably react and readjust to differences between planned coverage and capacity and actual in use coverage and capacity.

Accordingly a need exists for methods and apparatus for automatically reconfiguring transmit power and antenna tilt of one or more network elements to improve the overall network performance of the wireless network.

A non transitory processor readable medium stores code to cause a processor to receive at a first time a value associated with each key performance indicator from a set of key performance indicators associated with a wireless network. In some instances a key performance indicator can be associated with for example a drop call rate. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to identify based on the value associated with each key performance indicator from the set of key performance indicators a geographic area having a network performance problem at the first time. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to send in response to identifying the network performance problem and to a down cell detection module an inactive cell request to identify inactive antenna cells from a set of antenna cells associated with the geographic area. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to receive in response to the inactive cell request an indication that each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells is active. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to send in response to the geographic area having the network performance problem at the first time a neighbor relation update request for each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to update at a second time after the first time a neighbor list associated with that antenna cell. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to classify the network performance problem as a coverage hole in response to identifying the network performance problem at a third time. The third time is a predetermined time after the second time.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a coverage hole detection module implemented in at least one of a memory or a processing device. The coverage hole detection module is configured to receive at a first time a value associated with each key performance indicator from a set of key performance indicators associated with a wireless network. In some instances a key performance indicator can be associated with for example a drop call rate an indication of received signal power at a set of user devices an estimate of propagation time between the set of user devices and an access point associated with an antenna cell from the plurality of antenna cells available resources at a set of user devices a radio resource utilization rate at an antenna cell and or an indication of devices changing technology within the geographic area The coverage hole detection module is configured to identify based on the value associated with each key performance indicator from the set of key performance indicators a geographic area having a network performance problem at the first time. The coverage hole detection module is configured to send in response to identifying the network performance problem and to a down cell detection module an inactive cell request to identify inactive antenna cells from a set of antenna cells associated with the geographic area. The coverage hole detection module is configured to receive from the down cell detection module and in response to the inactive cell request an indication that each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells is active. The coverage hole detection module is configured to send in response to the geographic area having the network performance problem at the first time and to a neighbor relation module a neighbor relation update request for each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to update at a second time after the first time a neighbor list associated with that antenna cell. The coverage hole detection module is configured to classify the network performance problem as a coverage hole in response to the coverage hole detection module identifying the network performance problem at a third time. The third time is a predetermined time after the second time.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a coverage hole mitigation module implemented in at least one of a memory or a processing device. The coverage hole mitigation module is configured to receive an indication of a coverage hole within a geographic area and associated with multiple antenna cells associated with an antenna. The coverage hole mitigation module is configured to identify a first antenna cell 1 from the multiple antenna cells and 2 to use to mitigate the coverage hole. The coverage hole mitigation module is configured to send a signal to change a tilt of the antenna from a first position to a second position at a first time. The coverage hole mitigation module is configured to send at a second time after the first time a signal to increase power of the first antenna cell from a first power level to a second power level in response to at least one of 1 an adverse effect on a coverage area associated with a second antenna cell from the multiple antenna cells and during a predetermined time period after the first time or 2 a limit associated with the tilt of the antenna.

The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to further analyze periodically and upon expiration of a detection timer for a wireless network a first value of each key performance indicator from a set of key performance indicators for the wireless network. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to identify based on the first value associated with at least one key performance indicator from the set of key performance indicators a geographic area having a network performance problem at a time. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to send in response to the geographic area having the coverage network performance problem at the time a neighbor relation request to update a neighbor list associated with at least one antenna cell from a set of antenna cells associated with the geographic area. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to initiate a neighbor relation timer associated with the at least one antenna cell based on sending the neighbor relation request. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to upon expiration of the neighbor relation timer identify the network performance problem as a coverage hole if a second value associated with the at least one key performance indicator does not meet a predetermined criterion. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to send in response to identifying the network performance problem as a coverage hole a signal to modify at least one of a power associated with the at least one antenna cell from the set of antenna cells or a tilt of an antenna including the at least one antenna cell from the set of antenna cells. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to initiate a monitor timer and an action timer for the antenna in relation to the signal to modify at least one of the power or the antenna tilt. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to upon expiration of the monitor timer receive a third value of each key performance indicator from the set of key performance indicators and determine improvement or decrease in performance associated with the antenna based on the third value of the at least one key performance indicator from the set of key performance indicators. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to upon expiration of the action timer send a signal to further modify at least one of the power associated with the at least one antenna cell from the set of antenna cells or the tilt of the antenna if a fourth value of the at least one key performance indicator from the set of key performance indicators meets a predetermined criterion.

As used herein an antenna can be any device or component that can radiate transmit and or receive signals e.g. electromagnetic and or radio waves . For example an antenna can include an element or device for transmitting and or receiving radio frequency signals within a communications network.

As used herein an antenna cell can be a portion of an antenna associated circuitry and or associated component s that defines a coverage area for a particular frequency technology 3Generation 3G geographic area and or power level. A perimeter of the coverage area can be defined at least in part by the antenna cell. Further the antenna cell can define at least in part an effective operating range for transmitting and receiving signals. In some embodiments an antenna cell and its associated circuitry and or components can be associated with a particular radio frequency a particular technology Long Term Evolution LTE and or a particular provider of such services. In some embodiments multiple antenna cells can be associated with a common antenna. An antenna cell can also be referred to as an antenna portion.

As used herein a coverage area can be an area defined by an effective operating range of a transmitter and or antenna cell. Outside of the coverage area for example can be an ineffective operation range of the transmitter and or the antenna cell associated with the coverage area. Each coverage area can be associated with a particular antenna cell. Further a coverage area or a perimeter thereof can be modified by modifying configuration parameters of the antenna cell associated with that coverage area e.g. by modifying tilt and or power .

As used herein an antenna sector can be multiple antenna cells associated with a common antenna. For example an antenna sector can include a first antenna cell e.g. associated with a first technology or frequency and a second antenna cell e.g. associated with a second technology or frequency . For example each antenna cell of an antenna can be within a common antenna sector.

As used herein a module can be for example any assembly and or set of operatively coupled electrical components associated with performing a specific function and can include for example a memory a processor electrical traces optical connectors software executing in hardware and or the like. As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example the term a coverage hole detection module is intended to mean a single module or a combination of modules configured to perform coverage hole detection functions.

Specifically the wireless network can be any network that enables wireless communication devices e.g. cellular phones Wi Fi enabled laptops Bluetooth devices mobile devices etc. to communicate with each other. In some embodiments the wireless network can be implemented and administered using wireless transmission such as radio frequency RF waves. For example the wireless network can be a cellular network that enables two cellular phones to communicate with each other. For another example the wireless network can be a Wi Fi network that enables multiple Wi Fi enabled laptops to be operatively connected. In some embodiments the wireless network can be at least a portion of for example a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless mesh network a wireless metropolitan area network MAN a wireless wide area network WAN a mobile device network e.g. a global system for mobile communications GSM network a personal communications service PCS network a radio access network RAN a long term evolution LTE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and or the like.

As shown in the wireless network includes a network optimization device a network database one or more controllers e.g. controllers and one or more network elements such as base stations e.g. base stations for supporting data communication between subscriber devices not shown in distributed throughout coverage areas e.g. coverage areas defined or established by the wireless network via one or more antennas e.g. antennas and or one or more antenna cells of each antenna .

The network optimization device is operatively coupled to the network database . The network optimization device is also operatively coupled to and configured to manage the one or more controllers e.g. controllers and . Each controller e.g. the controller is operatively coupled to and configured to manage one or more network elements e.g. base stations and . A controller can be any device that is capable of sending control signals e.g. commands instructions requests etc. to the network element s controlled by that controller thus managing operations of the network element s . In some embodiments a controller can be for example a server or similar computer device. In some embodiments a controller can also be considered a network element of the wireless network .

A network element e.g. the base station or controlled by a controller e.g. the controller can be any device component subsystem or infrastructure that can be wirelessly coupled to and communicate with one or more wireless communication devices e.g. communication devices of subscribers to the wireless network . In some embodiments such a network element e.g. the base station can be equipped with and configured to control one or more antennas e.g. the antennas and and or antenna cell s of each antenna which can be used to support data communications e.g. transmit data to and or receive data from between that network element and the wireless communication devices not shown in that are distributed throughout a coverage area s or sector s associated with those antennas . For example as shown in the antenna can support data communications between the base station and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area the antenna can support data communications between a base station where the antenna is located and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area . In some embodiments a network element e.g. base station controlled by a controller can be located at for example a cell site.

In some embodiments the connections between the network optimization device and the one or more controllers e.g. the controllers and and the network database can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections. Similarly the connections between each controller e.g. the controller and its associated network element s e.g. the base stations and can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections.

The network database can be implemented in a memory or other storage device that is part of the network optimization device or another device operatively coupled to the network optimization device . The network database can be configured to receive and store information and or data associated with the wireless network such as network statistics current network configurations and performance indicators of the wireless network . Furthermore the network database can be configured to provide or send the stored information and or data to the network optimization device . The information and or data can be used at the network optimization device to monitor optimize or improve network performance of the wireless network as described in detail with respect to . Such information and or data can include but not limited to key performance indicators KPIs such as transmitted radio power level value of a coverage area an indication of received signal power at a set of user devices e.g. set of wireless communication devices a successful call rate SCR value of a cell traffic statistical values associated with a cell handover statistical values associated with a cell a drop call rate DCR value associated with a cell an estimate of propagation time between a set of user device and an access point associated with an antenna cell available resources at an access point available resources at the set of user devices a radio resource utilization rate a radio resource utilization rate at the access point an indication of devices changing technology discussed in further detail herein particularly with reference to within a geographic area and or the like. One example of a change of technology includes changing from evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN coverage or long term evolution LTE coverage to 2G or 3G coverage. While shown in as being located on a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network database can be distributed to multiple devices e.g. multiple databases across the wireless network .

The network optimization device can be any device configured to control monitor coordinate and or execute one or more optimization processes e.g. hardware processes and or software processes executed in hardware for performing optimization of network parameters e.g. coverage capacity interference etc. in the wireless network . In some embodiments the network optimization device can be for example a compute device a server device an application server a mobile device a workstation and or the like. As shown in the network optimization device can be directly or operatively coupled to the remaining devices within the wireless network . Specifically the network optimization device can be operatively coupled to the network elements e.g. the base stations and via one or multiple intermediate modules and or devices such as for example a controller e.g. the controller or and or the like. In some embodiments the network optimization device can be coupled to the remaining devices of the wireless network via any suitable connecting mechanism such as for example optical connections e.g. optical cables and optical connectors electrical connections e.g. electrical cables and electrical connectors wireless connections e.g. wireless transceivers and antennas and or the like. Furthermore while shown in as a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network optimization device can be distributed to multiple devices e.g. multiple servers across the wireless network .

In some embodiments the process for improving and or optimizing coverage and capacity in the wireless network can be executed at a processor of the network optimization device . illustrates a block diagram of a network optimization device configured to coordinate and or execute improvement and or optimization in a wireless network according to an embodiment. The network optimization device shown in can be structurally and functionally similar to the network optimization device shown and described with respect to . The network optimization device can be included in a wireless network similar to the wireless network shown and described with respect to .

As shown in the network optimization device includes at least a memory and a processor . Although not shown in the network optimization device can include other components such as one or more communication ports a user interface and or the like. The memory can be for example a random access memory RAM a memory buffer a hard drive a database an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM a read only memory ROM and or so forth. The memory can store instructions to cause the processor to execute modules e.g. coverage hold detection module processes and or functions associated with the network optimization device the network database e.g. network database as shown in and or other suitable components or modules within the wireless network . In some instances the network optimization device can be a single physical device. In other instances the modules and or functions of the network optimization device can be distributed to multiple physical devices each of which can include one or multiple modules shown in and or other components not shown in .

As shown in the processor includes a coverage hole detection module a neighbor relation module a down cell detection module and a coverage hole mitigation module each of which can be operatively coupled to the other modules. In some embodiments the processor can include more or less modules than shown in . Each module in the processor can be any combination of a hardware based module e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP and or software based module e.g. a module of computer code stored in memory and or executed at the processor capable of performing one or more specific functions associated with that module. The processor can be any suitable processor configured to run and or execute the modules .

As will be discussed in further detail herein the coverage hole detection module the down cell detection module the neighbor relation module and the coverage hole mitigate module can cooperatively function to identify coverage holes from network performance problems mitigate the coverage holes while reducing and or minimizing potential detriment or interference within the wireless network resulting from such mitigation and monitor actual performance during and after mitigation.

Referring back to in operation the network optimization module can based at least in part on one or more key performance indicators KPIs improve and or optimize coverage and capacity within the network . In some embodiments for example the coverage hole detection module of the network optimization device can identify or detect based on a value associated with one or more KPIs e.g. a drop call rate an indication of received signal power at a set of user devices an estimate of propagation time between the set of user devices and an access point associated with an antenna cell from the plurality of antenna cells available resources at the access point available resources at the set of user devices a radio resource utilization rate at the access point an indication of devices changing technology within the geographic area etc. a geographic area having a network performance problem e.g. a coverage hole cell interference inactive cell inaccurate and or outdated neighbor data etc. . A network performance problem can include any portion of a wireless network operating at less than a desired performance level.

Before classifying or identifying a network performance problem as a coverage hole and subsequently taking action to mitigate the coverage hole in some embodiments it can be desirable to eliminate or rule out potential causes of the network performance problem. One potential cause of or contributor to a network performance problem can be an inactive antenna cell associated with the geographic area experiencing the network performance problem. For example if a network performance problem is caused by an inactive cell the network performance problem may be mitigated by fixing the antenna cell associated with that inactive cell. Similarly stated if the network performance problem is caused by an inactive cell the network performance problem will not be classified as a coverage hole. If however the network performance problem is not caused by an inactive cell the network performance problem can potentially be classified as a coverage hole.

To diagnose in some instances the coverage hole detection module can send to the down cell detection module an inactive cell request to identify any inactive antenna cells associated with that geographic area. In response to the request the down cell detection module can determine and or identify any such inactive or insufficiently functioning antenna or antenna cell s . For example the down cell detection module can access a list of current inactive cells and or query one or more antenna cells or associated components to identify any such inactive cells. The down cell detection module can then send to the coverage hole detection module a signal representing its determination or identification. Similarly stated the coverage hole detection module can receive from the down cell detection module and in response to the inactive cell request a status indication of one or more antenna or antenna cells.

Further another potential cause of or contributor to a network performance problem is an inaccurate or outdated neighbor relation list. For example if a neighbor list is not up to date neighbor antenna cells or subscriber devices in communication or desirous of communication therewith may experience handover issues. Thus in some embodiments it can be desirable to determine whether the network performance problem is caused by or related to an inaccurate neighbor relation list. If the network performance problem is caused by an inaccurate neighbor relation list an update to the list may improve or eliminate the network performance problem. As such a network performance problem caused any an inaccurate neighbor relation list will not be classified as a coverage hole.

To diagnose in some instances the coverage hole detection module can send to the neighbor relation module a neighbor relation update request for one or more antenna cells in a geographic area associated with an indication of a network performance problem to update a neighbor list associated with that antenna cell. In instances in which the coverage hole detection module identifies the network performance problem upon expiration of a predetermined time period after sending a neighbor relation update request it can be assumed that the network performance problem is not caused by or related to an inaccurate neighbor list or associated handover issues. As such in some embodiments the coverage hole detection module can classify a network performance problem as a coverage hole when each antenna cell within a particular geographic area associated with the network performance problem is active and a neighbor list associated with each antenna cell within the geographic area is up to date and or accurate.

In some instances the coverage hole detection module can receive from the down cell detection module e.g. in response to identifying a network performance problem within a geographic area an indication that each antenna cell associated with that geographic area is active. In response to receiving the indication in some instances the coverage hole detection module can send to the neighbor relation module a neighbor relation update request for each antenna cell within that geographic area to update a neighbor list. If the coverage hole detection module subsequently e.g. at a pre determined time or after expiration of a pre determined time period identifies the network performance problem the coverage hole detection module can classify that network performance problem as a coverage hole.

Once a network performance problem has been classified as a coverage hole the coverage hole mitigation module of the network optimization device can improve and or optimize the wireless network by mitigating the coverage hole. In some embodiments for example the coverage hole mitigation module can receive from the coverage hole detection module an indication of a coverage hole within a geographic area. The indication can include an association between the coverage hole and multiple antenna cells associated with an antenna. Based upon such an indication the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to antennas or associated components or devices within the network to modify a power and or an antenna tilt associated with one or more antenna cells.

In some instances the coverage hole mitigation module can identify e.g. based on KPI s associated with a geographic area having a network performance problem and or based on a ranking as discussed in further detail herein associated with the antenna cell s a first antenna cell 1 from the multiple antenna cells and 2 to use to mitigate the coverage hole. In some instances it can be desirable to modify the tilt of an antenna rather than a power of the antenna to maintain or optimize balanced uplink and downlink communications between the antenna and associated subscriber devices. As such in some instances upon identifying the first antenna cell to use to mitigate the coverage hole the mitigation module can send a signal to the antenna or a controller operably coupled thereto associated with the first antenna cell to change a tilt of its associated antenna from a first position to a second position. In some instances the tilt change can mitigate the coverage hole. Further in some cases e.g. if the initial tilt change only partially mitigated the coverage hole the coverage mitigation module can send a signal to change the tilt of the antenna from the second position to a third position to further mitigate the coverage hole. In some instances however based on a tilt limit of the antenna e.g. the antenna cannot change from the second position to the third position tilt modification may not be sufficient for mitigating a coverage hole. In such instances the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to change a power level of the antenna cell to further mitigate the coverage hole. In this manner tilt and power modifications can collectively mitigate the coverage hole.

In other instances however such a tilt change may result in no significant change or may result in an adverse effect on a coverage area associated with a second antenna cell from the multiple antenna cells. In such cases in response to the adverse effect e.g. identified based on one or more KPIs on the coverage area associated with the second antenna cell during a predetermined time period after the coverage hole mitigation module sent the signal to change the tilt the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to re adjust the tilt of the first antenna e.g. revert the tilt to a different configuration or a prior configuration from the second position to the first position .

Upon reversion or re adjustment of the first antenna tilt the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to adjust the power of the first antenna cell from a first power level to a second power level. In desirable instances sending the signal to adjust the power of the first antenna cell from the first power level to the second power level can result in an improvement in a value of one or more KPIs. In such instances the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to increase the power of the first antenna cell from the second power level to a third power level. In this manner the coverage hole mitigation module can incrementally optimize the coverage and capacity within that geographic area while continually monitoring e.g. via KPIs the network performance.

In other instances however sending the signal to adjust the power from the first power level to the second power level can produce an undesirable result or change within the wireless network e.g. an indication of devices changing technology within the geographic area interference issues capacity issues etc. In some instances based on identification of such an adverse effect on one or more of the antenna cells the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to change the power of the first antenna cell from the second power level to the first power level i.e. revert back to the initial power level . In such instances it can be desirable to revert back expediently to mitigate the adverse effect. In some embodiments for example a time period to change the power of the first antenna cell from the second power level to the first power level e.g. based on identification of an adverse effect on one or more antenna cells is less than a time period to further increase the power of the first antenna cell from the second power level to the third power level e.g. based on the improvement of one or more antenna cells .

In some instances the first antenna cell can meet a capacity limit after its power is increased e.g. from the first power level to the second power level . In such instances the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to change the power of the first antenna cell from the second power level to the first power level or to a power level there between suitable to address any capacity limit issues.

In some instances the antenna can meet a capacity limit during or after its tilt increase e.g. from the first tilt position to the second tilt position . In such instances the coverage hole mitigation module can send a signal to change the tilt of the antenna from the second tilt position to the first tilt position or to a tilt position there between suitable to address any capacity limit issues.

Modifications to the power level and or the tilt of an antenna selected to mitigate a coverage hole can incremental and can be triggered in any suitable order. Such incremental modifications can allow for better monitoring control and reaction to effects on network performance.

Before after or while modifying a power level and or tilt of an antenna cell to modify a coverage hole within a wireless network potential interference to the antenna cell s neighbors can be monitored reduced and or minimized. also referred to herein as potential victims . illustrates a use case example of such interference management and improvement within a wireless network having a detected coverage hole CH according to an embodiment. As shown the wireless network includes three candidate antenna cells i.e. antenna cell A antenna cell B antenna cell C with established cell coverage areas surrounding the coverage hole CH and two potential victim antenna cells i.e. antenna cell D antenna cell E .

Potential victim antenna cells can be identified and or selected for interference management based on for example a value associated with handovers an azimuth angle a beamwidth and or a distance estimated by an estimate of propagation time and or geographic information such as latitude and longitude data.

As shown by the coverage areas established from each candidate antenna cell the three candidate antenna cells A B and C are available to mitigate the coverage hole CH e.g. by adjustment in antenna power level and or tilt . Notwithstanding neighbor interference issues i.e. disregarding potential victim antenna cells D E in some embodiments a candidate antenna cell from the three candidate antenna cells can be selected to mitigate the coverage hole CH based on a predefined ranking for example a cost based ranking e.g. a cost value to modify a configuration of a given antenna cell . A cost value can be based on for example a value associated with dropped calls a value associated with handovers a value associated with other user devices likely to be affected by a mitigation action distances from tilt or power limits and or proximity to the coverage hole. Further antenna cells and or in some instances potential victim antenna cells can be selected for mitigation action based on for example an azimuth angle a beamwidth and or a distance estimated by an estimate of propagation time and or geographic information such as latitude and longitude data.

As a further example capacity of the antenna cells can serve as an additional or alternative factor for determining ranking. For example if candidate antenna cell A can handle a first number of subscriber devices and candidate antenna cell B can handle a second number of subscriber devices larger than the first number of subscriber devices candidate antenna cell B may be more suitable than candidate antenna cell A for mitigating certain coverage holes requiring a certain capacity.

As yet an additional or alternative factor for ranking purposes a candidate antenna cell can be selected to use to at least partially mitigate the coverage hole CH based on a portion of the coverage hole CH associated with that antenna cell being greater than a portion of the coverage hole associated with each remaining candidate antenna cells. As an example if candidate antenna cell A can be reconfigured to mitigate 50 of coverage hole CH and candidate antenna cell B can be reconfigured to mitigate only 20 of coverage hole CH candidate antenna cell A will be ranked higher than candidate antenna cell B. Further to this example in some instances based on a cost value associated with modifying a configuration of antenna cell A being significantly higher than a cost value associated with modifying a configuration of antenna cell B candidate antenna cell B may have a ranking higher than candidate antenna cell A in some instances even when the candidate antenna cell A can be reconfigured to mitigate a larger portion of the coverage hole CH than the candidate antenna cell B. Assuming for discussion purposes that candidate antenna cell A is ranked higher than candidate antenna cell B and the candidate antenna cell B is ranked higher than the candidate antenna cell C when the coverage hole CH is detected candidate antenna cell A is initially selected based on its ranking to mitigate the coverage hole CH.

Candidate antenna cell A and candidate antenna cell B can share a common potential victim antenna cell i.e. potential victim antenna cell D within their established cells. Similarly stated if both candidate antenna cell A and candidate antenna cell B were to collectively or substantially simultaneously adjust their power levels or tilt settings to mitigate the coverage hole CH potential victim antenna cell D may experience interference issues due to being within the coverage areas established by candidate antenna cell A and candidate antenna cell B. To minimize or avoid such interference issues in this example the configurations of candidate antenna cell A and candidate antenna cell B are not collectively or substantially simultaneously modified to mitigate the coverage hole CH.

Turning to the next best antenna cell to help mitigate the coverage hole CH i.e. candidate antenna cell C as shown in does not share a common potential victim antenna with candidate antenna cell A. Similarly stated potential victim antenna cell D is within the coverage area of candidate antenna cell A but not within the coverage area of candidate antenna cell C. In this manner candidate antenna cell A and candidate antenna cell C can be collectively or substantially simultaneously reconfigured to mitigate the coverage hole CH while minimizing or limiting interference with neighbor antenna cells e.g. potential victim antenna cell D .

Referring back to in some instances the network optimization device and or can conduct such an interference management or mitigation process. In such embodiments the coverage hole mitigation module e.g. coverage hole mitigation module can for each antenna cell from multiple antenna cells detect one or more potential victim antenna cells within an area covered by that antenna cell if that antenna cell were used to mitigate a coverage hole. The coverage hole mitigation module can then select a first antenna cell from the multiple antenna cells to use to mitigate the coverage hole and send a signal to modify a configuration associated with the first antenna cell to at least partially mitigate the coverage hole.

As discussed with respect to due to potential interference in some instances the coverage hole mitigation module will not use a second antenna cell from the multiple antenna cells to mitigate the coverage hole based on an antenna cell from the one or more detected potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the second antenna cell being within the one or more potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the first antenna cell. The coverage hole mitigation module instead can send a signal to modify a configuration associated with a third antenna cell from the multiple antenna cells based on each antenna cell from the one or more detected potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the third antenna cell not being within the one or more potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the first antenna cell.

Capacity and coverage optimization CCO of the wireless network can be an iterative process based on many factors and can include detecting managing reconfiguring and monitoring many network elements and components as discussed above. As such in some embodiments various timers can be employed to detect manage and or monitor performance changes in the wireless network. and illustrate a process for using timers when implementing CCO for cells without automatic neighbor relation ANR updating and cells with ANR updating respectively. ANR is a function used by some cellular network technologies e.g. LTE to relieve an operator from managing neighbor relations.

For ease of illustration the timers can be divided into two categories i.e. identification timers and mitigation timers. The detection timer Time Det and the neighbor relation timer Time ANR are classified as identification timers and can specify time periods in which to detect network performance problems and identify when such problems should be classified as coverage holes. The action timer Time Act and monitor timer Time Mon are classified as mitigation timers.

As shown in first the detection timer Time Det is started for the network. During this detection period defined by the detection timer see CCO Detection Time Interval network performance problems are detected and identified within the network including cell F based on examining the KPI s or an average of the KPI s associated with cell F and the detection period. If no network performance problems are identified upon expiration of the detection timer the detection timer is reset thereby resulting in a new set of KPI s to be analyzed and used to identify network performance problems within the network.

Upon identification of a network performance problem the antenna cell s associated with the network performance problem e.g. antenna cell F proceeds from following the detection timer e.g. the detection timer can be associated with all antenna cells in the network to following the neighbor relation timer specific to cell F which is triggered upon expiration of the detection timer and based on the identification of the network performance problem. In other words antenna cell F also referred to herein as a problem cell can transfer from the global timer detection process to a cell specific identification mitigation process.

Because antenna cell F does not use an ANR function as illustrated in a neighbor relation timer Time ANR is activated after the time period CCO Detection Time Interval defined by the detection timer to determine if an outdated or inaccurate neighbor relation list is causing and or contributing to the detected network performance problem. As shown in the neighbor list can be updated shown as NL Updated during the time period or Missing Neighbor Verification Time Interval defined by the neighbor relation timer.

In addition as discussed in further detail herein a down cell detection process can be executed to determine any inactive cells associated with the geographic area of the network performance problem. This process can include for example accessing a list of current inactive cells and or querying one or more antenna cells or associated components to identify any inactive cells.

Upon expiration of the neighbor relation timer and after updating the neighbor list the KPI s associated with that timer i.e. the Missing Neighbor Verification Time Interval are analyzed to determine if the network performance problem still exists. In some embodiments the KPI s associated with the neighbor relation timer can be compared with the KPI s associated with the detection timer. If the network performance problem still exists after the down cell detection process results in no inactive cells identified and neighbor list is updated the network performance problem can be classified as a coverage hole.

In response to identifying the network performance problem as a coverage hole upon expiration of the neighbor relation timer the action timer and the monitor timer are activated shown in and as the beginning of the CCO Action Change Time Interval .

In other embodiments as shown in the antenna cell F can already employ ANR e.g. LTE . In such embodiments an updated and or accurate neighbor list can be accessed without sending a neighbor relation request to update a neighbor list thus rendering in some instances the neighbor relation timer unnecessary. As such the action timer and the monitor timer can be activated upon expiration of the detection timer and based on the identification of a coverage hole within the cell e.g. cell F .

At this time a signal is sent to modify 1 a power associated with one or more antenna cells that are associated with the problem cell e.g. antenna cell F and or 2 a tilt of an antenna of one or more antenna cells that are associated with the problem cell e.g. antenna cell F . In other words suitable antenna cells are modified also referred to herein as a CCO Action Change to mitigate the coverage hole in the problem cell.

During a duration associated with the action timer the CCO Action Change Time Interval and a duration associated with the monitor timer the Monitoring Time Interval the KPI s or average of the KPI s associated with one or both of those durations are analyzed to determine network performance and or a change thereto. For example a set of KPIs can be monitored during each monitor period defined by the monitoring time interval s . Upon expiration of each monitor timer the KPI s collected and or monitored during that time period can be analyzed for status of and or changes to status of network performance. Further upon expiration up each action timer based on the assessment of the data e.g. KPI s monitored during the associated monitoring time interval progressive action mitigation can occur. When an action e.g. power or tilt is executed monitoring according to the appropriate monitor timer and associated interval will occur to assess the results of the action s on network performance. Similarly stated correlative results between the action change power or tilt and the network performance based on KPI s can be monitored defined analyzed acted upon and re acted upon.

In some embodiments a duration associated with the monitor timer can be less than a duration associated with the action timer. This is illustrated in and by the Monitoring Time Interval disposed between the Start Time Act and the Restart Time Mon. In this manner upon expiration of the monitor timer but before expiration of the action timer the CCO action change can be modified or reverted back to initial or prior settings. For example based on determining a decrease in performance associated with the one or more antenna cells a signal can be sent to revert the power associated with the one or more antenna cells or the tilt of the antenna of the one or more antenna cells to a prior configuration.

In this manner effects on network performance by CCO action changes can be monitored periodically or in substantially real time such that any undesirable effects can be sensibly and relatively quickly mitigated. For example consider the case where a CCO action change includes three power steps modifications then two tilt position changes and then one more power modification. A monitor timer can be employed and reset multiple times e.g. 6 times before the above action changes are implemented. As such a decrease in performance associated with the antenna receiving the CCO action change can be identified relatively quickly and appropriate action e.g. revert to a prior configuration can be taken. Accordingly adverse effects can be identified and mitigated within a shorter time period than taking additional progressive action to mitigate a coverage hole.

In some embodiments CCO can be applied to antenna cells at a single antenna or antenna sector. illustrates a process for using timers when implementing CCO for antenna cells similar to the process described with respect to and more particularly synchronizing timers associated with multiple antenna cells at a single antenna according to an embodiment. As shown in cell A.1 and cell A.2 are collocated in Sector A e.g. are associated with a common antenna and each have associated therewith similar to the discussion above with respect to an action timer and a monitor timer.

As an example in use a network performance problem can be detected in cell A.1 during the CCO Detection Time Interval. In this example similar to the antenna of the cells A.1 and A2. has ANR and as such a neighbor relation timer is unnecessary. Upon expiration of the A.1 detection timer at and an indication of no inactive cells within the associated geographic area the A.1 action timer and A.1 monitor timer can be triggered to coincide with instructions to modify a power or tilt associated with cell A.1.

As shown in at the expiration of the A.1 detection timer at and the start of the A.1 action timer and the A.1 monitor timer the A.2 detection timer resets i.e. a new CCO detection time interval for cell A.2 begins and a new set of KPI s are averaged and analyzed . At this moment the intervals associated with the A.1 timers are not in sync with the intervals associated with the A.2 timers. Further at it can be determined e.g. based on associated KPI s that cell A.2 should be reconfigured to mitigate a coverage hole and as such instructions can be sent upon expiration of the action timer to modify a power or tilt associated with cell A.2. As shown at the A.1 monitor timer and the A.2 monitor timer are synchronized i.e. the 3and 4monitoring intervals monitor KPI s associated with both cell A.1 and cell A.2 . After a power change associated with one or more cells KPI s uniquely associated with each of those cells can be monitored individually. For example after a power change associated with either antenna cell A.1 or antenna cell A.2 network performance associated with antenna cell A.1 will be analyzed and compared against a performance threshold and network performance associated with antenna cell A.2 will be analyzed and compared against a performance threshold. Further in some instances after a tilt change associated with one or more cells KPI s will be analyzed after being aggregated for the entire sector i.e. for all antenna cells at an antenna . For example in such instances after a tilt change associated with an antenna propagating antenna cell A.1 and antenna cell A.2 monitoring will take place at the sector level i.e. an aggregated performance average for the entire sector e.g. sector A . Further when appropriate according to the aggregated KPI data and upon expiration of the associated action timer progressive action e.g. tilt can be taken for all antenna cells of an antenna.

At the network optimization device can receive at a first time a value associated with each key performance indicator from a set of key performance indicators associated with a wireless network. The set of key performance indicators can include for example a drop call rate an indication of received signal power at a set of user devices an estimate of propagation time between the set of user devices and an access point e.g. a base station similar to base station in and or an antenna similar to antenna in associated with an antenna cell from the set of antenna cells available resources at the set of user devices a radio resource utilization rate at the access point or an indication of devices changing technology within the geographic area. At the network optimization device can identify based on the value associated with each key performance indicator from the set of key performance indicators a geographic area having a network performance problem at the first time.

At the network optimization device can send in response to identifying the network performance problem an inactive cell request to identify inactive antenna cells from a set of antenna cells associated with the geographic area. The inactive cell request for example can be sent to a down cell detection module. At the network optimization device can receive in response to the inactive cell request an indication that each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells is active. As such the network performance problem can be identified as not an inactive cell problem.

At the network optimization device can send in response to the geographic area having the network performance problem at the first time a neighbor relation update request for each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to update at a second time after the first time a neighbor list associated with that antenna cell. In some instances the network optimization device can send the neighbor relation request in response to receiving the indication that each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells is active. If the network performance problem is identified after a predetermined time at the second time the network performance problem can be identified as not a handoff neighbor relation problem.

At the network optimization device can classify the network performance problem as a coverage hole in response to the identifying the network performance problem at a third time. The third time is a predetermined time after the second time. Similarly stated based on the results from the inactive cell request and the neighbor relation update request and identifying the network performance at the third time i.e. after the inactive cell and inaccurate neighbor lists are identified as not the problem the network performance problem can be classified as a coverage hole.

In some embodiments method can include step in which the network optimization device can send a signal to modify at least one of a power or an antenna tilt associated with at least one antenna cell from the set of antenna cells based on the classifying the network performance problem as a coverage hole. In some instances the network optimization device can for each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells detect a set of potential victim antenna cells within an area covered by that antenna cell from the set of antenna cells if that antenna cell from the set of antenna cells were used to mitigate the coverage hole. The network optimization device can select a first antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to use to mitigate the coverage hole and send a signal to modify a configuration associated with the first antenna cell to at least partially mitigate the coverage hole. In some instances the network optimization device does not use a second antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to mitigate the coverage hole based on an antenna cell from the set of potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the second antenna cell being within the set of potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the first antenna cell.

In some instances the network optimization device can for each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells detect a set of potential victim antenna cells within an area covered by that antenna cell from the set of antenna cells if that antenna cell from the set of antenna cells were used to mitigate the coverage hole. The network optimization device can select a first antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to use to mitigate the coverage hole and can send a signal to modify a configuration associated with the first antenna cell to at least partially mitigate the coverage hole. The network optimization device can be configured to send a signal to modify a configuration associated with a second antenna cell from the set of antenna cells based on each antenna cell from the set of potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the second antenna cell not being within the set of potential victim antenna cells within the area covered by the first antenna cell.

In some instances the network optimization device can rank the set of antenna cells based on a cost value to modify a configuration of each antenna cell from the set of antenna cells and at a fourth time after the third time send a signal to change a configuration associated with a first antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to mitigate the coverage hole based on the first antenna cell having a rank meeting a first predetermined criterion. The network optimization device can at a fifth time after the fourth time send a signal to change a configuration associated with a second antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to mitigate the coverage hole based on 1 the second antenna cell from the set of antenna cells having a rank meeting a second predetermined criterion e.g. has the next lowest cost and 2 the first antenna cell from the set of antenna cells not meeting a third predetermined criterion e.g. would cause interference .

In some instances the network optimization device can select an antenna cell from the set of antenna cells to use to at least partially mitigate the coverage hole based on a portion of the coverage hole associated with the antenna cell from the set of antenna cells being greater than a portion of the coverage hole associated with each remaining antenna cell from the set of antenna cells.

When optimizing the capacity and coverage of a wireless network a tradeoff can exist between such coverage and capacity. For example in some cases an expansion in coverage may lead to a decrease in capacity. illustrates an antenna coverage map and associated coverage and capacity plots for a wireless network in three different configurations according to an embodiment. At or current case six subscriber devices or user devices UEs are covered by or in potential communication with the antenna cell AC. At or case 1 with increased power and or tilt coverage is increased as illustrated by increased coverage area and an additional four UEs are within the coverage area. At or case 2 power and or tilt are further increased resulting in increased coverage for the antenna cell AC. As shown at there are newly covered UEs and because of the increased number of UEs and or the distance of such UEs from the antenna cell AC many UEs may experience radio link failure RLF . Thus as coverage is expanded radio link failure events can result due to the lack of available resources at the antenna cell AC. As such when employing a CCO action and monitoring process in some instances the optimization can terminate alter or revert back configuration changes e.g. power or tilt change when a particular cell is overcrowded e.g. case 2 in .

As shown by the Coverage Measure plot of as CCO action e.g. power increase or uptilt modifications is taken coverage increases for a given distance from the antenna. As coverage increases however capacity complications can arise. Thus in some instances an optimized point of coverage and capacity can be identified. For example as shown by the Capacity Measure plot of as CCO action is taken an optimization point can exist at about case 1 e.g. a relatively high use rate and a relatively low radio link failure rate . After such a point any further CCO action e.g. to increase coverage can result in a negligible increase if any in use rate and a significant increase in RLF rate.

While shown in as being included in the processor of the network optimization device in other embodiments a coverage hole detection module down cell detection module neighbor relation module and or coverage hole mitigation module can communicate with any other device of the wireless network via an application programming interface API of a network module and or application a network process an intermediary device and or any other suitable means. Additionally a network optimization device e.g. the network optimization device in can receive network information and or data e.g. key performance indicators from a network database e.g. the network database in or any other device in any suitable format such as for example text files a file format associated with a network and or the like. Similarly the network optimization device can send instructions of configuration and monitoring changes to network elements in any suitable means.

Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer storage product with a non transitory computer readable medium also can be referred to as a non transitory processor readable medium having instructions or computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The computer readable medium or processor readable medium is non transitory in the sense that it does not include transitory propagating signals per se e.g. a propagating electromagnetic wave carrying information on a transmission medium such as space or a cable . The media and computer code also can be referred to as code may be those designed and constructed for the specific purpose or purposes. Examples of non transitory computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic storage media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical storage media such as Compact Disc Digital Video Discs CD DVDs Compact Disc Read Only Memories CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical storage media such as optical disks carrier wave signal processing modules and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Read Only Memory ROM and Random Access Memory RAM devices. Other embodiments described herein relate to a computer program product which can include for example the instructions and or computer code discussed herein.

Examples of computer code include but are not limited to micro code or micro instructions machine instructions such as produced by a compiler code used to produce a web service and files containing higher level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example embodiments may be implemented using Java C or other programming languages e.g. object oriented programming languages and development tools. Additional examples of computer code include but are not limited to control signals encrypted code and compressed code.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only not limitation and various changes in form and details may be made. Where methods described above indicate certain events occurring in certain order the ordering of certain events may be modified. Additionally certain of the events may be performed concurrently in a parallel process when possible as well as performed sequentially as described above. Any portion of the apparatus and or methods described herein may be combined in any combination except mutually exclusive combinations. The embodiments described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the functions components and or features of the different embodiments described.

