---

title: Method and apparatus for associating audio objects with content and geo-location
abstract: An approach is provided for efficiently capturing, processing, presenting, and/or associating audio objects with content items and geo-locations. A processing platform may determine a viewpoint of a viewer of at least one content item associated with a geo-location. Further, the processing platform and/or a content provider may determine at least one audio object associated with the at least one content item, the geo-location, or a combination thereof. Furthermore, the processing platform may process the at least one audio object for rendering one or more elements of the at least one audio object based, at least in part, on the viewpoint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09612311&OS=09612311&RS=09612311
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09612311
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20150713
---
This patent document is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 621 523 filed on Sep. 17 2012 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ASSOCIATING AUDIO OBJECTS WITH CONTENT AND GEO LOCATION which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been in development of applications and services whereby consumers may utilize mapping application services for geo location exploration services which may allow a user to visualize and receive information about a location on a map displayed on a device e.g. mobile device a computer etc. Generally mapping applications utilize still images originating from satellite imagery and or still cameras mounted on vehicles driven through various geo locations. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges in providing applications for a better user experience.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining a viewpoint of a viewer of at least one content item associated with a geo location. The method also comprises determining at least one audio object associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. Further the method also comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the at least one audio object for rendering one or more elements of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the viewpoint.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine a viewpoint of a viewer of at least one content item associated with a geo location. The apparatus is further caused to determine at least one audio object associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. Further the apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the at least one audio object for rendering one or more elements of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the viewpoint.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a viewpoint of a viewer of at least one content item associated with a geo location. The apparatus is further caused to determine at least one audio object associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. Further the apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the at least one audio object for rendering one or more elements of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the viewpoint.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining a viewpoint of a viewer of at least one content item associated with a geo location. The apparatus further comprises means for determining at least one audio object associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. Further the apparatus also comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the at least one audio object for rendering one or more elements of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the viewpoint.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

The term point of interest POI and geo location may be used interchangeably according to some embodiments of the present invention where a certain POI may be a certain object e.g. a building a water fountain a bird a train etc. at a certain geo location and or a geo location may be a POI e.g. an intersection at a given city a street an airport a water fall etc. 

To address at least these problems a system of introduces the capability for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations. In general a given geo location may be characterized by sights sounds smells and other sensory information which may be different and or similar to such characteristics of other geo locations. Further a given geo location may include various POIs where each POI may be associated with an aural characteristic for example a certain bell tower with ringing bells a water fountain at a city park sound of pedestrian traffic near a train station during a rush hour and the like. Typically users may utilize various applications to search for and or consume content items e.g. multimedia information etc. associated with the various POIs for example to see an image of the bell tower an image of the fountain an image of the pedestrian traffic and the like where the images may be presented via various applications e.g. a mapping application multimedia player etc. . However to have an impression of a related sound environment users viewers may wish to receive and consume audio objects e.g. audio samples along with the images for a richer user experience feel of a given geo location e.g. indoors outdoors . In various embodiments a service provider and or an application may aggregate various audio objects associated with a POI where the audio objects may have been collected by one or more service providers and or by one or more users e.g. crowd sourcing .

In various embodiments the audio objects may be based on various lengths of a few seconds for example recordings of ambient sound at a certain geo location where various segments elements of the audio objects may be processed and analyzed in order to determine any modifications that may be required in order to protect privacy e.g. not to recognize complete sentences of speech and or copyright e.g. significant pieces of music . Furthermore one or more elements of the audio objects may be selected and rendered for providing different spatial sound effects e.g. surround stereo etc. which may be based on relative location of a viewer to an object a viewing direction a viewing angle other nearby content items and the like. In one embodiment where multiple content items and audio objects are in a viewing area the viewer may select and or modify the content items and or the audio objects. For example there may be various content items in an image map a plane a train a water fountain and birds where a viewer may select to keep one or more of the content items in the viewing area and may select one or more audio objects and or one or more elements of the one or more audio objects for rendering one or more audio objects for example according to one or more sound effects determined by the viewer one or more applications one or more content providers and or one or more service providers.

In various embodiments when content items e.g. image video information GPS markers etc. for a given geo location e.g. a street view POI physical object environment etc. are generated one or more audio objects e.g. a short sound clip of a few seconds including ambient sound may be captured at the same time before and or after the content items e.g. images are generated. Further the one or more audio objects may be associated with the content items so that a user consuming a content item e.g. an image of a certain street scene may be presented with one or more randomized segments of the one or more audio objects such that the user e.g. a viewer listener may form an impression of sound ambience associated with the content item i.e. the audio object sounds like the street scene in the content item. In one embodiment one or more elements of the one or more audio objects are presented rendered based on relative positions e.g. virtual positions of one or more POIs physical objects persons and the like to a current position selected by the user viewer e.g. virtual position on a map . For example a viewer is utilizing a mapping application to view one or more POIs from a certain perspective in the mapping application wherein the perspective may be controlled by the viewer and or an application. In one embodiment the one or more elements are utilized to add one or more sound effects e.g. a three dimensional 3D sound effect stereo etc. to the rendered audio object. In various embodiments multiple audio objects in an audible distance from the user position e.g. in a virtual map may be aggregated wherein a user and or one or more applications may control one or more elements of one or more audio objects for example based on user movement orientation objects in view and the like.

In one embodiment the audio objects associated with different physical virtual objects may be isolated from each other so that a user and or an application may independently select and or manipulate e.g. loop change effects randomize etc. each audio object and or one or more elements of each audio object. For example a user and or an application may customize ambient sounds associated with content items according to various conditions and desires.

In one embodiment the content items e.g. street view images may be analyzed for determining exact positions of the audio objects sources e.g. people talking with their mouths open birds twittering cars passing by fountains bubbling etc. wherein the positions of the audio objects sources depend on the user s current vantage point in the street view. For example when the user zooms out the image the audio objects are grouped closer e.g. overlapped as they appear to be close to each other in the zoomed out image.

In various embodiments the content items e.g. street view images may be analyzed for determining detecting various possible audio object sources associated with various POIs physical virtual objects geo locations e.g. indoors outdoors museums shopping malls concert halls etc. wherein various audio objects for various detected sources e.g. cars planes trains fountains pedestrian traffic birds parks waterfalls rain etc. may be obtained from an audio database e.g. a content provider . In one embodiment synthesized e.g. electronically produced audio objects may be used to enhance augment modify etc. an audio object for example to improve its quality i.e. an original audio recording may be noisy or add one or more elements for a higher quality to allow better 3D audio rendering. In various examples an audio object source e.g. a fountain a car a bird etc. may be first determined from an original audio recording wherein further matching similar audio objects are obtained through audio sound synthesis. Further the synthesized audio objects may be used to extend an original short recording for example by crossfading between the original recording and the synthesized version. In one embodiment if an audio object contains intelligible audible speech e.g. people talking a synthesized audio object may be utilized to mask the intelligible portions of the audio object and render the audio object as a generic chatter of a crowd e.g. a sound effect imitating the murmur of a crowd in the background .

In one embodiment an audio object may be utilized to search for one or more geo locations and or physical virtual objects associated with the same similar audio object e.g. similar sounding objects places .

In one embodiment one or more audio objects may be utilized for association with various virtual geo locations in various applications e.g. a mapping application and provide related audio ambience for example the audio objects may include metadata indicative of original recording geo locations e.g. geo tagged .

In one embodiment the system determines a viewpoint of a viewer of at least one content item associated with a geo location. In one embodiment a processing platform determines a viewers user s perspective e.g. virtual location viewing angle etc. with reference to a geo location when the user is viewing a content item in the application for example via data from global positioning system GPS compass gyroscope and the like associated with a user device. In one use case a user may utilize a mapping application on a device e.g. a tablet to view one or more content items e.g. images drawings map objects etc. presented via the mapping application and or overlaid onto the mapping application e.g. media items included in a presentation of a map wherein the content items may be renderings of various two dimensional 2D 3D augmented reality AR virtual reality VR and the like representations and or images of objects e.g. buildings people cars birds motorcycles etc. associated with a given geo location e.g. a city center . In various embodiments the viewpoint may be determined by an application may be selected by a user by a service provider and the like. For example a user may utilize a user interface UI to select a viewpoint in a map which may indicate a virtual geo location in the map e.g. the viewer standing at a corner of an intersection at a given city center . In one embodiment the viewpoint may be determined from current and or previous location information associated with a user for example GPS information in a user device. In one embodiment the one or more content items may be captured and or provided by an application a user a content provider a service provider or a combination thereof for example based on location information by the user.

In one embodiment the system determines at least one audio object associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. In various embodiments an application a service provider a content provider a user and the like may provide retrieve and or capture one or more audio objects for association with the a content item an object a geo location and the like. In one instance a service provider may determine from a content item e.g. a picture the geo location information of a POI e.g. a certain city park that is being viewed by a user via an application e.g. a mapping application and may provide cause a retrieval of one or more audio objects associated with the POI and or the surrounding area within an audible distance. For example the geo location of the POI may be associated with audio objects including sounds from a nearby water fountain a bird sanctuary pedestrian traffic and the like. In one embodiment the user may provide the one or more audio objects e.g. from a personal recording from a storage device etc. 

In one embodiment the system processes the at least one audio object for rendering one or more elements of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the viewpoint. In one embodiment a processing platform e.g. via a service provider a content provider a user device etc. may process the one or more audio objects for determining one or more elements of the one or more audio objects based on the viewpoint of the viewer. In one instance an audio object may include various elements that may be utilized to render various renditions for example in high definition HD in stereo directional and the like based on the viewer s viewpoint the audio parameters e.g. viewer selection device capability etc. the viewer distance to a sound source e.g. virtual distance in a mapping application and the like.

In one embodiment the at least one audio object is captured substantially simultaneously at a same geo location or a combination thereof as the at least one content item. In various embodiments the one or more audio objects may be captured recorded by a user and or a service provider at a same time and or at a same location as the one or more content items. For example a user and or a service provider may capture an image or a video of a POI at a certain geo location wherein one or more audio objects e.g. sound recordings may also be captured at the same time and same location. In one embodiment the one or more audio objects may be captured before and or after a content item is captured for example to provide sound around the time the content item was captured.

In one embodiment the system processes the at least one audio object for manipulating the one or more elements of the at least one audio object. In one embodiment a processing platform may process and or manipulate the one or more audio objects and or their one or more elements. In one instance an audio object may have various elements for HD sounds stereo music speech nature sounds and the like wherein various applications user preferences device capabilities and the like may require and or suggest manipulation of the elements of the audio objects. For example a user may wish to amplify fadeout mix etc. certain elements of an audio object for different effects for clarity different experience and the like. In one embodiment one or more audio objects and or one or more elements of the one or more audio objects may be presented in a loopback mode e.g. for continues playing .

In one embodiment the system processes the at least one content item for determining at least one physical object at least one audio source associated with the at least one audio object metadata associated with the at least one content item or a combination thereof. In various embodiments a processing platform may utilize one or more algorithms processes applications etc. to process one or more content items e.g. an image a video segment etc. for determining one or more physical objects e.g. a car a statue a person a dog a street sign etc. one or more potential audio sources e.g. a dog a car a bird a person rain etc. metadata associated with the one or more content items e.g. location information a POI date time etc. and the like. For example a content item may include one or more images of one or more objects things which may be detected recognized by utilizing one or more applications e.g. image detection face detection object detection etc. 

In one embodiment the system determines one or more other audio objects based at least in part on the at least one physical object the at least one audio source the metadata or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a processing platform a content provider and the like may retrieve request and or provide one or more audio objects which may be associated with the at least one physical object for example sounds near a building in a shopping mall at a POI etc. In one embodiment the one or more audio objects may be associated with one or more audio sources for example a car sirens on an ambulance a motorcycle people birds pedestrian traffic etc. Further the one or more audio objects may be determined from metadata associated with a content item for example a given shopping district at a given time of day during a shopping day a certain seaside caf e.g. sounds of seagulls boats waves music etc. 

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a synthesis of one or more segments of the at least one audio object the one or more elements or a combination thereof. In one embodiment one or more segments of one or more audio object and or one or more elements may be synthesized e.g. electronically produced which may be based on one or more available audio objects and or elements one or more audio sources one or more content items one or more geo locations one or more POIs and the like. For example a content item includes an image of a motorcycle speeding through a street with tall buildings wherein a synthesizer on a device at a content provider and the like may synthesize sound of a motorcycle substantially close to possible sounds e.g. exhaust engine wheels etc. for the motorcycle recognized in the image e.g. type model etc. with possible effects elements due to the pavement echo from nearby buildings and the like.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more privacy policies one or more security policies one or more viewer preferences or a combination thereof associated with the at least one content item the at least one audio object or a combination thereof. In various embodiments a processing platform a content provider an application and the like may determine one or more privacy policies security policies user preferences and the like which may be associated with a content item and or an audio object. For example an image may depict a person speaking e.g. facial expression gestures open mouth etc. at an audible distance e.g. 3 feet away privacy security consideration . In one example an image depicts a concert hall a music store and the like where copyright content may be present e.g. music playing . In one embodiment a device may include viewer preferences and or the viewer may utilize a UI to indicate certain preferences associated with a content item and or an audio object e.g. associated with the content item . In various embodiments processing analysis of one or more elements of one or more audio objects e.g. audio analysis may indicate one or more privacy security policies e.g. intelligible speech music etc. potential user preferences e.g. for noisy audio objects for too many overlapping audio objects elements for music etc. 

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a recomposition of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the one or more privacy policies the one or more security policies the one or more viewer preferences or a combination thereof. In various embodiments a processing platform a content provider and the like may recompose one or more audio objects and or one or more elements based on the one or more privacy security policies viewer preferences device capabilities and the like. For example an audio object and or its elements may be recomposed e.g. altered manipulated etc. so that an intelligible speech becomes substantially un intelligible e.g. considering privacy issues a music recording becomes very short e.g. considering copyright issues . In one example one or more audio objects and their elements are recomposed according to viewer preferences for example by including excluding changing direction adding special effects and the like to the one or more audio objects and or to their elements.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more points of interest associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. In one embodiment one or more POIs e.g. a shopping mall a restaurant a coffee shop a food mart a museum etc. may be determined for example from a content item e.g. an image of a city center from geo location information associated with a content item and or a user e.g. device metadata associated with a content item and or an audio object.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a rendering of one or more aural messages associated with the one or more points of interest the geo location or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a content provider a service provider and the like may present one or more audio objects which include one or more aural messages e.g. sales products services information coupons advertisement etc. associated with one or more POIs e.g. a coffee shop a shopping mall a restaurant etc. For example the audio objects may include information based on the location user preferences time of day day of week and the like.

In one embodiment the system processes the at least one audio object for determining at least one physical object at least one geo location at least one point of interest or a combination thereof associated with the at least one audio object. In one embodiment a processing platform may analyze one or more audio objects and or their elements for determining a physical object e.g. a car an audio source that may be associated with the one or more audio objects and or their elements. In one embodiment the processing platform may also determine one or more geo locations and or POIs associated with the one or more audio objects and or their elements. For example one or more audio objects may be associated with a certain shopping mall e.g. indoor outdoor wherein the audio objects may be associated with different times of a day days of a week at a particular distance from an audio source and or may be various audio objects collected by various users and or content service providers. In one instance multiple users may have collected audio objects e.g. sound recordings which may be aggregated by one or more content service providers. In one example an audio object may be associated with a particular POI at a particular geo location e.g. Eiffel Tower Paris or a particular POI e.g. a seaside marina available at various geo locations and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of a user interface for determining one or more user interactions. In various embodiments a UI application with various elements may be presented to a user viewer whereby the user may indicate various user preferences for example in viewing content items and or in consuming one or more audio objects and their elements.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part at least one modification to the at least one audio object based at least in part on the one or more user interactions. In one various embodiments a user may select different vantage points e.g. different angles different positions for viewing various content items in a map view and or for hearing various associated audio objects and their elements under different conditions e.g. daytime night time rush hour lunch time weekends etc. and or with certain effects e.g. stereo loop fadeout aural messages etc. 

In one embodiment the system cause at least in part a capturing of the one or more elements of the at least one audio object via a plurality of devices. In various embodiments one or more devices e.g. capable of recording audio multimedia etc. may be utilized for capturing one or more audio objects and or one or more elements of one or more audio objects. For example a user and or a service provider may utilize one or more devices with one or more microphones e.g. directional at different orientations with different sensitivities etc. for recording various sound recordings wherein each device and or element may record various audio objects and or elements. In one embodiment a plurality of microphones may be on one device e.g. with spatial separation for example a mobile phone a car a camera etc.

In one embodiment the system cause at least in part an aggregation of the one or more elements for rendering one or more variations of the at least one audio object. In various embodiments a plurality of audio objects and or elements may be aggregated and rendered as one or more audio objects and or one or more elements of one or more audio objects wherein the aggregation may be performed by a user device by a content service provider and the like. In one embodiment one or more elements of one or more audio objects may be aggregated to render one or more different audio objects than originally intended for.

As discussed above the system may provide various benefits and advantages to the users utilizing the methods of the system . For example the system at least provides an efficient mechanism for capturing associating and consuming audio objects related to contents and geo locations. Further the system provides easy but yet efficient methods for users to request receive and consume additional content items e.g. audio objects aural messages etc. via different applications on a device while requesting receiving and consuming other types of content items e.g. images map data location based content etc. Example benefits of the system include differentiation in applications e.g. maps multimedia etc. and services which may utilize the methods of the system by adding sound ambience to other contents e.g. images at different geo locations POIs indoors outdoors and to various maps of the same locations. Further the system would allow users to explore and discover locations through how they sound. Additionally storage requirements for adding the audio objects are relatively small compared to visual content items. Furthermore privacy security and rights management issues would be resolved as the sound played is in short segments wherein original speech sentences and or music may not be reconstructed. Moreover a user may search for similarly sounding locations by utilizing the audio objects with or without information of other content items e.g. images .

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including social networking web browser multimedia applications user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers a processing platform one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include data content collection modules also collectively referred to as DC collection module for determining and or collecting data and or content associated with the UEs one or more users of the UEs applications one or more content items e.g. multimedia content and the like. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system .

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like. In various embodiments the content providers may sort manage store and or make the content items available based on various parameters for example geo location information e.g. of a submitter of a content item of a requestor of a POI etc. sequential order content type e.g. audio video still images etc. date time of content creation and or submission date time of a content request and the like. In various embodiments the content may include media items maps metadata e.g. geo location information content type content creator etc. associated with the content items various POIs and the like.

In one embodiment the processing platform may include and or have access to a database to access and or store information associated with the users content UEs media media recognition models and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may obtain content e.g. media content POI information etc. from the content providers and then offer the content to the UE to the processing platform and or to one or more other services or entities of the system . It is noted that the processing platform may be a stand alone entity in the system a part of the service providers a part of the content providers included within the UE e.g. as part of the applications or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the processing platform may include one or more software hardware firmware algorithms and the like modules for processing content items for example audio video images text etc. In one embodiment the processing platform may process analyze detect aggregate and the like audio objects e.g. sound recordings and elements of the audio objects for example for rendering various audio objects fine tune manipulate synthesize create ambient soundtracks synchronize improvise add sound effects and the like. In one embodiment the processing platform may process metadata associated with a content item for determining information associated with the content item for example geo location sound source user information user preferences user device capabilities audio characteristics and the like. In various embodiments the processing platform may include sound editing functions include cut copy paste delete insert silence auto trim and the like. Further audio effects including amplify normalize equalizer envelope reverb echo reverse etc. Furthermore capabilities include support for audio and music file formats including mp3 way wma au aac m4a mid and the like. Additionally tools and applications to apply effects and or convert multiple audio objects into fewer audio objects search and bookmark audio for editing and aggregating e.g. create bookmarks and index by POIs geo locations regions and the like to easily find recall and assemble element of longer audio files recordings. The tools may also include spectral analysis FFT speech synthesis text to speech noise reduction sampling rate and the like.

In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like. In certain embodiments the processing platform is implemented as a collection of one or more hardware software algorithms firmware or combinations thereof that can be integrated for use with the service providers and or with the content providers . In various embodiments the processing platform can be maintained on a network server while operating in connection with the service providers and or with the content providers as an extensible feature a web service an applet a script an object oriented application or the like to enable processing analyzing detecting and the like of content items e.g. audio video image text etc. metadata and the like. Further the processing platform the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users and services content POIs etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

By way of example the UEs the service providers the content providers and the processing platform may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs and the processing platform may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

The control logic oversees tasks including tasks performed by the communication module the analyzer module the synthesis module and the storage module . For example although other modules may perform the actual task the control logic may determine when and how those tasks are performed or otherwise direct the other modules to perform the tasks.

The communication module is used for communication between the UEs the service providers the content providers and other entities of the system . The communication module may also be used to render the content items e.g. audio objects images mapping elements etc. The content items may be rendered in connection with a mapping module which accesses data for representing location of the various content items to a map. The communication module in connection with the storage module also may be used to cause one or more associations of the stored shared or a combination thereof content items e.g. audio objects . As such various content items may be rendered to a user via the applications for selection review or addition to a library. The communication module may also be used in connection with the analyzer module to retrieve content items in response to a search command based on geo location coordinates determined by the analyzer module by a service provider from metadata associated with a content item and the like.

The analyzer module may be used to determine the GPS coordinates of the location within a mapping application associated with a content item. In addition the analyzer module may interpret search commands for specific content item e.g. location search audio search POI search etc. Still further the analyzer module may analyze an audio object for determining associated possible sound source geo location object POI.

The synthesis module is used to mix match create amend loop and the like audio objects and or associated elements for composition recomposition purposes. The synthesis module may also operate in connection with the applications e.g. media player to enable generation of playlists. In certain embodiments the synthesis module operates in connection with the communication module to enable retrieval of commercial media compositions and composed media selections to be displayed to users via the applications . It is contemplated that the synthesis module may mix the media items based at least in part on one or more time scale modification one or more beat matching one or more tempo matching one or more rhythm matching or a combination thereof processes. By way of example the synthesis module in connection with the synthesis module may mix the media items based on beat and downbeat analysis methods such that the drum loop is 1 time stretched to make the drum loop tempo match the tempo of the active first media item and 2 the first beat of each measure of the drum loop is matched to the downbeats of the first media item.

The storage module is used to manage the storage of the one or more stored shared or a combination thereof content items e.g. audio objects images mapping elements etc. associated and or stored on the UEs at the database or at various elements of the system for example content items at the content providers at a mapping database and the like.

The mapping module may utilize metadata associated with an audio object and or content items to determine location information associated with the audio object and or the content items for indicating their location in a mapping application. Further the location information may be utilized and or communicated to other applications and or to other entities of the system so the audio objects and the content items may be presented to a user via a mapping and or other applications on a device. In one embodiment the mapping module may also utilize location information of audio objects and other content items e.g. an image for associating the audio objects and other content items together wherein the association information may be stored and or shared with other applications and or entities of the system .

The aggregation module the analyzer module may utilize one or more applications and or algorithms for aggregating e.g. integrating combining etc. a plurality of audio objects and or a plurality of elements of the audio objects for providing a plurality of aggregated audio objects where the aggregated audio objects may include various audio objects and or elements of the audio objects. For example a plurality of the audio objects and their elements may be combined into different versions of audio objects with different effects which may be according to one or more user preferences content service provider criteria and the like. In one embodiment the aggregation module may facilitate an application user interface API for facilitating execution of one or more applications and or algorithms via one or more content service providers one or more other entities e.g. third party of the system and the like.

In step the processing platform determines a viewpoint of a viewer of at least one content item associated with a geo location. In one embodiment the processing platform determines a viewer s user s perspective e.g. virtual location viewing angle etc. with reference to a geo location when the user is viewing a content item in the application for example via data from global positioning system GPS compass gyroscope and the like associated with a user device. In one use case a user may utilize a mapping application on a device e.g. a tablet to view one or more content items e.g. images drawings map objects etc. presented via the mapping application and or overlaid onto the mapping application e.g. media items included in a presentation of a map wherein the content items may be renderings of various 2D 3D AR VR and the like representations and or images of objects e.g. buildings people cars birds motorcycles etc. associated with a given geo location e.g. a city center . In various embodiments the viewpoint may be determined by an application may be selected by a user by a service provider and the like. For example a user may utilize a user interface UI to select a viewpoint in a map which may indicate a virtual geo location in the map e.g. the viewer standing at a corner of an intersection at a given city center . In one embodiment the viewpoint may be determined from current and or previous location information associated with a user for example GPS information in a user device. In one embodiment the one or more content items may be captured and or provided by an application a user a content provider a service provider or a combination thereof for example based on location information by the user.

In step the processing platform determines at least one audio object associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the processing platform may provide retrieve and or capture one or more audio objects for association with a content item an object a geo location and the like. In one instance a service provider may determine from a content item e.g. a picture the geo location information of a POI e.g. a certain city park that is being viewed by a user via an application e.g. a mapping application and may provide cause a retrieval of one or more audio objects associated with the POI and or the surrounding area within an audible distance. For example the geo location of the POI may be associated with audio objects including sounds from a nearby water fountain a bird sanctuary pedestrian traffic and the like. In one embodiment the user may provide the one or more audio objects e.g. from a personal recording from a storage device etc. 

In step the processing platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one audio object for rendering one or more elements of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the viewpoint. In one embodiment a processing platform e.g. via a service provider a content provider a user device etc. may process the one or more audio objects for determining one or more elements of the one or more audio objects based on the viewpoint of the viewer. In one instance an audio object may include various elements that may be utilized to render various renditions for example in high definition HD in stereo directional and the like based on the viewer s viewpoint the audio parameters e.g. viewer selection device capability etc. the viewer distance to a sound source e.g. virtual distance in a mapping application and the like. In one embodiment the at least one audio object is captured substantially simultaneously at a same geo location or a combination thereof as the at least one content item. In various embodiments the one or more audio objects may be captured recorded by a user and or a service provider at a same time and or at a same location as the one or more content items. For example a user and or a service provider may capture an image or a video of a POI at a certain geo location wherein one or more audio objects e.g. sound recordings may also be captured at the same time and same location. In one embodiment the one or more audio objects may be captured before and or after a content item is captured for example to provide sound around the time the content item was captured.

In step the processing platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one audio object for manipulating the one or more elements of the at least one audio object. In one embodiment the processing platform may process and or manipulate the one or more audio objects and or their one or more elements. In one instance an audio object may have various elements for HD sounds stereo music speech nature sounds and the like wherein various applications user preferences device capabilities and the like may require and or suggest manipulation of the elements of the audio objects. For example a user may wish to amplify fadeout mix etc. certain elements of an audio object for different effects for clarity different experience and the like. In one embodiment one or more audio objects and or one or more elements of the one or more audio objects may be presented in a loopback mode e.g. for continues playing .

In step the processing platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one content item for determining at least one physical object at least one audio source associated with the at least one audio object metadata associated with the at least one content item or a combination thereof. In various embodiments a processing platform may utilize one or more algorithms processes applications etc. to process one or more content items e.g. an image a video segment etc. for determining one or more physical objects e.g. a car a statue a person a dog a street sign etc. one or more potential audio sources e.g. a dog a car a bird a person rain etc. metadata associated with the one or more content items e.g. location information a POI date time etc. and the like. For example a content item may include one or more images of one or more objects things which may be detected recognized by utilizing one or more applications e.g. image detection face detection object detection etc. 

In step the processing platform determines one or more other audio objects based at least in part on the at least one physical object the at least one audio source the metadata or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a processing platform a content provider and the like may retrieve request and or provide one or more audio objects which may be associated with the at least one physical object for example sounds near a building in a shopping mall at a POI etc. In one embodiment the one or more audio objects may be associated with one or more audio sources for example a car sirens on an ambulance a motorcycle people birds pedestrian traffic etc. Further the one or more audio objects may be determined from metadata associated with a content item for example a given shopping district at a given time of day during a shopping day a certain seaside caf e.g. sounds of seagulls boats waves music etc. 

In step the processing platform causes at least in part a synthesis of one or more segments of the at least one audio object the one or more elements or a combination thereof. In one embodiment one or more segments of one or more audio object and or one or more elements may be synthesized e.g. electronically produced which may be based on one or more available audio objects and or elements one or more audio sources one or more content items one or more geo locations one or more POIs and the like. For example a content item includes an image of a motorcycle speeding through a street with tall buildings wherein a synthesizer on a device at a content provider and the like may synthesize sound of a motorcycle substantially close to possible sounds e.g. exhaust engine wheels etc. for the motorcycle recognized in the image e.g. type model etc. with possible effects elements due to the pavement echo from nearby buildings and the like.

In step the processing platform determines one or more privacy policies one or more security policies one or more viewer preferences or a combination thereof associated with the at least one content item the at least one audio object or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the processing platform may determine one or more privacy policies security policies user preferences and the like which may be associated with a content item and or an audio object. For example an image may depict a person speaking e.g. facial expression gestures open mouth etc. at an audible distance e.g. 3 feet away privacy security consideration . In one example an image depicts a concert hall a music store and the like where copyright content may be present e.g. music playing . In one embodiment a device may include viewer preferences and or the viewer may utilize a UI to indicate certain preferences associated with a content item and or an audio object e.g. associated with the content item . In various embodiments processing analysis of one or more elements of one or more audio objects e.g. audio analysis may indicate one or more privacy security policies e.g. intelligible speech music etc. potential user preferences e.g. for noisy audio objects for too many overlapping audio objects elements for music etc. 

In step the processing platform causes at least in part a recomposition of the at least one audio object based at least in part on the one or more privacy policies the one or more security policies the one or more viewer preferences or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the processing platform a content provider and the like may recompose one or more audio objects and or one or more elements based on the one or more privacy security policies viewer preferences device capabilities and the like. For example an audio object and or its elements may be recomposed e.g. altered manipulated etc. so that an intelligible speech becomes substantially un intelligible e.g. considering privacy issues a music recording becomes very short e.g. considering copyright issues . In one example one or more audio objects and their elements are recomposed according to viewer preferences for example by including excluding changing direction adding special effects and the like to the one or more audio objects and or to their elements.

In step the processing platform determines one or more points of interest associated with the at least one content item the geo location or a combination thereof. In one embodiment one or more POIs e.g. a shopping mall a restaurant a coffee shop a food mart a museum etc. may be determined for example from a content item e.g. an image of a city center from geo location information associated with a content item and or a user e.g. device metadata associated with a content item and or an audio object.

In step the processing platform causes at least in part a rendering of one or more aural messages associated with the one or more points of interest the geo location or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the content providers the service providers and the like may present one or more audio objects which include one or more aural messages e.g. sales products services information coupons advertisement etc. associated with one or more POIs e.g. a coffee shop a shopping mall a restaurant etc. For example the audio objects may include information based on the location user preferences time of day day of week and the like.

In step the processing platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one audio object for determining at least one physical object at least one geo location at least one point of interest or a combination thereof associated with the at least one audio object. In one embodiment the processing platform may analyze one or more audio objects and or their elements for determining a physical object e.g. a car an audio source that may be associated with the one or more audio objects and or their elements. In one embodiment the processing platform may also determine one or more geo locations and or POIs associated with the one or more audio objects and or their elements. For example one or more audio objects may be associated with a certain shopping mall e.g. indoor outdoor wherein the audio objects may be associated with different times of a day days of a week at a particular distance from an audio source and or may be various audio objects collected by various users and or content service providers. In one instance multiple users may have collected audio objects e.g. sound recordings which may be aggregated by one or more content service providers. In one example an audio object may be associated with a particular POI at a particular geo location e.g. Eiffel Tower Paris or a particular POI e.g. a seaside marina available at various geo locations and the like.

In step the processing platform causes at least in part a presentation of a user interface for determining one or more user interactions. In various embodiments a UI application with various elements may be presented to a user viewer whereby the user may indicate various user preferences for example in viewing content items and or in consuming one or more audio objects and their elements.

In step the processing platform causes at least in part at least one modification to the at least one audio object based at least in part on the one or more user interactions. In one various embodiments a user may select different vantage points e.g. different angles different positions for viewing various content items in a map view and or for hearing various associated audio objects and their elements under different conditions e.g. daytime night time rush hour lunch time weekends etc. and or with certain effects e.g. stereo loop fadeout aural messages etc. 

In step the processing platform cause at least in part a capturing of the one or more elements of the at least one audio object via a plurality of devices. In various embodiments one or more devices e.g. capable of recording audio multimedia etc. may be utilized for capturing one or more audio objects and or one or more elements of one or more audio objects. For example a user and or a service provider may utilize one or more devices with one or more microphones e.g. directional at different orientations with different sensitivities etc. for recording various sound recordings wherein each device and or element may record various audio objects and or elements. In one embodiment a plurality of microphones may be on one device e.g. with spatial separation for example a mobile phone a car a camera etc.

In step the processing platform cause at least in part an aggregation of the one or more elements for rendering one or more variations of the at least one audio object. In various embodiments a plurality of audio objects and or elements may be aggregated and rendered as one or more audio objects and or one or more elements of one or more audio objects wherein the aggregation may be performed by a user device by a content service provider and the like. In one embodiment one or more elements of one or more audio objects may be aggregated to render one or more different audio objects than originally intended for.

In shows a configuration of audio objects corresponding to the audio objects and or elements in . In one embodiment the processing platform and or a UE may determine viewing direction based on for example user viewer location and directional information e.g. GPS gyroscope compass etc. along a path that may be 360 degrees and or panoramic with reference to a viewer s position viewing position an audio object s position etc. wherein the viewing direction may be among the one or more audio objects for example . In one example the user viewing direction is sufficiently in the direction of audio object so that active audio object is selected to be

The processes described herein for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to efficiently capture process present and or associate audio objects with content items and geo locations. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal for efficiently capturing processing presenting and or associating audio objects with content items and geo locations. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

