---

title: Physical layer management for an active optical module
abstract: Embodiments described herein are directed to a cable assembly including at least a first optical fiber extending from a first end to a second end and an active optical module (AOM) attached to the first end of the first optical fiber and including a first storage device that is electrically connected to the electrical connector. The cable assembly also includes a passive optical connector terminating the second end of the first optical fiber and including a second storage device. The first storage device includes an AOM identifier stored therein identifying the active optical module and the second storage device includes first information stored therein indicating that the first end of the first optical fiber is associated with the AOM identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602897&OS=09602897&RS=09602897
owner: CommScope Technologies LLC
number: 09602897
owner_city: Hickory
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151202
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 9 207 417 filed on Jun. 25 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 663 907 filed on Jun. 25 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Conventional physical layer management PLM systems are typically designed to track connections that are made at a patch panel. That is historically conventional PLM systems have been patch panel centric and have not included functionality to track connections that are made at other types of devices and systems in a network. For example such PLM systems typically do not automatically track connections that are made at a switch router hub gateway access point server computer end user computer appliance computers such as network attached storage NAS devices and nodes of a storage area network SAN or other types of devices also referred to here as host devices devices or just hosts . Although there are management systems that are used to manage and collect information about such hosts such management systems are typically separate from the PLM systems used to track connections made at a patch panel.

For some types of host devices the cabling used with such devices is different from the cabling used elsewhere in the network for example the cabling used at a patch panel . For example some host devices make use of so called active electronic cables that include an optical transceiver module attached to at least one end of a pair of optical fibers. That is the active optical module is a part of the cable assembly instead of being integrated into the host device. The active optical module includes the active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received over the fiber pair. The switch interacts with the active optical module using an electrical interface. As a result of the differences between the cabling used with such host devices and the cabling used with patch panels PLM technology used for tracking connections at a patch panel historically has not been used to track connections made at such host devices. One consequence of this is that PLM systems have typically not had access to information about connections made to such host devices.

One embodiment is directed to a cable assembly including at least a first optical fiber extending from a first end to a second end and an active optical module AOM attached to the first end of the first optical fiber and including a first storage device that is electrically connected to the electrical connector. The cable assembly also includes a passive optical connector terminating the second end of the first optical fiber and including a second storage device. The first storage device includes an AOM identifier stored therein identifying the active optical module and the second storage device includes first information stored therein indicating that the first end of the first optical fiber is associated with the AOM identifier.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific illustrative embodiments. However it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical and electrical changes may be made. Furthermore the method presented in the drawing figures and the specification is not to be construed as limiting the order in which the individual steps may be performed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In this example the physical communication media is a duplex fiber optic cable including one or more optical fibers. The one or more optical fibers can include single mode or multi mode fibers. The fiber optic cable can include a simplex cable duplex cable 12 fiber cable 24 fiber cable and other fiber optic cables such as hybrid fiber copper cables .

One example of a physical communication media suitable for use in the example shown in is shown in more detail in . The physical communication media shown in is a duplex fiber optical cable having a pair of fibers though it is to be understood that the techniques described here can be used with other types of fiber optic cables such as simplex cables and or simplex or duplex cables that implement more than one simplex or duplex optical channel .

In this example each physical communication media has an active end and a passive end . Each physical communication media includes an active optical module that is attached to the active end of that physical communication media more specifically to the active end of the fiber pair used in the physical communication media . The active optical module is attached using a non connector based connection between the fiber pair and the active optical module . For example the non connector based connection includes a permanent manufactured or semi permanent spliced connection but does not include a coupling made by mating pluggable and removable connectors for example a plug jack pair such as LC or SC connectors to one another. One consequence of the attachment between active optical module and the fiber pair being non connector based is that one can reasonably assume that in normal use the active optical module will always be used with the fiber pair and the components attached to the passive end of the fiber pair described below .

Each physical communication media also includes a passive optical connector that is attached to the passive end of the physical communication media more specifically to the passive end of the fiber pair used in the physical communication media .

Each active optical module includes an electrical connector by which transmit and receive signals are input and output in electrical form typically as respective differential signal pairs to and from the active optical module . The electrical connector also includes contact traces for power PWR and GND lines for providing power and ground to the active components in the active optical module . In the example shown in the active optical module comprises a Gigabit ETHERNET active optical module that implements one or more of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET. In this example the electrical connector is implemented as an edge type connector having contact traces for each of the lines required by the Gigabit ETHERNET standards relating to electrical Gigabit ETHERNET connectors that is TX and TX contact traces for the transmit differential signal pair and RX and RX contact traces for the receive differential signal pair . In one common application the specifications for the active optical module are not standardized by any official standards body but are specified by a multi source agreement MSA between competing manufacturers. This is also referred to here as a MSA compatible active optical module or MSA compatible transceiver . The electrical connector and the rest of the active optical module can be any suitable connector and module such as small form factor connectors and modules including MSA compatible connectors and modules such as a SFP SFP QSFP QSFP CFP and CXP conforming connectors and modules as well as other types of active optical modules for example active optical modules other than MSA compatible active optical modules .

Each active optical module includes the active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received over the fiber pair . In the example shown in the active optical module includes an optical transceiver . The optical transceiver comprises a receiver circuit that receives a first optical signal from a first one of the optical fibers and produces a first received electrical signal from the first optical signal suitable for outputting from the electrical connector . The optical transceiver further comprises a transmitter circuit that receives the electrical transmit signal from the electrical connector and outputs a second transmit optical signal for communicating over the second one of the optical fibers . As noted above in this example the received electrical signal is output on the electrical connector as a differential pair of electrical signals RX and RX that complies with one or more of the IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET. Likewise the transmit electrical signal to be transmitted on the physical communication media is supplied on the electrical connector as a differential pair of electrical signals TX and TX that complies with one or more of the IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET.

In this example each active optical module also includes a storage device also referred to here as an active end storage device . The electrical connector in each active optical module is configured to include a control interface via which the active end storage device can be accessed. In the particular example shown in the control interface implemented by the electrical connector includes one data contact trace DATA and one clock contact trace CLK over which data and clock signals are exchanged between the host device and the active end storage device in the active optical module . In an example the control interface is a serial communication interface. In some examples the active end storage device supports the I2C I squared C bus protocol where the I2C bus protocol is used for communicating over the control interface. In an example the storage device is an EEPROM however in other examples other non volatile memory can be used.

As shown in each physical communication media also includes a passive optical connector at the passive end of the active optical cable segment . One example of a passive optical connector is a duplex LC SC or MPO fiber connector. In this example each passive optical connector includes or is otherwise associated with a storage device which is also referred to here as the passive end storage device . The passive optical connector is configured to include a storage device interface via which the passive end storage device can be accessed. This storage device interface is also referred to here as the passive end storage device interface which can also be implemented by incorporating appropriate electrical contacts in the passive optical connector . In other example the physical communication media can be implemented in other ways such as a simplex cable a hybrid cable a multi channel cable etc. and the passive end is implemented in a manner suitable for that type of cable for example using a simplex connector a hybrid cable connector or a multi channel cable connector .

Various examples of passive end storage device interfaces are described in United States Patent Publication No. US 2011 0116748 filed Oct. 15 2010 and titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 841 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled MANAGED FIBER CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In some of these examples a four line storage device interface is used where the interface includes a single data line for reading and writing data a power line for providing power to the storage device a ground line for providing a ground level and an extra line reserved for future use. Also in these examples a storage device that supports the UNI O bus protocol is used where the UNI O bus protocol is used for communicating over the single data lead. One example of such a storage device and interface are the storage devices and interfaces used in the QUAREO family of physical layer management products that are commercially available from TE Connectivity.

In the example shown in the system is described here as including two host devices that are implemented as Gigabit ETHERNET switches though the system can include one or more than two switches and or different types of host devices . Consequently the two host devices shown in are also referred to here as switches . Examples of other types of host devices that can be used include without limitation routers gateways access points server computers end user computers appliance computers such as network attached storage NAS devices and nodes of a storage area network SAN . Also in the example shown in the system includes two passive optical interconnects that are implemented as two fiber patch panels though the system can include a different number of fiber patch panels including a system without patch panels and or different types of passive optical interconnects . Consequently the two passive optical interconnects shown in are also referred to here as fiber patch panels . Examples of other types of passive optical interconnects that can be used include without limitation other types of optical patch panels fiber distribution hubs FDH fiber splice panels fiber trays and fiber termination points. Examples of active optical modules and physical communication media include without limitation GIGABIT ETHERNET FIBRE CHANNEL INFINIBAND Serial Attached SCSI SAS and SONET SDH.

Many types of host devices and passive optical interconnects include multiple ports though the techniques described here are not limited to host devices or passive optical interconnects that include multiple ports.

In the example shown in a first active optical module of a first physical communication media is attached to a first port of a first one of the two switches . A second active optical module of a second physical communication media is attached to a second port of a second one of the two switches . In the example shown in each of the ports of the switches are configured to include a control interface not separately shown . The control interface in the ports is configured to mate and inter operate with the control interface used in the electrical connectors attached to each of the active optical modules . Software executing on a programmable processor such as a controller associated with each switch is able to read and write data to the active end storage device included in each active optical module that is attached to a given port using that port s control interface. The software and programmable processor are implemented in a conventional manner except as described here.

In the example shown in the passive optical connector at the passive end of the first active optical cable segment is connected to a duplex port of one of the two fiber patch panels . This fiber patch panel is also referred to here as the first patch panel and the port to which the first physical communication media is connected is also referred to here as the first patch panel port . The passive optical connector at the passive end of the second physical communication media is connected to a duplex port of the second of the two fiber patch panels . This fiber patch panel is also referred to here as the second patch panel and the port to which the second active optical cable segment is connected is also referred to here as the second patch panel port .

In the example shown in each of the patch panel ports of the fiber patch panels is configured to include a storage device interface not separately shown . The storage device interface in each port is configured to mate and inter operate with the storage device interface used in the passive optical connector attached to the passive end of a given active optical cable segment . Software executing on a programmable processor such as a controller associated with the fiber patch panel is able to read and write data from and to the passive end storage device associated with any passive optical connector that is connected to a given port using that port s storage device interface. The software and programmable processor can be implemented in the manner described in the US provisional patent applications and US non provisional patent applications cited herein. One example of such a storage device and interface are the storage devices and interfaces used in the QUAREO family of physical layer management products that are commercially available from TE Connectivity.

In the example shown in each patch panel port in the first fiber patch panel is communicatively coupled to a respective patch panel port in the second fiber patch panel via an optical trunk cable . The optical trunk cable is a multiple fiber cable where each duplex port of each of the fiber patch panels is connected to a respective pair of fibers in the trunk cable . The trunk cable includes a multi fiber connector for example a suitable MPO or MTP connector at each end of the cable . Each fiber patch panel includes a trunk connector for example a suitable MPO or MTP connector designed to be connected to the multi fiber connector attached to the trunk cable .

In this example each multi fiber connector attached to the optical trunk cable also includes or is otherwise associated with a respective storage device and the connectors and include or are otherwise associated with a respective storage device interface not shown by which the software running on each fiber patch panel can read and write data to the storage device . The storage devices that are included in or otherwise associated with the multi fiber connectors attached to the trunk cable are also referred to here as the trunk cable storage devices . The storage device interface can implemented as described in the manner described in the US provisional patent applications and US non provisional patent applications cited herein.

In other implementations the trunk cable plugged into the first patch panel is different from the trunk cable plugged into the second patch panel . In some implementations the two trunk cables may be connected at a third patch panel. In other implementations the two trunk cables may be connected using a panel network of multiple patch panels and trunk cables. In still other implementations multiple trunk cables may extend between the first and second patch panels . For example in some implementations multiple single optical fiber cables may extend between the patch panels or panel network. In other implementations multiple multi fiber cables may extend between the patch panels or panel network.

Non limiting examples of patch panels suitable for use as panels are shown and disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 and United States Publication No. US 2011 0116748 which were incorporated by reference above. Other non limiting examples of patch panels suitable for use as panels are shown and disclosed in United States Publication No. US 2011 0115494 A1 filed Oct. 19 2010 and titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS U.S. application Ser. No. 12 905 689 filed Oct. 15 2010 and titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 466 696 filed Mar. 23 2011 and titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 476 041 filed Apr. 15 2011 and titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In the example shown in the system further comprises an aggregation point . The aggregation point switches and fiber patch panels communicate with one another over a network . The aggregation point is typically implemented as software that runs on a computer that is coupled to the network . The computer on which the aggregation point is implemented includes an appropriate network interface to communicatively couple the computer to the network . In the example shown in the programmable processors and in the switches and fiber patch panels respectively are communicatively coupled to the network by including a respective management or non service port that is separate from the service ports and . However one or more of the programmable processors and in the switches and fiber patch panels respectively can be communicatively coupled to the network using one or more of the service ports and . In an example the switches can communicate with the aggregation point using a suitable communication protocol such as the Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP .

In one embodiment the network comprises an INTERNET PROTOCOL network. The network can be implemented using one or more of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the INTERNET a virtual local area network VLAN and a virtual private network VPN an enterprise network and a telecommunication service provider network. Moreover the switches and fiber patch panels can be a part of the equipment used to implement the network .

The aggregation point is configured to receive physical layer information pertaining to various devices and media used to implement the physical layer in the network not just the physical communication media . The physical layer information PLI includes information about various devices in the network for example information about the switches and fiber patch panels also referred to here as device information as well as information about any physical communication media attached to the ports of those devices also referred to here as media information . The device information includes for example an identifier for each device a type identifier that identifies the device s type and port information that includes information about the device s ports. The media information includes information that is read from storage devices that are attached to various physical communication media for example from the passive end storage devices that are attached to the physical communication media and the optical trunk cables .

Examples of media information that can be stored in such storage devices include without limitation a cable identifier that uniquely identifies that particular physical communication media similar to an ETHERNET Media Access Control MAC address but associated with the physical communication media e.g. a serial number for the physical communication media as well as attribute information such as a part number a plug or other connector type a cable or fiber type and length a cable polarity a date of manufacture a manufacturing lot number information about one or more visual attributes of physical communication media or a connector attached to the physical communication media such as information about the color or shape of the physical communication media or connector or an image of the physical communication media or connector and other information used by an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system or inventory control system. In other embodiments alternate or additional data is stored in such storage devices as media information. For example the media information can include testing media quality or performance information stored in such storage devices. The testing media quality or performance information for example can be the results of testing that is performed when a particular physical communication media is manufactured or installed.

The physical layer information can also include information about physical communication media that does not have any storage devices attached to it. This latter type of physical layer information can be manually supplied to the aggregation point .

The aggregation point includes a database or other data store not shown for storing the physical layer information provided to it. The aggregation point also includes functionality that provides an interface for external devices or entities to access the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point . This access can include retrieving information from the aggregation point as well as supplying information to the aggregation point . In this example the aggregation point is implemented as middleware that is able to provide such external devices and entities with transparent and convenient access to the PLI maintained by the aggregation point . Because the aggregation point aggregates PLI from the relevant devices in the network and provides external devices and entities with access to such PLI the external devices and entities do not need to individually interact with all of the devices in the network that provide PLI nor do such devices need to have the capacity to respond to requests from such external devices and entities.

The aggregation point in this example implements an application programming interface API by which application layer functionality can gain access to the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point using a software development kit SDK that describes and documents the API.

The aggregation point can aggregate the PLI from the devices and physical communication media to associate ports of devices e.g. patch panels with physical communication media. For example the PLI can be used to associate a given port of a device with a given physical communication media and or a particular connector of the physical communication media. Aggregating the PLI can include aggregating multiple such associations to determine physical layer connections between devices.

More information about physical layer information and the aggregation point can be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In Example 1 information that is specifically intended for use by the aggregation point or more generally a PLM system is not stored in a storage device included in the active end of the physical communication media . In Example 1 the active end does include the active end storage device but the active end storage device does not have stored therein information specifically intended for use by the aggregation point or more generally a PLM system . That is the active end storage device includes information that is intended for purposes other than use by an aggregation point or more generally a PLM system . In an implementation of this example the active end storage device includes information pertaining to the active optical module of which the active end storage device is a part. This information is referred to herein as active optical module AOM information. The AOM information is information intended for use by the host device or a management system that is used to manage the host device . Typically the AOM information is information that is prescribed by a manufacturer of the host device. The AOM information can be provided in compliance with an applicable standard or other agreement.

An example use of AOM information is for authenticating the active optical module to the host device . Many types of host devices require any active optical modules to be authenticated before the ports can be enabled for use with those active optical modules . The authentication could also be performed by a device other than host device . The AOM information can include an AOM identifier for example a serial number that uniquely identifies the active optical module of which the corresponding active end storage device is a part. The AOM information can also include attribute information such as a speed of cable for example 10 Gigabit 25 Gigabit etc. and a communication protocol s for which the active optical module was designed. As used herein PLM information refers to information that is specifically intended for use by the aggregation point or more generally a PLM system whereas AOM information refers to information that is intended for purposes other than use by an aggregation point or more generally a PLM system . The host device can also include other information such as a connection table routing table media access control MAC addresses of other device host MAC address host identifier that the host is provided with or learns from other devices such as through a spanning tree protocol. This other information is also referred to herein as other host information .

As mentioned above the host device is configured to access the active end storage device through the control interface to obtain the AOM information stored therein. After accessing the active end storage device the host device can store some or all of the AOM information on a local storage device or memory on the host device . In an implementation of this example the AOM information can be stored in a MIB by an SNMP agent running on the host device . The AOM information stored in the MIB can include the AOM identifier discussed above.

In this Example 1 the aggregation point is configured to obtain the AOM identifier and or other AOM information obtained by the host device . In an implementation of this example the aggregation point is configured to obtain the AOM information and or other host information by sending a Layer 2 request or other request for example SNMP to the host device for example the SNMP agent running thereon requesting that the host device send the AOM information or the entire contents of the MIB and or the other host information to the aggregation point . In another implementation instead of interacting directly with the host device the aggregation point interacts with another entity in the system for example a management system that is used to manage the host device that has already obtained such information from the host device either directly or via another source . In such an alternative implementation the aggregation point can be configured to use an API implemented by the other entity to obtain the AOM information for the host device . Typically this information will include port numbers or other identifiers for the respective ports in which the various active optical modules corresponding to the AOM information and or other host information are connected. In an implementation of this example the port number can be obtained by the same or a different request from the aggregation point or using the API behind the software managing the host device as described above.

The aggregation point can be configured to itself discover any changes in the state of the ports at each host device . This can be done by configuring the aggregation point to periodically or as manually instructed obtain the AOM information and its associated port for each host device and to compare the current state of the ports of the host device with a previous state of those ports. Also where each host device includes pre existing functionality for reporting changes in the state of its ports for example using SNMP traps the aggregation point can be configured to use such functionality to detect changes in state of the ports . Typically the aggregation point will be configured to use a combination of such approaches for determining the state of the ports of the host device .

The aggregation point can use the AOM information for example the AOM identifier and or the other information for example the port number to associate the corresponding active optical module or more generally the AOM information with the port to which the active optical module is connected or more generally the other host information .

Since the active optical module is a part of the same cable assembly as the passive optical connector and both are attached using a non connectorized connection as discussed above one can rely on the fact the active optical module cannot be easily disconnected from the corresponding passive optical connector . Accordingly the passive end storage device can have information also referred to herein as AOM other end information stored therein that uniquely identifies the active optical module on the other end active end of the cable assembly of which the passive end storage device is a part. Since this AOM other end information is intended for use by the aggregation point the AOM other end information is PLM information in the passive end storage device . In an implementation of this example this AOM other end information includes the AOM identifier stored in the active end storage device discussed above for purposes other than use by the aggregation point or more generally a PLM system . The AOM other end information can be stored in the passive end storage device at the time of manufacture of the physical communication media and or at a time in which the AOM information is stored e.g. burned in the active end storage device .

The AOM other end information can be accessed by the processor in the patch panel to which the passive optical connector is connected and provided to the aggregation point . The aggregation point can use the AOM other end information to associate the passive optical connector on one end the passive end of the physical communication media with the active optical module on the other end the active end of the physical communication media . More generally the aggregation point can use the AOM other end information to associate the PLM information in the passive optical connector with the AOM information and or other host information from the host device . By aggregating the association between the passive optical connector and the active optical module with the association between the active optical module and its corresponding port of the host device and with the association between the passive fiber optical connector and its corresponding port of the patch panel the aggregation point can determine the physical layer connection from the particular port of the patch panel to the particular port of the host device .

If the active optical module is disconnected from a port of the host device and re connected to a different port of the host device the host device re obtains the AOM information from the active end storage device for example as part of an authentication process . The aggregation point will learn of these changes in the state of the ports of the host device using the state discovery techniques described above. In response to the state changes the aggregation point can obtain the new AOM information and or other host information as well as its corresponding port number and associate the two as described above. This association would include de associating the AOM information with the former port number.

Advantageously the systems and methods described Example 1 can be used to determine physical layer connections from a given port of a passive optical device for example patch panel to a port of a host device without any modifications to the host device or to the active optical module that connects to the host device that its legacy host devices and active optical modules can be used . This is because no new information is required to be stored in the active end storage device . Instead the AOM other end information in the passive end storage device is used to associate the passive end storage device with the active optical module on the other end of the physical communication media . Additionally the AOM information corresponding to the active optical module can be obtained using processes that are already in place on the host device such as Layer 2 requests. The host devices are also already programmed to obtain the AOM information from the active end storage device for for example authentication purposes.

In Example 2 the physical communication media includes the same components for example hardware interfaces as in Example 1. In this second example however PLM information that is information that is specifically intended for use by the aggregation point or more generally a PLM system is stored in the active end storage device in addition to the AOM information discussed in Example 1 that is in addition to information that is intended for purposes other than use by an aggregation point or more generally a PLM system . The PLM information can include a cable identifier encoded in a format that is otherwise used by the aggregation point .

The PLM information can be stored in the active end storage device at the same time as the AOM information such as during manufacturing of physical communication media . The PLM information stored in the active end storage device is stored in memory locations of the active end storage device that are not being used for AOM information. In one implementation of this example the PLM information is stored in a location that in addition to not being currently used for AOM information is unlikely to be written over with AOM information by a host device .

For example the information in the active end storage device is typically organized into a plurality of fields. The fields typically include fields that are required by the relevant MSA also referred to here as required fields and fields that are not required by the relevant MSA also referred to here as user defined fields . In one implementation of this example the PLM information is stored in one or more of the user defined fields. For example the manufacturer of the physical communication media can define one or more of the user defined fields as including various PLM information. A first user defined field can be defined as including a cable identifier as discussed above and the particular cable identifier for the associated cable is accordingly stored in this first user defined field.

In other implementations PLM information is included with AOM information in one or more of the required fields. For example if the AOM information stored in a required field does not use all the memory space allocated to that field the PLM information may be stored in the unused memory space of that field. A required field that is defined for an AOM identifier that is a serial number can be used by encoding or otherwise storing information in that required field in a way that includes both the AOM identifier and the desired PLM information for example a cable identifier . Moreover the PLM information can be combined with the AOM information e.g. the AOM identifier in a manner that does not affect the use of the AOM information by the non PLM processes of the host device . In other implementations PLM information is stored in unallocated memory locations. That is the PLM information is stored in memory locations that are not part of any defined field.

Typically the PLM information for example the cable identifier stored in the active end storage device will be the same as that stored in the passive end storage device . The aggregation point can obtain the cable identifier and any other PLM information from the passive end storage device in the manner described above. The aggregation point can then associate the cable identifier and therefore the corresponding physical communication media with a port of the patch panel as described above.

Similar to that described with respect to Example 1 the host device can access the active end storage device through the control interface of the active optical module to obtain the AOM information stored therein. In this second example the host device can also obtain the PLM information stored in the active end storage device . In one implementation of this example the PLM information is stored in the active end storage device so that a legacy host device will automatically read the PLM information when it reads the AOM information. That is the PLM information is stored in the active optical module such that the host device does not need to be updated for example no hardware or software modifications in order to obtain the stored PLM information. Again to achieve this the PLM information is stored in the active end storage device so that the host device will automatically read the PLM information when it reads the AOM information.

In one implementation of this example the host device can automatically obtain the PLM information based on information for example a header in the active end storage device which indicates that there is data in one or more user defined fields in the active end storage device . Upon reading the header and recognizing that there is data in one or more user defined fields the host device can access the locations on the active side storage device corresponding to the user defined fields to obtain the information therein. In another implementation the host device can be configured to obtain all information in the locations of the active side storage device dedicated to the user defined fields whether or not the user defined fields are actually used that is whether or not there is information stored in the locations corresponding to the user defined fields . In this way the host device can automatically obtain any PLM information stored in the user defined fields. In yet another implementation the host device can be configured to automatically obtain all information in all memory locations stored in the active end storage device and can thereby obtain the PLM information whether the PLM information is stored in a user defined field s or an unallocated memory location. In implementations where the PLM information is stored in one or more required fields that is fields required by the relevant MSA the host device can automatically obtain the stored PLM information when the host device obtains the AOM information in the corresponding field.

The host device can also be configured to respond to a request from the aggregation point to access a particular field and or a particular memory location on the active end storage device to obtain the PLM information stored therein.

In any case once the PLM information is obtained from the active end storage device by the host device the PLM information can be provided to the aggregation point . The PLM information for example the cable identifier along with its corresponding port number can be provided to the aggregation point in any of the manners described with respect to Example 1. In some examples the aggregation point can also obtain the AOM information and or other host information from the host device as described in the Example 1. For example the aggregation point can be configured to poll or scan each host device and or configured to respond to events or traps that occur at each host device .

The aggregation point can use the PLM information for example the cable identifier to associate the corresponding port of the host device with the physical media . The aggregation point can also associate the corresponding port of the patch panel with the physical communication media for example via the cable identifier from the passive end storage device . In this manner the aggregation point can determine the physical layer connection from a particular port of the patch panel to a particular port of the host device .

Similar to Example 1 if the active optical module is disconnected from a port of the host device and re connected to a different port of the host device the host device can re obtain the AOM information and PLM information from the active end storage device . The aggregation point will learn of these changes in the state of the ports of the host device using the state discovery techniques described above. In response to the state changes the aggregation point can then obtain the new AOM information PLM information and or other host information as described above.

In Example 3 the physical communication media that is used differs from the physical communication media used in Examples 1 and 2. The physical communication media that is used in Example 3 is shown in . It is to be understood that in practice both physical communication media and physical communication media may be used within the same network and possibly at the same host device .

Similar to the physical communication media PCM the physical communication media is a fiber optic cable including one or more optical fibers . Any of the example optical fibers described with respect to PCM can be used in PCM . Also similar to PCM the PCM has an active end and a passive end . The passive end includes a passive optical connector attached to the passive end of the fiber pair . The passive optical connector includes a storage device . The passive optical connector and the storage device can be configured as described above with respect to PCM .

PCM also includes an active end . Similar to PCM the active end includes an active optical module attached to the other active end of the fiber pair . The active optical module is attached using a non connector based connection between the fiber pair and the active optical module . For example the non connector based connection includes a permanent manufactured or semi permanent spliced connection but does not include a coupling made by mating pluggable and removable connectors e.g. a plug jack pair such as LC SC connectors to one another.

Also similar to PCM the active optical module includes an electrical connector by which transmit and receive signals are input and output in electrical form to and from the active optical module . The electrical connector is configured as described with respect to electrical connector of the PCM .

The active optical module also includes the active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received over the fiber pair . In the example shown in the active optical module includes an optical transceiver . The optical transceiver comprises a receiver optical assembly ROSA that receives a first optical signal from a first one of the optical fibers and is part of the path that produces a first received electrical signal from the first optical signal suitable for outputting from the electrical connector . The optical transceiver further comprises a transmitter optical assembly TOSA that in the path that receives the electrical transmit signal from the electrical connector and outputs a second transmit optical signal for communicating over the second one of the optical fibers . The received electrical signal and the transmit electrical signal can be output supplied to the electrical connector as described above with respect to PCM . The transceiver also includes a controller for controlling the operation of the TOSA and ROSA . The controller can include any suitable programmable processor FPGA or ASIC and can be coupled to one or more lines on the electrical connector for communication with a host device .

The active optical module also includes a programmable processor having a storage device coupled thereto. The programmable processor can include any suitable programmable processor such as a microprocessor and the storage device can be on a separate IC or can be incorporated on the same IC as the programmable processor . In an implementation of this example the storage device is an EEPROM however in other implementations other non volatile memory can be used.

The programmable processor can be configured to communicate with a host device over a control interface implemented by the electrical connector . The control interface implemented by the electrical connector can be as described with respect to the control interface of PCM . Accordingly for example a serial communication protocol for example the I2C bus protocol can be used for communicating over the control interface.

In contrast to the active optical module in the active optical module the programmable processor is coupled to the control interface. Accordingly the programmable processor is configured to send and receive data over the control interface. In an implementation of this example the programmable processor is configured to communicate using the I2C bus protocol. Moreover the programmable processor is configured to emulate the active end storage device described above with respect to PCM . To emulate the active end storage device the programmable processor is configured to receive a command for example a read command or write command from a host device that are formatted for and intended for an active end storage device and provide a response as though the response were from the active end storage device directly. For example in response to a read command from the host device the programmable processor can access the storage device to obtain the appropriate data that is with data corresponding to the memory locations or fields identified in the read command and respond with the data in a format as though the data were from the active end storage device directly. In response to a write command from the host device the programmable processor can store the corresponding information in the storage device . In an implementation of this example the programmable processor is transparent to the host device such that the host device can authenticate and perform tasks with the active optical module without being configured any differently than for the active optical module .

The AOM information discussed above with respect to the active end storage device can be stored in the storage device and the programmable processor can provide the AOM information to the host device in response to the appropriate command from the host device . That is from the perspective of the host device it appears as if the active optical module is a conventional active optical module that complies with the relevant MSA. PLM information can also be stored in the storage device as discussed above with respect to . The PLM information can include a cable identifier as well as attribute information. Since the programmable processor interfaces between the control interface and the storage device the AOM information and the PLM information can be stored in the device in any suitable manner and does not necessarily have to be stored in an manner that complies with the relevant MSA since the programmable processor can reformat the information into a MSA compliant format when supplying the information to the host device . The PLM information can be stored in the storage device at the same time as the AOM information such as during manufacturing of physical communication media .

Similar to that described with respect to the active end storage device the host device can send a command over the control interface configured to access an active end storage device in the active optical element . The programmable processor can retrieve the requested data data requested in the command from the host device from the storage device . In addition the requested data for example AOM information the programmable processor can include PLM information in the response to the command. In one implementation of this example the programmable processor inserts the PLM information into the response in a manner that is transparent to the host device .

Since the host device is configured to communicate with an active end storage device in the active optical module the host device is configured to receive responses that are formatted as described above with respect to the active side storage device . For example the host device can be configured to access information from an active end storage device that is formatted in accordance with a relevant MSA into required fields and user defined fields. Other organization structures can also be used. In one implementation of this example the programmable processor can insert the PLM information into a user defined field. In one implementation the programmable processor can provide information for example appropriate header information indicating that one or more of the user defined fields are stored in the emulated active end storage device. This can prompt the host device to request the one or more user defined fields and the programmable processor can provide the information corresponding to the user define field which can include the PLM information to the host device in response to such a request. Alternatively the programmable processor can provide the PLM information as information stored in unallocated memory locations of the emulated active end storage device in a similar manner. In another implementation the programmable processor can concatenate encode or otherwise include the PLM information with AOM information corresponding to a required field in the emulated active end storage device. For example the PLM information can be provide the PLM information with an AOM identifier in a field that is defined for the AOM identifier. The PLM information for example a cable identifier or a portion thereof can be concatenated with the AOM identifier and provided to the host device in portions of the field that are not used by the AOM identifier.

In some implementations the programmable processor can be configured to provide different PLM information in response to different commands from the host device . For example the particular PLM information that is provided to the host device can be determined based on the memory location of the emulated active end storage device that the host device is attempting to access. This approach is also referred to here as an addressed based scheme . In other implementations the PLM information can be provided based on a timing or sequencing of the commands from the host device . For example the programmable processor can implement a state based process flow in which first PLM information for example a first portion of a cable identifier is provided in response to a first command and second PLM information for example a second or remaining portion of the cable identifier can be provided in response to a second command. This approach is also referred to here as a state based scheme . In some implementations the PLM information can be provided using both an addressed based scheme and a state based scheme. For example in response to a first command attempting to access a first memory address for example corresponding to an AOM identifier first PLM information can be provided and in response to a second command attempting to access a second memory address no PLM information can be provided and in response to a second message attempting to access the first memory address second PLM can be provided. That is in response to a first and second command to access a first memory address the processor can provide first and second PLM information. This state based scheme can be used as a logical communication channel between the aggregation point and the programmable processor with the aggregation point controlling the process flow via messages for example Layer 2 requests to the host device . The aggregation point and the programmable processor can implement corresponding state based process flows. For example the aggregation point can send a first Layer 2 request to the host device causing the host device to send a corresponding message to the programmable processor for example attempting to access a first memory address on the emulated active end storage device . The programmable processor can respond by providing first PLM information to the host device . The host device can then send the first PLM information to the aggregation point in response to the Layer 2 request. The aggregation point can send another Layer 2 request which may be the same as the first Layer 2 request to the host device again causing the host device to send a corresponding message to the programmable processor . If this second message is received before a timeout of the state of the programmable processor the programmable processor can respond by providing second PLM information to the host device . If no messages are received before a timeout of a corresponding state the programmable processor and aggregation point can return to an initial state. In this manner the programmable processor and the aggregation point could communicate PLM information as desired.

In any case PLM information can be provided to the host device by the programmable processor . Advantageously the above implementations may be configured to operate transparently to the host device that is the host device does not need to be updated or otherwise modified to support the communication of such PLM information or to use the modified active optical modules .

Once the PLM information is obtained from the programmable processor the PLM information can be provided to the aggregation point . The PLM information for example the cable identifier along with its corresponding port number can be provided to the aggregation point in any of the manners described with respect to the PCM . In some implementations the aggregation point can also obtain AOM information and or other host information from the host device as described above.

The aggregation point can use the PLM information for example the cable identifier to associate the corresponding port of the host device with the physical media . The aggregation point can also associate the corresponding port of the patch panel with the physical media for example via the cable identifier from the passive end storage device . In this manner the aggregation point can determine the physical layer connection from the particular port of the patch panel to the particular port of the host device .

Moreover the aggregation point can be configured to discover any changes in the state of the ports of the host device in the same manner as described above.

In Example 4 the physical communication media that is used differs from the physical communication media used in Examples 1 and 2 and the physical communication media used in Example 3. The physical communication media that is used in Example 4 is shown in . It is to be understood that in practice physical communication media physical communication media and physical communication media may be used within the same network and possibly at the same host device .

In the example shown in the physical communication media is a passive fiber optic cable having two passive ends with one or more optical fibers therebetween. Any of the example optical fibers described with respect to PCM can be used. Each passive end includes a passive fiber optic connected attached to a respective end of the fiber pair . Each passive optical connector includes a storage device . The passive optical connectors and the storage devices can be configured as described above with respect to PCM . Accordingly each passive optical connector can include a storage device interface via which the corresponding storage device can be accessed. This storage device interface can be implemented by incorporating appropriate electrical contacts in the passive optical connector .

In this example the first of the passive optical connectors is inserted into a port of a patch panel or other passive device as described above with respect to the passive optical connector of PCM . The PLM information from the storage device associated with this first passive optical connector can be obtained by the aggregation point in the manner described above with respect to the passive optical connector of PCM . Accordingly the aggregation point can associate the first passive optical connector and or the physical communication media with the corresponding port of the patch panel . The second of the passive optical connectors is inserted into an adapter of the pluggable optical transceiver .

The pluggable optical transceiver includes an electrical connector by which transmit and receive signals are input and output in electrical form to and from the pluggable optical transceiver . The electrical connector is configured as described with respect to electrical connector of the PCM . The pluggable optical transceiver also includes the adapter configured to mate with a passive optical connector . The adapter and the passive optical connector are configured such that when the passive optical connector is inserted in to the adapter optical signals can be coupled between the pluggable optical transceiver and the physical communication media . The adapter can have any suitable form such as a duplex LC SC or MPO adapter.

The pluggable optical transceiver also includes the active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received over an optical cable e.g. physical communication media inserted into the adapter . The pluggable optical transceiver includes an optical transceiver comprising a TOSA ROSA and a controller that operate in a similar manner to optical transceiver TOSA ROSA and controller of active optical module . The pluggable optical transceiver also includes a programmable processor coupled to a storage device . The programmable processor can include any suitable programmable processor such as a microprocessor and the storage device can be on a separate IC or can be incorporated one the same IC as the programmable processor . In an implementation of this example the storage device is an EEPROM however in other implementations other non volatile memory can be used.

The programmable processor can be configured to communicate with a host device over a control interface implemented by the electrical connector in the same manner as described with respect to the programmable processor . Moreover the programmable processor can be configured to emulate a storage device in an active end of a cable as described with respect to the programmable processor or can be configured to emulate a storage device in a conventional pluggable optical transceiver in a manner similar to that described with respect to the programmable processor . The programmable processor can also be coupled to the control interface on the electrical connector and can be configured to communicate using the I2C I squared C bus protocol control over the control interface.

Similar to programmable processor the programmable processor can be configured to send AOM information and PLM information to the host device by emulating a storage device. In the example shown in however the PLM information is obtained from the storage device associated with the second passive optical connector that is inserted into the adapter of the pluggable optical transceiver . The programmable processor is configured to access the storage device through a storage device interface associated with the adapter . The storage device interface is configured to mate and inter operate with the storage device interface used in a passive optical connector of a given physical communication media . Software executing on the programmable processor of the pluggable optical transceiver is able to read the write data from and to the storage device associated with any appropriate passive optical connector that is connected to the adapter using the storage device interface . The software and programmable processor can implement reading and writing to the storage device in the US provisional patent application and US non provisional patent applications cited herein.

Accordingly the programmable processor can obtain PLM information from the storage device associated with the second passive optical connector when the second passive optical connector is inserted into the adapter . The programmable processor can then provide the PLM information obtained from the storage device to the host device in the same manner as described with respect to the programmable processor . The PLM information obtained from the storage device can be stored in the storage device and accessed from the storage device for providing to the host device . Instead of or in addition to be stored in the storage device the PLM information can be obtained in real time from the storage device in response to a message from the host device . AOM information can be stored in the storage device and the programmable processor can be configured to obtain and respond with such AOM information corresponding to a command from a host device . Similar to the manner described with respect to PLM information from the storage device can be provided along with the AOM information from the storage device e.g. in the same field different field or in an unallocated memory location .

Once the PLM information is provided to the host device the PLM information can be provided to the aggregation point in the same manner as described with respect to . The PLM information for example the cable identifier of the storage device associated with the second passive optical connector obtained from the host device along with its corresponding port number can be provided to the aggregation point in any of the manners described with respect to the PCM . In some implementations the aggregation point can also obtain AOM information and or other host information from the host device as described above.

The aggregation point can use the PLM information for example the cable identifier to associate the corresponding port of the host device with the physical media . The aggregation point can also associate the corresponding port of the patch panel with the physical media for example via the cable identifier from the passive end storage device associated with the first passive optical connector . In this manner the aggregation point can determine the physical layer connection from the particular port of the patch panel to the particular port of the host device .

Advantageously incorporating a storage device interface in a pluggable optical connector and enabling the PLM information from a corresponding storage device to be provided to the aggregation point can enable the physical layer connection to be identified from a given port of a patch panel to a given port of a host device without requiring changes to the host device or the physical communication media . A simple replacement of a legacy pluggable optical transceiver with the pluggable optical transceiver can provide the physical layer management capability.

In another implementation another pluggable optical transceiver is used at the first end of the physical communication media such that the physical communication media is coupled to two pluggable optical transceivers one on each end. In this implementation the combination of the pluggable optical transceivers and the physical communication media can be connected between two host devices and used to provide physical layer management capability for the connection between the two host devices .

For example a first passive optical connector of the physical communication media can be connected to a first pluggable optical transceiver . A second passive optical connector of the physical communication media can be connected to a second pluggable optical transceiver . The first pluggable optical transceiver can be connected via its electrical connector to a port of a first host device . The second pluggable optical transceiver can be connected via its electrical connector to a port of a second host device . The first host device and the second host device can send and receive signals over the combination of pluggable optical transceivers and the physical communication media . Additionally in the manner described above the aggregation point can obtain PLM information from a first storage device associated with the first passive optical connector of the physical communication media and information on the port of the first host device in which the first optical transceiver module is inserted. The aggregation point can also obtain PLM information from a second storage device associated with the second passive optical connector of the physical communication media and information on the port of the second host device in which the second optical transceiver module is inserted. The aggregation point can aggregate this information to associate the port in which the first optical transceiver module is inserted of the first host device with the port in which the second optical transceiver module is inserted of the second host device and determine the physical layer connection between the ports.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

Further details embodiments and implementations can be found in the following United States patent applications all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS also referred to here as the 624 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK is also referred to here as the 497 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 501 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled INTER NETWORKING DEVICES FOR USE WITH PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION also referred to here as the 501 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 506 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled NETWORK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOR USE WITH PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION also referred to here as the 506 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 514 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS also referred to here as the 514 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 395 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF also referred to here as the 395 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 253 208 filed on Oct. 20 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS also referred to here as the 208 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 964 filed on Oct. 19 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS also referred to here as the 964 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 386 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF also referred to here as the 386 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 961 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled FIBER PLUGS AND ADAPTERS FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY the 961 application and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 948 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled BLADED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM the 948 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 964 filed on Oct. 19 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 253 208 filed on Oct. 20 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 907 724 filed on Oct. 19 2010 titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 948 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled PANEL INCLUDING BLADE FEATURE FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 844 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 439 693 filed on Feb. 4 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 730 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 737 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 743 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 961 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled Fiber Plug And Adapter For Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 828 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled Fiber Plugs And Adapters For Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 437 504 filed on Jan. 28 2011 titled Fiber Plugs And Adapters For Managed Connectivity U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 784 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 788 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 797 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 841 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 856 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 466 696 filed on Mar. 23 2011 titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 395 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 905 689 filed on Oct. 15 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 386 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 905 658 filed on Oct. 15 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 715 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled DOUBLE BUFFER INSERTION COUNT STORED IN A DEVICE ATTACHED TO A PHYSICAL LAYER MEDIUM U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 725 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled DYNAMICALLY DETECTING A DEFECTIVE CONNECTOR AT A PORT U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 729 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled IDENTIFIER ENCODING SCHEME FOR USE WITH MULTI PATH CONNECTORS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 736 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR UTILIZING VARIABLE LENGTH DATA FIELD STORAGE SCHEMES ON PHYSICAL COMMUNICATION MEDIA SEGMENTS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 743 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled EVENT MONITORING IN A SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY OBTAINING AND MANAGING PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION USING A RELIABLE PACKET BASED COMMUNICATION PROTOCOL .

