---

title: Non-pyrotechnic, non-lethal spring powered disseminator
abstract: A non-pyrotechnic disseminator includes a body portion with a cover; a first compartment that holds disseminating materials; a spring-loaded piston; a cable connecting the piston to a base of the body portion: a second compartment adjacent to the first compartment; a control mechanism; and an initiator mechanism. The control mechanism sets a delay timing countdown for initiation of dissemination of the disseminating materials out of the body portion. The initiator mechanism begins the delay timing countdown. The second compartment includes a delay fuze module; and a cutting mechanism in contact with the cable. The delay fuze module processes the delay timing countdown, and upon expiration of the countdown, sends a signal to the cutting mechanism to cut the cable. When the cable cuts, the spring uncoils and pushes the piston, which forces the disseminating materials out of the body portion by rupturing the cover.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09587920&OS=09587920&RS=09587920
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09587920
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150929
---
The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments herein generally relate to hand grenade sized dissemination devices and more particularly to non pyrotechnic disseminators.

The conventional CS teargas grenade M7A3 shown in relies on a burning pyrotechnic to disseminate 128 g of pelletized CS which results in approximately 45 50 grams of CS dispersed as an aerosol. Pyrotechnic disseminators can burn some of the CS destroying its active properties as well as posing a high risk of starting fires. The threat of fire limits the grenade s operational uses to outdoors scenarios under controlled conditions that reduce the risk of fires. Pyrotechnic devices operate over an extended period of time typically measured in tens of seconds to minutes.

Bursting type grenades can provide a near instantaneous disseminated cloud. The obsolete ABC M25 A2 shown in is an example of this type of grenade that uses an explosive detonator to expel the CS1 fill 57 g . A bursting grenade has a reduced risk of fire hazard but due to its method of operation can cause injury to personnel from flying grenade body shrapnel.

A number of commercial riot control disseminators are available. These devices typically rely on pyrotechnics explosives or propellants gas to disseminate the riot control agent and most use pyrotechnic fuze delay systems. The pyrotechnic devices generally employ double and triple walled configurations to contain the pyrotechnic flame internally to try to reduce the risk of starting fires.

Furthermore there are a number of devices that use compressed springs to propel a projectile although many of these devices are focused on the toy and paintball industries and whose primary function is to propel small projectiles. An example conventional grenade type device that uses compressed springs in its operation is provided below the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 061 276 issued to Danon et al. for a Non Lethal Projectile uses an internal spring to absorb energy upon impact of the device with the intended target. While this conventional solution is suitable for the purpose for which it was designed it generally does not provide a suitable solution for both non pyrotechnic and non lethal uses and accordingly there remains a need for a new non pyrotechnic non lethal compressed spring powered disseminator.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a non pyrotechnic disseminator comprising a body portion a cover on the body portion a first compartment adjacent to the cover wherein the first compartment is configured to hold disseminating materials a piston in the first compartment a spring attached to the piston and a base of the first compartment a cable connecting the piston to a base of the body portion a second compartment adjacent to the first compartment a control mechanism operatively connected to the second compartment and an initiator mechanism operatively connected to the second compartment. The control mechanism may set a delay timing countdown for initiation of dissemination of the disseminating materials out of the body portion. The initiator mechanism may begin the delay timing countdown.

The second compartment may comprise a delay fuze module and a cutting mechanism in contact with the cable. The delay fuze module may process the delay timing countdown and upon expiration of the countdown sends a signal to the cutting mechanism to cut the cable. Upon cutting of the cable the spring may uncoil and push the piston towards the cover thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion by rupturing the cover. The non pyrotechnic disseminator may further comprise an actuating mechanism operatively connected to the second compartment wherein actuation of the actuating mechanism activates the delay fuze module allowing the delay timing countdown to be set by the control mechanism and initiated by the initiator mechanism and wherein expiration of the countdown immediately causes the cutting mechanism to cut the cable. The disseminating materials may exit the body portion as an aerosol. The disseminating materials may comprise any of a powder slurry and liquid. The non pyrotechnic disseminator may further comprise a self righting mechanism operatively connected to the body portion.

Another embodiment provides a grenade comprising a body portion a first compartment configured in the body portion wherein the first compartment is configured to hold disseminating materials a force transfer device in the first compartment an energy storage device attached to the force transfer device by a cable a control mechanism operatively connected to the body portion and an initiator mechanism operatively connected to the body portion. The grenade may further comprise a cover on the body portion and a second compartment adjacent to the first compartment wherein the energy storage device is attached to a base of the first compartment wherein the control mechanism sets a delay timing countdown for initiation of dissemination of the disseminating materials out of the body portion and wherein the cable is connected to a base of the body portion. The initiator mechanism may begin the delay timing countdown.

The second compartment may comprise a delay fuze module and a dislodgment mechanism in contact with the cable. The delay fuze module may process the delay timing countdown and upon expiration of the countdown sends a signal to the dislodgment mechanism to dislodge the cable. Upon dislodging of the cable the energy storage device may transfer energy to the force transfer device which transfers a force towards the cover thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion past the cover. The grenade may further comprise an actuating mechanism operatively connected to the second compartment wherein actuation of the actuating mechanism sends a signal to the delay fuze module and wherein expiration of the countdown immediately causes the dislodgment mechanism to dislodge the cable from the base of the body portion. The disseminating materials may exit the body portion as an aerosol. The disseminating materials may comprise any of a powder slurry and liquid. The grenade may further comprise a self righting mechanism operatively connected to the body portion.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a non pyrotechnic hand grenade sized device for the dissemination of powders and other disseminating materials such as non lethal riot control agents. The device is applicable to many riot control situations and is particularly advantageous for use within confined spaces such as buildings where the risk of starting a fire is greatest. Being completely non pyrotechnic allows the device to be classified as non munitions which significantly reduces handling and storage requirements. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

A non pyrotechnic powder disseminator for dispersing non lethal riot control material rapidly is desirable both from a military and law enforcement perspective. As provided in the embodiments herein achieve this by providing a non pyrotechnic disseminator which may be configured as a grenade comprising a body portion a cover on the body portion a first compartment adjacent to the cover wherein the first compartment is configured to hold disseminating materials a force transfer device which may be configured as a piston in the first compartment opposite cover an energy storage device which may be configured as a spring attached to the force transfer device e.g. piston and the base of the first compartment at cable connecting the force transfer device e.g. piston to the base of the body portion by passing through the center of the energy storage device e.g. spring and through the delay fuze module a second compartment adjacent to the first compartment a control mechanism operatively connected to the second compartment and an initiator mechanism which may be configured as a button operatively connected to the second compartment .

The control mechanism is configured to set a delay timing countdown for initiation of dissemination of the disseminating materials out of the body portion . The initiator mechanism is configured to begin the delay timing countdown. The second compartment comprises a delay fuze module and a dislodgment mechanism which may be configured as a cutting mechanism in contact with the cable . The delay fuze module is configured to process the delay timing countdown and upon expiration of the countdown sends a signal to the dislodgment mechanism e.g. cutting mechanism to dislodge or cut the cable . Upon dislodging or cutting of the cable the energy storage device e.g. spring uncoils and pushes the force transfer device e.g. piston towards the cover thereby pushing the disseminating materials out of the body portion by rupturing the cover . The non pyrotechnic disseminator further comprises an actuating mechanism operatively connected to the second compartment wherein actuation of the actuating mechanism activates said delay fuze module allowing the delay timing countdown to be set by said control mechanism and initiated by said initiator mechanism and wherein expiration of the countdown immediately causes the dislodgment mechanism e.g. cutting mechanism to dislodge e.g. cut the cable .

Preferably the embodiments herein utilize a metallic high compressive force spring to push non lethal fluidized CS powder out of one end of a cylindrical shaped grenade body . The energy storage device e.g. spring is contained within the first compartment which extends for most of the entire length of the body portion . In one embodiment the energy storage device is configured as a tapered spring. As an example the tapered spring could be configured with a major diameter of 2.375 in to match the inner diameter of the body portion and a minor diameter of 1.625 in and an average spring constant of 22.3 lbf in or greater.

One end of the energy storage device e.g. spring is physically attached to the base of the second compartment of the body portion and the other end of the energy storage device e.g. spring is biased against and attaches to the force transfer device e.g. piston and is able to move the force transfer device e.g. piston based on the predetermined compressive strength of the energy storage device e.g. spring . The force transfer device e.g. piston is selectively sized with a diameter just smaller than the diameter of the body portion and the diameter of the first compartment thereby providing a light seal to keep the payload powder from falling below the force transfer device e.g. piston .

In its operational state as generally shown in the energy storage device e.g. spring and force transfer device e.g. piston are compressed into the base portion of the first compartment and held securely in place by the thin retention cable attached between the base of the body portion and the bottom of the force transfer device e.g. piston . The payload powder is loaded on top of the force transfer device e.g. piston and a thin cover is placed over the open end to seal off the first compartment . Located under and adjacent to the energy storage device e.g. spring at the base of the body portion is the second compartment which comprises a mechanical or electronic time delay fuze module .

An actuating mechanism comprising a pull ring connected to a safety pin is configured through the base of the body portion into the time delay fuze and secures the disseminator . When the time comes to operate the disseminator the safety pin is removed by a user not shown to energize the delay sequence. The control mechanism controls the delay sequence wherein the control mechanism may be embodied as a knob or button on the base of the body portion . A delay time could be selected and the initiator mechanism is selected to start the delay count down. The disseminator would then be thrown by an operator not shown . Once the delay time expires the dislodgment mechanism e.g. cutting mechanism inside the second compartment severs the piston retention cable as shown in which shows the severed cable . Then the energy storage device e.g. spring uncoils placing pressure on the force transfer device e.g. piston and payload powder . The energy storage device e.g. spring and force transfer device e.g. piston forces the powder payload against the cover across the top of the body portion rupturing the cover for an instantaneous release of the powder in the form of a cloud of aerosol . With the force transfer device e.g. piston attached to the energy storage device e.g. spring the force transfer device e.g. piston remains inside the body portion with no danger of it flying off as a projectile and causing injury.

The non pyrotechnic powder disseminator eliminates the risk of fire as well as the risk of personnel being burned by a hot grenade body. The disseminator could safely be used in confined spaces and within combustible environments. The non pyrotechnic powder disseminator increases safety by eliminating fire and shrapnel hazards and reducing handling and storage restrictions. Furthermore the disseminator produces an almost instantaneous cloud of aerosol as shown in similar to that produced by a pyrotechnic or explosive device without the associated injury from shrapnel and ejected parts. Full pyrotechnic devices or devices with small amounts of pyrotechnics in the fuze and delay assemblies require special care for handling and storage. However a completely non pyrotechnic disseminator as provided by the embodiments herein eliminates many of the hazards associated with current inventoried and commercial pyrotechnic and explosive riot control grenades and has fewer restrictions on storage and handling.

In addition alternative embodiments may also include any material that is suitable for use in the construction of the non pyrotechnic disseminator and the type of disseminating materials being disseminated could include slurries and liquids in addition to or alternative to the powder described above. Further embodiments as shown in can include using a self righting mechanism operatively connected to the grenade body portion such as spring actuated legs or a roly poly apparatus to increase the dissemination efficiency of the embodiments herein by orienting the disseminator so that the powder or slurry or liquid will be disseminated into the air as opposed to parallel to the ground.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

