---

title: Method and apparatus for route selection based on recorded and calculated routes
abstract: An approach for generating one or more personalized travel routes based on recorded routes and calculated routes is disclosed. An apparatus and method determines to generate at least one intersection point between at least one calculated route and at least one recorded route, wherein the at least one calculated route and the at least one recorded route include one or more common endpoints, and cause a generation of at least one personalized route by causing a combination of one or more segments of the at least one recorded route with one or more other segments of the at least one calculated route based, at least in part, on the at least one intersection point. The apparatus and method to determine the personalized route can cause a filtering of the at least one recorded route based on at least one filtering criterion to determine one or more candidate recorded routes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09488485&OS=09488485&RS=09488485
owner: HERE GLOBAL B.V.
number: 09488485
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20150805
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the right to the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 538 414 filed Jun. 29 2012 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ROUTE SELECTION BASED ON RECORDED AND CALCULATED ROUTES the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling route planning applications and services. For example device users often rely upon global positioning system GPS technology and complimentary mapping applications to plan routes and determine travel paths for reaching a destination. Typically the route is determined by the mapping application on the basis of known input including origin information as supplied by the user or as detected via a GPS sensor of the user device. However the route calculated by the application often may not match the actual route preferred or traveled by a user. This disparity between the route calculated for a user and the route recorded from a user s commute between the same endpoints e.g. starting points waypoints destinations etc. can potentially result in a poorer user experience and or underutilization of the routing application or service. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to providing routes that leverage experience information such as using learned recorded routes such as amassed by the user and or other users or sources regarding their travels to enable the generation of a travel route based on a user s driving preferences or experiences.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for generating one or more travel routes based on experience information related to a user s previous learned or recorded routes.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining to generate at least one intersection point between at least one calculated route and at least one recorded route wherein the at least one calculated route and the at least one recorded route include at least in part one or more common endpoints. The method also comprises causing at least in part a generation of at least one personalized route by causing at least in part a combination of one or more segments of the at least one recorded route with one or more other segments of the at least one calculated route based at least in part on the at least one intersection point.

According to another embodiment the method further comprises determining to generate one or more candidate intersection points with respect to the at least one calculated route for one or more candidate recorded routes that include at least in part the one or more common endpoints. The method also comprises causing at least in part a selection of one of the generated one or more candidate intersection points that intersects the at least one calculated route at a latest point. Further the method comprises causing at least in part a designation of the selected one of the one or more candidate intersection points as the at least one recorded route for the generation of the at least one personalized route.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine to generate at least one intersection point between at least one calculated route and at least one recorded route wherein the at least one calculated route and the at least one recorded route include at least in part one or more common endpoints and cause at least in part a generation of at least one personalized route by causing at least in part a combination of one or more segments of the at least one recorded route with one or more other segments of the at least one calculated route based at least in part on the at least one intersection point.

According to another embodiment an apparatus further comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine to generate one or more candidate intersection points with respect to the at least one calculated route for one or more candidate recorded routes that include at least in part the one or more common endpoints cause at least in part a selection of one of the generated one or more candidate intersection points that intersects the at least one calculated route at a latest point and cause at least in part a designation of the selected one of the one or more candidate intersection points as the at least one recorded route for the generation of the at least one personalized route.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine to generate at least one intersection point between at least one calculated route and at least one recorded route wherein the at least one calculated route and the at least one recorded route include at least in part one or more common endpoints and cause at least in part a generation of at least one personalized route by causing at least in part a combination of one or more segments of the at least one recorded route with one or more other segments of the at least one calculated route based at least in part on the at least one intersection point.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine to generate one or more candidate intersection points with respect to the at least one calculated route for one or more candidate recorded routes that include at least in part the one or more common endpoints cause at least in part a selection of one of the generated one or more candidate intersection points that intersects the at least one calculated route at a latest point and cause at least in part a designation of the selected one of the one or more candidate intersection points as the at least one recorded route for the generation of the at least one personalized route.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining to generate at least one intersection point between at least one calculated route and at least one recorded route wherein the at least one calculated route and the at least one recorded route include at least in part one or more common endpoints. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a generation of at least one personalized route by the means causing at least in part a combination of one or more segments of the at least one recorded route with one or more other segments of the at least one calculated route based at least in part on the at least one intersection point.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing a method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for generating one or more personalized routes for travel based on calculated and recorded route experience information are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention can be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to routing applications it is contemplated that the approach described herein can be used with any mapping application destination planning service location based system or any other utility for generating routes maps travel directions and data regarding various points of interest. A point of interest can include for example any data for indicating a location of a venue object person or other item. It is noted that one or more points of interest POIs can be specified in connection with routing information as generated by a routing application for denoting items of interest to a user i.e. landmarks historic highways special buildings activities parks restaurants.

The methods and apparatus and systems of the exemplary embodiments generally relate to the field of route planning and navigation and can have applicability to driving pedestrian and public transport route planning for example. However the exemplary embodiments and disclosure should not be construed in a limiting sense and can have various applications such as in relation to digital mapping digital route planning turn by turn navigation as well as to a personal network concept for example.

Digital route planning has traditionally been used by consumers or users devices capable of receiving and generating navigation information such as in turn by turn systems to get to various destinations. For example with the introduction of real time traffic information into those systems it has become more typical for the users to use turn by turn systems and digital route planning also during their daily drives e.g. commutes . However one likely disadvantage of the user using a digital route planning system in an area the user knows very well is that typically the digital route planning system can calculate routes different from what the user prefers driving.

In this regard such as in urban and commuter areas it can be typical that users of navigation devices can tend to have different personal route preferences which typically cannot be matched or substantially duplicated by digital route planning systems without prior knowledge. While there have been attempts at improving general digital route planning by learning from the users however such learning or knowledge typically can be in the form of improving digital route calculation based on how many users drive on which streets for example. To address needs in this regard the methods apparatus and systems of the exemplary embodiments and disclosure relate to for example determining one or personalized routes or personalized route segments by combining the personal network concept with real time route determinations or calculations such as by utilizing digital route planning in conjunction with recorded user routes as can be in conjunction with user preferences or context information.

As previously discussed with the introduction of real time traffic information a common scenario is for a commuter to use navigation and mapping applications during daily commutes to for situational awareness of traffic conditions accidents weather etc. that may occur along the user s planned route even when the commuter knows the route to the intended destination well. When the calculated route generated by the application does not match the actual travel route the situational awareness information e.g. traffic estimated time of arrival etc. may not be accurate. This problem is particularly applicable in urban or commuter areas where there are many different paths or routes between any two or more endpoints. In various embodiments the system enables the combining of calculated routes with recorded routes with recorded routes for individual users to generate personalized routes.

In one embodiment the system determines requests from routing information between specified endpoints and then determines whether there are recorded routes originating from or terminating at the specified endpoints. At the same time the system may perform real time route calculations using traditional routing algorithms to determine one or more calculated routes. The system then determines one or more intersection points between the recorded routes and calculated routes. The intersections points provided connection points for combining the recorded and calculated routes. For example if the recorded route and a calculated originate from the same starting or beginning point the system can determine the latest intersection point e.g. the intersection point furthest from the starting point or closest to the destination . Then they system connects the portion of the recorded route from the starting point to the latest intersection point with the portion of the calculated route from the latest intersection point to the destination to generate a combined or personalized route. In some embodiments the system may select the intersection point for combining based on criteria other than the latest point.

In addition the system may filter or select for recorded routes based on contextual information of the user. For example contextual information may indicate a purpose or category of the planned travel such as whether the travel is for pleasure work shopping etc. Each context or category for instance can be associated with different respective recorded and calculated routes. In other embodiments the system may filter or select for recorded routes based on characteristics of the recorded route such as age or frequency. For example older routes may not reflect user preferences as accurately as new routes. Similarly more frequently traveled routes may more accurately reflect user preference than less frequently traveled routes. Accordingly the system can apply various selection or weighting schemes or algorithms to determine which recorded routes or route segments to select for generating a personalized route for the user.

By way of example the system enables experience information such as previously recorded routes traveled by a user between one or more endpoints to be utilized in conjunction with determination of personalized routes or personalized route segments according to exemplary embodiments for example. In one embodiment experience information may also include geotagged photos pictures videos documents audio files audio streams and other data that indicate routes or route segments that have been traveled by a user for one or more personalized routes for example. Also the experience information can include other types of contact information such as in relation to an individual entity or POI located or living at a place location or position near a route or route segment for example. As such contact information and experience information can be of any of various sources or types and should not be construed in a limiting sense. In addition the system enables the calculated and recorded route experience information to be rendered for display to a user of a mapping application or routing service as representative of or in addition to one or more points of interest. Experience information is maintained by various context data sources made available by one or more users one or more content providers one or more media outlets one or more retailers or a combination thereof. The context data sources are designated for access by an experience based routing determination platform according to on one or more access policies established between the requesting user one or more other users a provider of the route determination platform the one or more media outlets the one or more content providers or a combination thereof.

Users of computing devices such as tablet computers laptops and cell phones often rely on mapping applications and route planning services to fulfill their location determination or route planning needs. By way of example device users can access an online mapping service e.g. Google Maps MapQuest in order to determine directions from a point of origin to a destination. As another example some user devices are equipped with global positioning system GPS technology and complimentary mapping applications that enable users to plan routes execute turn by turn directions and or determine optimal travel paths for reaching a given destination. Typically the mapping application or routing service is configured to determine the shortest route from a designated point of origin to the destination. In other instances the user can require that the application or service generate routes featuring the least number of tolls or highways enables the quickest time to completion accommodates a given mode of user transport e.g. train bus or car etc.

In certain embodiments one or more experience types in relation to context information can be selected by a user for filtering aggregated experience information maintained by one or more data sources in conjunction with determination of personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. It is noted that the data sources can be pulled from accessed by or referenced by the route determination platform in accordance with any known data mining and exchange protocols languages and network methodologies. Also the experience information can be retrieved on the basis of context information related to a user or their user equipment . For example time location and position data relative to the UE as well as activity information regarding the user can be processed by the platform for affecting the experience information retrieval process. As such the context information relative to the current moment of user travel or need is determined in addition to the desired experience type. It is noted that the experience information as gathered by the platform can be historical current or a combination thereof.

The system includes an experience based route determination platform that is configured to enable the retrieval of experience information relative to a user request for routing information in determination of personalized routes in accordance with exemplary embodiments. In addition the experience based route determination platform provides a functional and operational interface between one or more context data sources for maintaining experience information one or more mapping services for generating routing information in connection with a mapping application such as in route mapping application module on UE or a combination thereof. By way of example the experience based routing platform is able to receive and interpret requests for routing information as input via the one or more mapping applications of the route mapping application module operable by one or more user devices i.e. user equipment UE on the basis of a selected experience type such as user route preference in recorded route information for user previously used routes or other context information for example. Also according to exemplary embodiments the route determination platform and its corresponding functions modules and storage can be included in the user device UE such as on a mobile phone for example. The request can include for example an input for representing an origin a destination a point of interest POI a travel modality e.g. transport type a travel condition e.g. preferred arrival time preferred road type or other user specified criteria. The route determination platform then processes this input along with the user selected experience type in order to determine one or more personalized routes based on calculated route information and recorded route information as can be filtered by context information such as POIs and or experience information best suited for or representative of the request for a route. Based on this determination the experience based route determination platform thus enables the mapping application of the route mapping application module and or associated mapping service to render an optimized output for one or more personalized routes to fulfill the route request.

By way of example the optimized output rendered to the user of the mapping application of the route mapping application module at a device UE can include routing information representative of the selected experience type such as previously recorded routes as to user route preference. In certain embodiments the optimized route output can also be filtered to provide personalized route information that can include one or more POIs and or the experience information related to the selected experience type including one or more defined themes or user preferences such as user shopping or fuel destination in personalized route determination. More specifically the output as rendered to a display of UE via the mapping application of the route mapping application module enables the requesting user to traverse visit or otherwise experience the various POIs corresponding to the experience information such as can be retrieved from context data sources for example. Routing information can include for example directions maps images representative of various landmarks waypoints coordinates and other data for traversing a given geographical terrain from an origin to a destination. The routing information can also include based on a user selected level of granularity an image or map representative of a general area region or location.

In certain embodiments the one or more context data sources are repositories maintained by different entities or parties. As noted previously experience information at the various context data sources can be organized according to one or more themes i.e. descriptors or categories of experience information for denoting a particular experience type or context for example. By way of example the mapping application of the route mapping application module can serve as a data source by providing one or more user preferences recorded routes or other as experience information for example. Also the user can store the experience data to a private data source . Similarly other user data can be provided by one or more other users such as other users of the UE such as information and data as to past travels relative to a given location. The data sources provided by the one or more users can be specified according to one or more access settings such as for personalized route determination maintained by the route determination platform for example.

Still further a content provider or media outlet can store media data source items such as videos audio streams pictures and images regarding various POIs or user preferences corresponding to a given location or locations as can be used for context information in determining personalized routes for example. For example images of one or more statues buildings or parks can be maintained by a travel site photo sharing site news media outlet information bureau or other data source available to the route determination platform in relation to context information in determination of one or more personalized routes for example. By way of example location information pertaining to the UE can be analyzed to determine whether the user is within proximity to the park such as if the user preference is to travel a route near such park for example. The experience based routing platform enables a user requesting routing information to further refine the experience type based on the relationship between the user and the various data sources.

It is noted that the data provided by the context data sources can be stored to include various metadata. The metadata can provide additional information regarding the media or content including temporal data e.g. a timestamp activity data e.g. a name of a venue location data e.g. coordinates zip code network address user publisher information e.g. name of a provider of the data etc. In addition the metadata can also specify a defined theme under which the experience information can be categorized such as for context filtering to determine one or more personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. As such the experience type can be correlated with one or more themes for organizing the various experience information for correlation with one or more experience types for example.

Hence the metadata enables the routing platform to filter the broad array of available experience information at the various data sources according to the selected experience type. Context information can also be used to filter and retrieve experience information accordingly or to identify relevant POIs based on a determined user and or device context as can be used in personalized route determination for example.

The experience based route determination platform enables execution of various algorithms for generating routing information in connection with associated POI data experience information mapping information routing data generated by the mapping service and the like as can be used in conjunction with calculated and recorded route information to determine one or more personalized routes or route segments. Algorithmic executions performed can include for example a processing of user specified input for enabling the gathering retrieving of route or other experience information from the various context data sources . Another execution can include a processing of input for generating one or more suggested and or optimal routes such as based on one or more calculated routes and recorded routes for example according to exemplary embodiments. It is noted that the executions for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments can be performed in connection with or independent of one or more processing techniques of the mapping service or mapping application of the route mapping application module on the UE as well as can be performed at least in part by the UE for example. It is noted that the origin and destination inputs can be one of the various POIs returned pursuant to a route request along with various other locations objects venues landmarks etc. for example.

As shown in the system comprises one or more user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UEs having connectivity to or communication with the mapping service platform a geographic database the route determination platform and the context data sources via a communication network such as through one or more of wireless cable or wired or satellite communications or combinations thereof for example. The UEs also have connectivity to the route determination platform that can provide mapping and or location based services in relation to personalized route determination. In one embodiment the route determination platform in conjunction with the geographic database as well as in conjunction with the context data sources can interact with the UEs to provide mapping information or user generated context or preference information for determination or one or more personalized routes or route segments according to exemplary embodiments. Also according to exemplary embodiments as described the UEs such as a mobile phone can perform and include the functions modules and storage of the route determination platform . And as such the route determination platform according to exemplary embodiments can be onboard the UEs for example. Where the route determination platform is effectively onboard the UEs such as being associated with or incorporated into the route mapping application module connectivity with an external route determination platform would typically not be needed or required according to exemplary embodiments for example.

In one embodiment the UEs can contain one or more route mapping application modules that can include one or more mapping location based applications as can be used at least in part for calculated and recorded route information as well as filtering and context information for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments according to exemplary embodiments. The mapping location based applications of the route mapping application module modules can enable the UEs to access mapping information recorded route information or user preference context information for example determined or provided by the system and subsequently provisioned by the mapping service such as in conjunction with the geographic database . By way of example the mapping service platform together with the geographic database as well as the route determination platform and context data sources can exist independently or within a cloud computing and or cloud storage platform for example according to exemplary embodiments.

As discussed the system comprises a user equipment UE having connectivity to the route determination platform via a communication network and to other components of the system . However as described where the route determination platform is effectively onboard or included in the UEs such as associated with or incorporated into the route mapping application module connectivity with an external route determination platform would typically not be needed or required according to exemplary embodiments for example. By way of example the communication network of system can includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network can be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network can be for example a cellular network and can employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UEs can be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UEs the mapping service platform and associated geographic database the route determination platform and the context data sources communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs the mapping service platform and associated geographic database the route determination platform and the context data sources can interact according to a client server model for example. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process can also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

In exemplary embodiments the road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets or paths as can be used in the calculated route or recorded route information for determination of one or more personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records . The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively the geographic database can contain path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data for example.

The road link segments and nodes can be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The geographic database can include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records . The geographic database can also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data can be part of the POI data or can be associated with POIs or POI data records such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city . In addition the geographic database can include data about location based events and their respective locations in the event data records . By way of example the location based events can include any type of event that is associated with a particular location including for instance traffic accidents construction public gatherings etc. as can be used as context information for personalized route determination according to exemplary embodiments.

The geographic database can be maintained by the content provider in association with the mapping service platform e.g. a map developer . The map developer can collects geographic data to generate and enhance the geographic database . There can be different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways can include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the map developer can employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about them for example. Also remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography can be used.

The geographic database can be a master geographic database stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example the master geographic database or data in the master geographic database can be in an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database can be compiled into a delivery format such as a geographic data files GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats can be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases which can be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a platform specification format PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device such as by a UE for example. The navigation related functions can correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases can be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer can perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

As mentioned above the geographic database can be a master geographic database but in alternate embodiments the geographic database can represent a compiled navigation database that can be used in or with end user devices e.g. UEs to provided navigation related functions. For example the geographic database can be used with the end user device to provide an end user with navigation features. In such a case the geographic database can be downloaded or stored on the end user device UE such as in the route mapping application module or the end user device UE can access the geographic database through a wireless or wired connection such as via a server and or the communication network for example.

In one embodiment the end user device or UE can be an in vehicle navigation system a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device a cellular telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a watch a camera a computer and or other device that can perform navigation related functions such as digital routing and map display. In one embodiment the navigation device UE can be a cellular telephone. An end user can use the device UE for navigation functions such as guidance and map display for example and for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments based on one or more calculated and recorded routes according to exemplary embodiments.

In addition the route mapping application module can access context profile data regarding one or more users as described as can be used for filtering in determination of the personalized routes from a context profile data storage database . The route mapping application module also can maintain one or more recorded route experience data storage database for storing previously recorded routes or route segments of a user or users for determining various of the candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments according to exemplary embodiments.

In one embodiment the update module can update user identification information associated with a user or users of the UE and can also authenticate users and user devices UE such as for interaction with the route determination platform or module for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments. By way of example the update module can receives a request such as from a user of the UE through the input out communication module to generate mapping information based on one or more inputs provided by a mapping application such as can be stored in the map module or can be obtained from the mapping service and associated geographic database for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments according to exemplary embodiments. The filtering criteria in a process for generation of the one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments can include a specification of data or data sources for context information as can be obtained from the context profile data storage database as well as can include various preferences and settings information for one or more users of user devices UE including a preferred travel mode relationship type default origin and destination etc. for example. Also recorded routes and route preferences as can be used in the determination of the personalized routes and personalized route segments for one or more users of user devices UE can be stored in the recorded route experience data storage database for example. These preferences and settings can be referenced to a specific user of a UE or a specific user device UE or combination thereof for example.

The update module can also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user or host such as in conjunction with a subscription or registration process with a provider of the route determination platform such as in relation to a personalized route or personalized route segment determination process according to exemplary embodiments. The login name and or user identification value can be received as an input provided by the user from UE via a graphical user interface and as can be provided to the route determination platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module through the input output communication module . The input output communication module can enable communication of the route application mapping module with other components of the user device UE as well as with other components of the system such as the route determination platform for example. The authentication or user identification process can also be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier such as for communication of the user device UE with other components of the system such as the route determination platform .

In one embodiment the update module or input output communication module can provides input to the processor module in relation to determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments. The processor module can determine one or more inputs required for enabling execution of processes for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments including for example retrieving map information from the map module recorded route information from the recorded route experience data storage database or context profile data as can be used for filtering from the context profile data storage database . The processor module can provide information or receive information on the recorded routes from the recorded route experience data storage database and the desired one or more beginning and ending points for the to be determined personalized routes or personalized route segments such as received from the input output communication module or from the user interface module to the route integration module . The route integration module can also receive map information from the map module for determination of the recorded and calculated routes.

The route integration module can alone or in conjunction with the processor integrate recorded routes having common endpoints with the desired one or more beginning and ending points for determination of candidate routes or candidate route segments. The route integration module can enable the generated routing information to be integrated for use with the mapping application of the route mapping application module or the mapping service including the executing of various application programming interfaces APIs required of the mapping application for example. The processor can alone or in or in conjunction with the route integration module determine candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments and one or more calculated routes or calculated route segments and apply any filtering criterion or criteria to determine the one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments according to exemplary embodiments. The filtering criterion or criteria can include for example one or more of age of the recorded route the frequency of travel of the recorded route or the context of the at least one recorded route such as based on the recorded route including or meeting context information criteria according to exemplary embodiments.

The route mapping application module such as by the processor can also obtain recorded route route preference mapping geographic and context information from other components of the system for the personalized route or personalized route segment determination such as though the input output communication module or in conjunction with user interface module . Exemplary sources in the system for providing recorded route route preference mapping geographic and context information can be obtained such as from the route determination platform the mapping service and associated geographic database or from the context data sources such as via the communication network for example. The input output communication module can relay information and data from and to components of the system and from and to the processor module which can use the received data and information in the determination of the personalized routes or personalized route segments as described for example.

Also according to exemplary embodiments the determination of the personalized routes or personalized route segments can be determined by the UE alone or in conjunction with various components of the system such as by or in conjunction with the route determination platform with the route determination platform receiving information as described from the user device UE and from other components of the system such as the mapping service and associated geographic database or from context data sources such as via the communication network for example.

In addition to retrieving recorded route experience information and context information the processor is configured to generate personalized route information based on user input conditions or criteria such as user route preferences or point of interest data for example such as received from the user interface module through the update module from the input output communication module . Such user input criteria or conditions can include for example one or more experience types returned theme data corresponding to the experience types user route preferences select experience information the desired origin or origins or beginning points intermediate destinations or intermediate ending points the destination or ending points or a combination thereof or other criteria or conditions for example.

Routing information as generated by the processor can include one or more instructions for guiding the user from or to various points of interest POIs along the determined personalized routes or personalized route segments such as in relation to corresponding one or more filtering criteria. In addition the processor such as in conjunction with the map module or the route integration module can generate mapping information for visually depicting the routing information such as for the personalized routes or personalized route segments as well as for the calculated routes calculated route segments recorded routes or recorded route segments as juxtaposed against geographic data or in relation to POIs such as for presentation on a display of a user device such as on a display of UE for example according to exemplary embodiments.

Still further the processor can be configured to process metadata associated with any experience information maintained by the various data sources such as can be used in conjunction with filtering criteria. The metadata can be interpreted by the processor to determine contextual data associated with the one or more user preferences or POIs for example. For example timestamp information related to recorded route information can be interpreted by the processor for determining the most relevant up to date recorded routes or recorded route preferences such as can be correlated with a restaurant as a point of interest along a personalized route or personalized route segment or as an ending point of a personalized route or personalized route segment for example. By determining the contextual data older recorded routes or older recorded route segments such as to the restaurant can be avoided for retrieval while those with a more recent timestamp can be retrieved according to exemplary embodiments.

In yet another embodiment the processor in conjunction with the context profile data storage database can gather point of interest data determined to relate to the personalized routing request. This can includes generating a correlation between the POIs and experience information as well as enabling determining of POIs in connection with a given mapping application or service for example. In addition the processor can be configured to process contextual information as monitored for the user one or more other users or various user devices UE associated therewith such as a user s cell phone personal computer or received from other components of the system for example. Depending on the context information one or more POIs can be added to or subtracted from a collection of POIs correlated with one or more desired or recorded routes for example.

It is noted in certain embodiments that the functions performed by the various components of the route mapping application module can be incorporated such as those of the processor and the route integration module for example. Furthermore the process of retrieving POI data or retrieving correlated experience information can be performed concurrently with the retrieval of recorded route information for example in the determination of the personalized routes or personalized route segments for example. Regardless of the implementation the processor and other components of the route mapping application module can employ any known data mining and exchange protocols languages and network methodologies for pulling from accessing or referencing information as stored either on the user device UE or on other components of the system for example. In addition the processor can interact with the user interface module to enable the pushing posting uploading or correlating of one or more data items to a data source such as in system for example.

Alternatively the processor and other components of the route mapping application module can operate in accordance with the defined data retrieval and or uploading technologies protocols and policies of the data source it is referencing i.e. upload or download features of a mapping service such as mapping service and associated geographical database or network platform service a data source such as route determination platform or context data sources of system for example.

In one embodiment the user interface module of the route mapping application module can enable presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting the routing information on a display of the user device UE for example. The user interface module can generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to operating system of the user devices UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives or route information. It is noted that the processor can also operate in connection with the user interface module or the input output communication module or other components of the route mapping application module as well as in conjunction with other components of the system as described to enable the generation of route information or messages for recommending one or more routes such as via the mapping application to users such as in response to filtering criteria or user preferences for example.

In addition the route determination platform or module can access context profile data regarding one or more users as described as can be used for filtering in determination of the personalized routes or personalized route segments from a context profile data storage database . The route mapping application platform or module also can maintain one or more recorded route experience data storage database for storing previously recorded routes of a user or users for determining various of the candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments according to exemplary embodiments.

In one embodiment the update module can update user identification information associated with a user or users of the UE and can also authenticate users and user devices UE such as for interaction with the route determination platform for determination of one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments. By way of example the update module can receives a request such as from a user of the UE through the input out communication module to generate mapping information based on one or more inputs provided by a mapping application such as can be stored in the map module or can be obtained from the mapping service and associated geographic database for determination of one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments according to exemplary embodiments. The filtering criteria in a process for generation of the one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments can include a specification of data or data sources for context information as can be obtained from the context profile data storage database as well as can include various preferences and settings information for one or more users or user devices UE including a preferred travel mode relationship type default origin and destination etc. for example. Also recorded routes recorded route segments and route preferences as can be used in the determination of the personalized routes and personalized route segments for one or more users or user devices UE can be stored in the recorded route experience data storage database for example. These preferences and settings can be referenced to a specific user or users of a UE or a specific user device or user devices UE or combination thereof for example.

The update module can also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user or UE or host such as in conjunction with a subscription or registration process with a provider of the route determination platform such as in relation to a personalized route or personalized route segment determination process according to exemplary embodiments. The login name and or user identification value can be received as an input provided by the user from UE via a graphical user interface and as can be provided to the route determination platform e.g. as enabled by the interface module through the input output communication module . The input output communication module can enable communication with the route application mapping module or with other components of the user device UE as well as with other components of the system such as the mapping service and associated geographic database or context data sources via the communication network for example. The authentication or user identification process can also be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier such as for communication of the user device UE with other components of the system with the route determination platform for example.

In one embodiment the update module or input output communication module can provides input to the processor module in relation to determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments. The processor module can determine one or more inputs required for enabling execution of processes for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments including for example retrieving map information from the map module recorded route information from the recorded route experience data storage database or context profile data as can be used for filtering from the context profile data storage database . The processor module can provide and receive information on the recorded routes and recorded route segments from the recorded route experience data storage database and the desired one or more beginning and ending points for the to be determined personalized routes or personalized route segments such as received from the input output communication module or from the interface module to the route integration module . The route integration module can also receive map information from the map module for determination of the recorded routes and recorded route segments and the calculated routes and calculated route segments for example.

The route integration module can alone or in conjunction with the processor integrate recorded routes or recorded route segments having common endpoints with the desired one or more beginning and ending points for determination of candidate routes or candidate route segments for user devices UE . The route integration module can enable the generated routing information to be integrated for use with the mapping application of the route mapping application module or the mapping service including the executing of various application programming interfaces APIs required of the mapping application for example. The processor can alone or in or in conjunction with the route integration module determine one or more candidate recorded routes and candidate recorded route segments and one or more calculated routes and calculated route segments and apply any filtering criterion or criteria to determine the one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments according to exemplary embodiments. The filtering criterion or criteria can include for example one or more of age of the recorded route or recorded route segment the frequency of travel of the recorded route or recorded route segment or the context of the at least one recorded route or recorded route segment such as based on the recorded route or recorded route segment including or meeting context information criteria according to exemplary embodiments.

The route determination platform such as by the processor can also obtain recorded route route preference mapping geographic and context information from other components of the system for the personalized route or personalized route segment determination such as though the input output communication module or in conjunction with interface module . Exemplary sources in the system for providing recorded route route preference mapping geographic and context information can be obtained such as from the route mapping application module the mapping service and associated geographic database or from the context data sources such as via the communication network for example. The input output communication module can relay information and data from and to components of the system and from and to the processor module which can use the received data and information in the determination of the personalized routes or personalized route segments as described for example.

Also according to exemplary embodiments the determination of the personalized routes or personalized route segments can be determined by the route determination platform alone or in conjunction with various components of the system such by or in conjunction with the user devices UE with the route determination platform receiving routing or context information or route determinations as described from the user device UE and from other components of the system such as the mapping service and associated geographic database or from context data sources such as via the communication network for example.

In addition to retrieving recorded route experience information and context information the processor is configured to generate personalized route information based on user input conditions or criteria such as user route preferences or point of interest data for example such as received from the user devices UE by or through the interface module through the update module from the input output communication module for example. Such user input criteria or conditions can include for example one or more experience types returned theme data corresponding to the experience types user route preferences select experience information the desired origin or origins or beginning points intermediate destinations or intermediate ending points the destination or destinations or ending points or a combination thereof or other criteria or conditions for example.

Routing information as generated by the processor can include one or more instructions for guiding the user from various points of interest POIs along the determined personalized routes or personalized route segments such as in relation to corresponding one or more filtering criteria. In addition the processor such as in conjunction with the map module or the route integration module can generate mapping information for visually depicting the routing information such as for the personalized routes or personalized route segments as well as for the calculated routes calculated route segments recorded routes or recorded route segments as juxtaposed against geographic data or in relation to POIs such as for presentation on a display of a user device such as on a display of UE for example according to exemplary embodiments.

Still further the processor can be configured to process metadata associated with any experience information maintained by the various data sources such as can be used in conjunction with filtering criteria. The metadata can be interpreted by the processor to determine contextual data associated with the one or more user preferences or POIs for example. For example timestamp information related to recorded route information can be interpreted by the processor for determining the most relevant up to date recorded routes or recorded route preferences such as can be correlated with a restaurant as a point of interest along a personalized route or personalized route segment or as ending point of a route or route segment for example. By determining the contextual data older recorded routes or older recorded route segments such as to the restaurant can be avoided for retrieval while those with a more recent timestamp are retrieved accordingly according to exemplary embodiments.

In yet another embodiment the processor in conjunction with the context profile data storage database can gather point of interest data determined to relate to the personalized routing request. This can includes generating a correlation between the POIs and experience information as well as enabling determining of POIs in connection with a given mapping application or service for example. In addition the processor can be configured to process contextual information as monitored for the user one or more other users or various user devices UE associated therewith such as a user s cell phone personal computer or received from other components of the system for example. Depending on the context information one or more POIs can be added to or subtracted from a collection of POIs correlated with one or more desired or recorded routes for example.

It is noted in certain embodiments that the functions performed by the various components of the route determination platform can be incorporated such as those of the processor and the route integration module for example. Furthermore the process of retrieving POI data or retrieving correlated experience information can be performed concurrently with the retrieval of recorded route information for example in the determination of the personalized routes or personalized route segments for example. Regardless of the implementation the processor and other components of the route determination platform can employ any known data mining and exchange protocols languages and network methodologies for pulling from accessing or referencing information as stored either on the user device UE or on other components of the system for example. In addition the processor can interact with the interface module to enable the pushing posting uploading or correlating of one or more data items to a data source such as in system for example.

Alternatively the processor and other components of the route determination platform can operate in accordance with the defined data retrieval and or uploading technologies protocols and policies of the data source it is referencing i.e. upload or download features of a mapping service such as mapping service and associated geographical database or a network platform service or a data source such as those of the context data sources of system for example.

In one embodiment the interface module of the route determination platform can enable presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting the routing information on a display of the user device UE for example. The interface module can generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to operating system of the user devices UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives or route information. It is noted that the processor can also operate in connection with the interface module or the input output communication module or other components of the route determination platform as well as in conjunction with other components of the system as described to enable the generation of route information or messages for recommending one or more routes such as via the mapping application to users of user devices UE such as in response to filtering criteria or user preferences for example.

The processes of will be discussed with reference to as well as . are diagrams of user or device interfaces such as displays as can be utilized in illustrating calculated and recorded routes are diagrams of user devices including device interfaces such as displays as can be utilized in illustrating calculated and recorded routes for generating one or more personalized travel routes and is a diagram of a user or device interface such as a display as can be utilized in illustrating calculated and recorded routes for generating a plurality of personalized travel routes or segments according to various exemplary embodiments.

Referring now to and as well as to there is described an exemplary process for generating one or more personalized travel routes based on calculated and recorded route information according to exemplary embodiments. illustrates a user device UE such as a cell phone or mobile phone for example. The user device also referred to as user device in has a user interface or display for displaying information to a user or on which a user can enter information such as graphical and route related information. The user device typically has various control touch surfaces or buttons such as directional controls A for locating or inputting information a home screen control B to illustrate a home screen on display and a phone activation control C to display an active screen to send and receive phone calls for example. The user device also includes various indicators A such as for signal strength or battery life or a current time or current date for example. Further the user device can have additional associated components such as a speaker B or a camera C for example.

Referring to to Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination determines at least one calculated route for a user the calculated route having a beginning point and an ending point. The beginning point can be determined by one or more navigation application programs based on a user device UE position such as determined in conjunction with a GPS. The ending point is typically the desired destination such as can be entered by a user or determined based on user criteria or context information for example. illustrates a calculated route having a beginning point indicated by an X and an ending point indicated by a circle 0 . In this regard for route calculation typically any available digital route planner can be employed such as an on board solution on a mobile phone or automotive environment as well as a sophisticated web service for route planning for example.

The process then proceeds to Step . At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination determines at least one recorded route having one or more common endpoints with the calculated route . illustrates a number of recorded routes and that have at least one common endpoint with the calculated route . In the illustrated example the at least one common endpoint shared by the calculated and recorded routes is the beginning point for example. In determining recorded routes commute routes typically are recorded routes that the user of a user device such as UE drives regularly. Recorded routes can be learned from recording user behavior or manually entered by the user as a recorded route as a user preference for example. The recorded routes such as commuter routes can also be stored on board the user device UE or on a server in the system for example.

The process then proceeds to Step . At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination determines to generate at least one intersection point between the at least one calculated route and the at least one recorded routes and having the at least one common endpoint . illustrates those of routes and that intersect with the at least one calculated route . As shown in the example of recorded route intersects with the calculated route at intersection point and recorded route intersects with calculated route at intersection point

The process then proceeds to Step. . At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination determines to combine one or more segments of the recorded route with one or more segments of the calculated route based at least in part on the at least one intersection point . In this regard the criterion based on the intersection point applied for example is choosing the intersection point that is closest to the destination or ending point . In this regard as illustrated in the example of the determined intersection point meeting this criterion is the intersection point where recorded route intersects with the calculated route . The one or more processors and memory such as of user device or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination determines to combine as illustrated in the route segment from recorded route from the beginning point to the intersection point with the route segment from calculated route from the intersection point to the destination or ending point .

The process then proceed to Step where one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a generation of at least one personalized route by causing at least in part a combination of the one or more segments from the recorded route and one or more segments from the calculated route to generate the personalized route based on the combined route segments and as illustrated in .

In Steps and for example one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a generation of at least one personalized route by connecting the recorded route to the calculated route by first cutting off the calculated route at the identified intersection point . In this regard the calculated route segment between the route start point and the intersection point is being removed. The result is only that route segment from the intersection point towards the route destination is retained from the calculated route in forming the personalized route and is also referred to as a RouteSegment e.g. RouteSegment for example.

Also the RouteSegment typically corresponds to that part or parts of the initially calculated route or calculated routes that can be used to build the final result or the one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments. Typically the RouteSegment is the part of the calculated route that lies behind the intersection point for example but can vary depending upon the user preference or criteria or context information for example. Also a private network typically can refer to the aggregate of all or a substantial portion of a user s recorded routes that have been recorded. Further a private network can correspond to that part or parts of the existing street network that a user is familiar with and the ways routes how a user is usually using it and can include context information and user profile or user route preference information for example.

Also in Steps and for example from the recorded routes and or recorded commutes on the other hand all recorded commutes or recorded routes are removed but the selected recorded commute for recorded route with the intersection point . From that recorded commute or recorded route only the piece or segment between the intersection and endpoint or commute destination of recorded route is removed which typically is not the same endpoint as endpoint for example. The result is only that piece of the recorded commute or recorded route between the route start point or beginning point and the intersection point is retained and is also referred to as the CommuteSegment e.g. CommuteSegment for example.

Further the CommuteSegment typically corresponds to that part of the user s recorded commutes or recorded routes that can be used to build the final result or the one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments for example. The CommuteSegment typically is the part or parts of the recorded route or routes that lie before the intersection point and typically start at the route start point for example but can be based on various user criteria or user preferences or context information for example. Also the intersection point can be any point in the recorded route that intersects with the calculated route the selected intersection point or intersection points can be based on various user criteria or user preferences or context information but typically is the last point in the calculated route where it intersects with any of those recorded routes or recorded commutes that have the same start point as the calculated route for example.

Further in Steps and the new route or new personalized route is being created by concatenating the geometry of the CommuteSegment and the RouteSegment becoming the generated personalized route also referred to as the ResultSegment e.g. ResultSegment geometry for example. The travel time estimate for each street of the ResultSegment can be built by copying the corresponding time estimates from the RouteSegment and copying the corresponding time recordings from the CommuteSegment per street . The overall estimated travel time can therefore correspond to the sum of the estimated travel time of the RouteSegment and the recorded travel time of the CommuteSegment for example.

Further the ResultSegment typically describes the final route result such as the generated one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments for example. Also the ResultSegment is typically what the user of the user device UE can see then on the display of the navigation device such as illustrated in for personalized route for example. The result can therefore be a personalized route that is half learned from the user and half calculated based on knowledge of the map data as can be in conjunction with a current traffic situation according to exemplary embodiments for example. The process then proceeds to End at Step to await return to Step .

Referring now to and as well as to there is described a further exemplary process for generating one or more personalized travel routes based on calculated and recorded route information according to exemplary embodiments. The process begins at Step where one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of at least one calculated route or calculated route segment. The determination of the calculated route or calculated route segment such as can be for a plurality of calculated routes or calculated route segments for a plurality of personalized routes or a plurality of personalized route segments is as described with respect to determining calculated route as illustrated in for example. In this regard illustrates a personalized route having a plurality of personalized route segments for example.

The process then proceeds to Step where one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of end points including one or more beginning points and ending points of the at least one calculated route or calculated route segment. The determination of the beginning and ending points of the at least one calculated route or calculated route segment such as for a plurality of calculated routes or a plurality of calculated route segments for a plurality of personalized routes or a plurality of personalized route segments is as described with respect to determining the beginning point and the ending point of the calculated route as illustrated in for example. In this regard illustrates a personalized route having a plurality of personalized route segments where each of the personalized route segments have a corresponding beginning point and ending point that can correspond to a calculated route segment for example. Also illustrates a plurality of streets or roads A N for the routes as well as various POIs for example.

As to Step for example the personalized route segments for the personalized route in includes the following determined beginning and ending points for the corresponding personalized route segments for example. Assuming the personalized route starts at a user s home for example the calculated route segment corresponding to personalized route segment would have a beginning point and an ending point such as at a gas station the user desires to stop on the personalized route to a final destination endpoint for the personalized route at endpoint for example. The calculated route segment corresponding to personalized route segment would have a beginning point and an ending point such as at a beverage or food establishment the user desires to stop on the personalized route for example. The calculated route segment corresponding to personalized route segment would have a beginning point and an ending point such as at a hotel or rest stop the user desires to stop on the personalized route . The calculated route segment corresponding to personalized route segment would have a beginning point and an ending point such as at a restaurant the user desires to stop on the personalized route the ending point also being the ending point for the personalized route for example.

From Step the process then proceeds to Step where one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of whether to filter to determine candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments. If it is determined not to filter the candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded routes segments the process proceeds to Step . However if at Step it is determined to filter the candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of whether to filter the candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments based on the age of the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment. If a determination is made not to filter at least one the candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment based on the age of the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment the process proceeds to Step . However if it is determined to filter the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment based on the age of the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a filtering of at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment by applying a filtering criteria based on age of the candidate recorded route or the candidate recorded route segment.

In this regard for example in applying the filtering criteria in addition to a filtering criteria based on age of the recorded route or the recorded route segment recentness of travel can override the frequency and distance factors as for example a commute driven constantly last week can be more important than a commute only driven one year ago. Also the filtering criteria can eliminate all recorded routes or recorded route segments older than a predetermined time period such as six months or a year from the date the filtering determination is made or from a travel date for example. Also in applying filtering criteria according to exemplary embodiments various weighted algorithm can be used for filtering such as to account for or weight age or frequency of the recorded routes or the recorded route segments the recorded route distance for the destination or ending point estimated time of arrival or other factors such as context information or criteria for example.

From Step the process proceeds to Step . At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of whether to filter the at least one candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments based on the frequency of using the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment. If a determination is made not to filter the at least one candidate recorded route or the candidate recorded route segment based on the frequency of using the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment the process proceeds to Step . However if it is determined to filter the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment based on the frequency of using the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a filtering of at least one candidate recorded route or candidate route segment by applying a filtering criteria based on the frequency of using the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment. In this regard for example in applying the filtering criteria frequency of the commute itself can override the distance factor as for example a commute driven 90 times could overrule a commute driven only twice. Also the filtering criteria can eliminate all candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments of less than a predetermined threshold frequency of travel such as less than a frequency of two or three times over a predetermined period of time such as measured from the date the filtering determination is made or from a travel date for example.

From Step the process proceeds to Step . At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of whether to filter the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment based on the context of the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment. If a determination is made not to filter at least one candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segment based on the context of the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment the process proceeds to Step . However if it is determined to filter the at least one the candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segment based on the context of the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a filtering of at least one candidate recorded route or candidate route segment by applying a filtering criteria based on the context of the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment. In this regard for example in applying the filtering criteria context filtering criteria can include for example as user preferences POIs an origin a destination a travel modality e.g. transport type a travel condition e.g. preferred arrival time preferred road type or other user specified criteria such as can be input by a user on user device UE or retrieved from a storage such as the context profile data storage databases or the recorded route experience data databases or or the context data sources or other storage in the system for example. Also for example a context filtering criterion among others can be a user preference that distance to the route destination can be a primary factor in context filtering criterion. Typically the frequency and the recentness of traveled routes can be important factors in the personalized route determination for example.

From Step the process proceeds to Step . At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination such as can be from the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment determined from one or more of the filtering Steps at least one candidate recorded route or candidate route segment that has one or more common endpoints with the one or more calculated routes or calculated route segments. In this regard illustrates a number of recorded routes and that have at least one common endpoint with the calculated route . In the illustrated example the at least one common endpoint shared by the calculated and recorded routes is the beginning point for example.

Also as to Step referring to the personalized route includes a plurality of the personalized route segments . Each of the personalized route segments for the personalized route can include a corresponding calculated route segment and at least one corresponding candidate recorded route segment as can be determined as previously described in relation to and discussed and illustrated as to for example. For example in the determined beginning and ending points for the corresponding personalized route segments for personalized route can correspond to common endpoints for the one or more of the corresponding calculated route segments or the corresponding recorded route segments for example. In this regard common endpoints for the corresponding calculated route segments and the corresponding recorded route segments can include for example point and point as to the personalized route segment point and point as to the personalized route segment point and point as to the personalized route segment and point and point as to the personalized route segment .

From Step the process proceeds to Step . At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of whether the common endpoints are determined as the beginning points of the at least one calculated route or calculated route segment. If it is not to be determined that the common endpoints are determined as the beginning points of the at least one calculated route or calculated route segment the process proceeds to Step . However if it is determined at Step that the common endpoints are determined as the beginning points of the at least one calculated route or calculated route segment the process proceeds to Step . Also if a common endpoint other than the beginning point of the at least one calculated route or calculated route segment is chosen the process as described herein as to for determination for the at least one personalized route or personalized route segment would be applied by treating the designated common point the same as the beginning point for such determination as discussed and described in relation to the process of for example according to exemplary embodiments.

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination to identify one or more candidate recorded routes or candidate route segments that include one or more beginning points of the one or more calculated routes or calculated route segments. In this regard illustrates a number of recorded routes and that have at least one common beginning point with the calculated route . In the illustrated example the at least one common beginning point shared by the calculated and recorded routes is the beginning point for example.

Also as to Step referring to the personalized route includes a plurality of the personalized route segments . Each of the personalized route segments for the personalized route can include a corresponding calculated route segment at least one corresponding candidate recorded route segment and a corresponding beginning point as can be determined as previously described in relation to and and discussed and illustrated as to for example. For example in the determined beginning points for the corresponding personalized route segments for personalized route can correspond to common beginning points for the one or more of the corresponding calculated route segments or the recorded route segments for example. In this regard the beginning points for the corresponding calculated route segments and the corresponding recorded route segments can include for example beginning point as to the personalized route segment beginning point as to the personalized route segment beginning point as to the personalized route segment and beginning point as to the personalized route segment . From Step the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of at least one candidate intersection points for the one or more calculated routes or calculated route segments with one or more of the determined candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments having either at least one common endpoint from Step or a common beginning point from Step . illustrates those of recorded routes and that intersect with the at least one calculated route and have a common end point such as beginning point . As shown in the example of recorded route intersects with the calculated route at intersection point and recorded route intersects with calculated route at intersection point for example.

As to Step each of the personalized route segments for the personalized route can include a corresponding calculated route segment and at least one corresponding candidate recorded route segment having a common endpoint such as a common beginning point such as beginning point as to the personalized route segment beginning point as to the personalized route segment beginning point as to the personalized route segment and beginning point as to the personalized route segment and one or more corresponding intersection points can be determined for the corresponding calculated route segments with the corresponding recorded route segments for the personalized route segments as previously described in relation to and and as discussed and illustrated as to for example. From Step the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination designation or selection of one or more candidate intersection points as determined from Step that intersect with the one or more calculated routes or calculated route segments at a latest point of the calculated routes or calculated route segments. In this regard as illustrated and determined in relation to the example of the determined intersection point meeting this criterion as being at the latest point of the calculated routes or calculated route segments is the intersection point where recorded route intersects with the calculated route . Also determining a latest intersection point or spot can include checking or determining for the at least one candidate recorded route or candidate route segment for every commute whether it intersects with the calculated route or calculated route segment at a point where both the calculated route or the calculated route segment and the commute recorded route or recorded route segment use the same street into the same direction at some point on the calculated route or calculated route segment as well as which is the intersection closest to the route destination for example.

As to Step each of the personalized route segments for the personalized route can include a corresponding candidate intersection point for each calculated route segment that intersects with the corresponding one or more candidate recorded routes or candidate recorded route segments at a latest point of the corresponding calculated routes or calculated route segments. Such candidate intersection points for the corresponding personalized route segments can be determined as previously described in relation to and and as discussed and illustrated as to for example. From Step the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination or designation of selected one or more of the identified candidate recorded route segments that include the corresponding selected one or more candidate intersection points as determined from Step as the selected one or more candidate recorded route segments for the corresponding personalized route segment. In this regard the one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination determines to select as illustrated and described in relation to the route segment from recorded route from the beginning point to the intersection point as the selected candidate route segment from the recorded route for forming a corresponding route segment of personalized route for example.

As to Step each of the personalized route segments for the personalized route can include a corresponding selected candidate route segment for each corresponding candidate recorded route or candidate recorded route segment that includes the corresponding selected at least one candidate intersection point as determined from Step for forming a corresponding route segment of personalized route . Such selected recorded route segments for the corresponding personalized route segments can be determined as previously described in relation to and and as discussed and illustrated as to for example. From Step the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination or generation of at least one personalized route or personalized route segment including at least one first route segment of the at least one designated selected recorded route segment from the corresponding common end point or corresponding common beginning point of the corresponding calculated route or calculated route segment with the corresponding designated selected recorded route segment to the corresponding selected intersection point as determined form Step and including at least one second route segment from the corresponding calculated route or calculated route segment from the corresponding selected candidate intersection point to the ending point of the corresponding calculated route or calculated route segment. In this regard the one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination determines to generate or combine as illustrated and described in relation to the route segment from recorded route from the beginning point to the intersection point with the route segment from calculated route from the intersection point to the destination or ending point for example.

As to Step each of the personalized route segments for the personalized route can be formed to include a corresponding at least one personalized route segment including a determination or generation of at least one corresponding personalized route segment including at least one corresponding first route segment of the at least one corresponding designated selected recorded route segment from the corresponding common end point or corresponding common beginning point of the corresponding calculated route or calculated route segment with the corresponding designated selected recorded route segment to the corresponding selected candidate intersection point as determined from Step and including at least corresponding one second route segment from the corresponding calculated route or calculated route segment from the corresponding selected candidate intersection point to the ending point of the corresponding calculated route or calculated route segment for forming a corresponding personalized route segment of personalized route . Such selected recorded route segments and calculated route segments for the corresponding first and second route segments for the corresponding personalized route segments can be determined as previously described in relation to and and as discussed and illustrated as to for example. From Step the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of whether a plurality of personalized route segments and corresponding calculated route segments are to be determined such as where the at least one personalized route includes a plurality of personalized route segments and the at least one calculated route includes a plurality of calculated route segments for example. If a plurality of personalized route segments or a plurality of calculated route segments is not to be determined the process proceeds to End at Step to await return to Step . However if at Step a plurality of personalized route segments or a plurality of calculated route segments is to be determined the process proceeds to Step .

At Step one or more processors and memory such as of user device UE or or of system such as of route mapping application module or the route determination platform individually or in combination causes at least in part a determination of whether a personalized route segment has been generated for each of the plurality of calculated route segments such as where the generation of the at least one personalized route includes causing at least in part for each personalized route segment a combination of one or more segments of the at least one recorded route with the corresponding calculated route segment based at least in part on the at least one intersection point between the calculated route segment and at least one recorded route segment for example. If a personalized route segment has been generated for each of the plurality of calculated route segments the process proceeds to End at Step to await return to Step . However if a personalized route segment has not been generated for each of the plurality of calculated route segments the process proceeds to Step and proceeds as previously described.

As can be seen from the above discussion in relation to the methods and apparatus according to exemplary embodiments can provide a navigation solution that is typically relatively simple to implement and can enhance the learning effect in relation to being relatively immediate as to application and relatively easy for the user of a user device UE to comprehend for implementing navigation such as based on user experience from a user s recorded routes for example and as can be influenced by user preferences or context as described. Also the exemplary algorithms processes and apparatus as described in the disclosure herein such as in relation to the exemplary embodiments that are not known in the art can with the knowledge of the disclosure herein be combined or incorporated with and implemented in conjunction with existing route planners or navigation devices programs or applications such as by one skilled in the art for example.

In this regard for example the way a typical digital map works and is constructed can be applied in route calculation according to exemplary embodiments. For example a street or route can be a digital element on its own that can have a length that can have a defined storage as well as can have a defined end point and a defined time to travel. In route determination the methods processes and apparatus as described in relation to exemplary embodiments can be applied to multiple lists of such types of digital elements to determine the various route segments and intersection points such as by finding corresponding elements in two or more lists for example.

Also the methods apparatus and processes described herein in relation to the exemplary embodiments can enhance and facilitate the ability of a user of a user device UE for navigation to promote locating a route that is familiar or comfortable to a user such as based on a user s commuting patterns irrespective of whether it is the fastest route or a route to avoid traffic such as can be based on other factors for user preferences such as based on a user s travel history for example.

Also according to exemplary embodiments the methods processes and apparatus as described in relation to in determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments can dynamically adjust to re determine a personalized route or personalized route segment such as where the user while traveling desires to bypass change or add one or more route destinations or endpoints for example.

The processes described herein for generating one or more personalized routes for travel based on calculated and recorded route experience information or context information can be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein can be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing or determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments as described herein according to exemplary embodiments. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example can be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code can also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors can be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions such as for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments as described herein according to exemplary embodiments. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments as described herein according to exemplary embodiments is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user. Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system can perform all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device can be omitted for example.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such can perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface can be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface can be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links can also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals which carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface can enable connection to the communication network for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments as described herein according to exemplary embodiments.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link can provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code can be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC can be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code can be executed by processor as it is received or can be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system can obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave for example.

Various forms of computer readable media can be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data can initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem for example. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of and from and to the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor can include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor can include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor can also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein can include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips for example.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip can include merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments as described herein according to exemplary embodiments. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments as described herein according to exemplary embodiments. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The MCU routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof for example.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator typically generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals can be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which can be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU for example.

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal such as for determining one or more personalized routes or personalized route segments as described herein according to exemplary embodiments. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the mobile terminal . The DSP can depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device cam be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card can carry for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card typically also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

