---

title: Image match for featureless objects
abstract: Object identification through image matching can utilize ratio and other data to accurately identify objects having relatively few feature points otherwise useful for identifying objects. An initial image analysis attempts to locate a “scalar” in the image, such as may include a label, text, icon, or other identifier that can help to narrow a classification of the search, as well as to provide a frame of reference for relative measurements obtained from the image. By comparing the ratios of dimensions of the scalar with other dimensions of the object, it is possible to discriminate between objects containing that scalar in a way that is relatively robust to changes in viewpoint. A ratio signature can be generated for an object for use in matching, while in other embodiments a classification can identify priority ratios that can be used to more accurately identify objects in that classification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390315&OS=09390315&RS=09390315
owner: A9.com, Inc.
number: 09390315
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150625
---
Users are increasingly utilizing electronic devices to obtain various types of information. For example a user wanting to obtain information about an object of interest can capture an image of the object and request or cause that image to be analyzed to attempt to locate information for a matching object. An image analysis and matching process typically looks for features of an object represented in an image and performs a matching process whereby an attempt is made to locate an object with features that are determined to sufficiently match those of the captured image. It can be difficult to obtain accurate results however for objects that have a relatively low number of features that enable those objects to be accurately identified. Further there can be various objects that are relatively similar such that even if the type of object can be identified it can be difficult to determine the correct version size or model.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure can overcome one or more of the above referenced and other deficiencies in conventional approaches to identifying various types of objects using an electronic device. In particular various embodiments utilize data such as measurement ratio and color consistency data to attempt to improve recognition and identification of featureless object s represented in images where those objects may not have enough recognizable features from at least an image recognition standpoint to be accurately recognized using an object recognition feature matching or other such algorithm. In at least some embodiments a user can capture an image or video of an object using a camera of a portable computing device. The user can upload the image to a matching service configured to identify the object and provide the user with information about that object such as a description pricing and availability and other such information. In some instances the image the user provides can be pre processed on the computing device such that only certain data is uploaded for matching.

In at least some embodiments a user will request or cause an image to be captured that includes a representation of an object of interest such as a product to be identified. This image can be captured by the user positioning a camera of a computing device such that the object is within a field of view of the camera and then providing input to cause the image to be captured. In order to identify the object a feature detection process or other such process can attempt to determine salient points or feature points in the image such as may correspond to corners and edges in the image. These features and their relative locations can be compared against a data store or other collection of images and or image data to attempt to find data for an object that matches the object of interest represented in the image. A match can correspond to sets of feature points that are determined to correspond in number and relative position between an image of an object of interest or query image and a stored image of an object or matching image within a specified threshold or level of similarly etc. In some instances the number of feature points identified can be insufficient to identify the object or find a match with a minimum level of confidence or certainty. For example images of objects such as shirts and couches may not have enough features to identify them using conventional processing.

Since some objects will not have a sufficient set of feature points to enable accurate recognition or identification approaches in accordance with various embodiments can take advantage of the fact that such featureless objects typically possess characteristics in different forms even though they lack discriminative image features. Such intrinsic characteristics can include certain measurements and their ratios as well as color consistencies in specific regions of the objects etc. For example certain models or brands might have different aspect ratios or dimensions might have differently sized logos or text might have different relative placements or sizes of elements of the object etc. By analyzing the ratios of an object in an image in particular with respect to the recognized scalar elements such as logos or labels a determination can be made as to which model version or specific object is represented. The presence of the scalar element if identified can help to narrow the search space by identifying a category or classification of objects against which to match the ratio data such as all objects known to include that particular logo etc. The classification in some embodiments can help to identify important ratios to examine or at least weightings to apply to different ratios. In other embodiments a ratio signature can be generated by sampling several different ratios and aggregating those into a range average histogram or other such measure and then comparing that against signatures in the classification. Various other measures can assist as well such as to compare color regions or other aspects for consistency as two objects might be of similar shape other than certain regions of color such that the color analysis can help to identify the precise object being identified.

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

In this example a camera on the device captures image information e.g. still or video including the object of interest and at least a portion of the image is displayed on a display screen of the computing device. At least a portion of the image information can be analyzed and upon a match being located identifying information can be displayed back to the user via the display screen of the computing device . The portion of the image to be analyzed can be indicated manually such as by a user pointing to the object on the screen drawing a bounding box around the object or centering the object in the field of view. In other embodiments one or more image analysis algorithms can attempt to locate one or more objects in an image to be analyzed. In some embodiments a user can manually request or cause image information to be analyzed while in other embodiments the image information can be analyzed automatically either on the device or by streaming scene data to a remote system or service as discussed later herein.

The related information as discussed elsewhere herein can include any information related to an object item product or other element that is matched within at least a level of confidence to the image data using one or more matching or identifying algorithms or other such approaches. These can include for example image recognition algorithms feature recognition algorithms facial recognition algorithms audio pattern recognition algorithms or any other such approaches or techniques. In some embodiments the type of information displayed or otherwise conveyed can depend at least in part upon the type of object located or matched. For example a located product might include pricing and availability information while a located place might contain address data. For facial recognition the information might include name title and contact information. Various other types of information can be displayed as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

In the example situation of the object represented in the captured image has many features that enable it to be accurately matched against a product image database. As can be determined from the image of the object illustrated in there can be many feature points or other points features or relationships enabling the object to be successfully mapped against a database of images or image data. For example the packaging includes a name of the object and a picture of the object contained within the packaging. In this case the model car has many features enabling it to be matched against images of that type of car with the wording on the box enabling the object to be identified. The packaging might even include words such as model kit or a serial number or bar code that enable this object to be accurately identified using a process such as feature detection and image matching.

It might be the case however that there may not be a sufficient number of features to adequately identify an object. In an extreme example a white cue ball might have no features or points usable for conventional image matching or feature analysis. There might be some instances where an object might have a small number of feature points or at least a number of feature points that is insufficient to adequately identify the object with at least a minimum amount of certainty or confidence etc. illustrates one example device that can be identified using approaches in accordance with the various embodiments. In this example the device is a portable electronic device such as a smartphone tablet computer portable media player or other such device. The device casing in this example is a single color such as white or black with rounded corners such that there are very few conventional points or features to be used for identifying the object. A logo is present on the device which can include a sufficient number of features identified from a captured image to accurately identify the logo. Unfortunately if the logo is present on similar cases for the tablets media players smartphones and other such devices the identification process might only be able to at best match the image to image data for a set of products containing that logo on a similar case. Further the logo and few feature points can be insufficient to identify versions of a type of device even if the versions had different dimensions or other such aspects.

The problem can be exacerbated for objects such as apparel items and other items that are deformable and can have different shapes represented in different images based on who is wearing the item how the item is displayed etc. illustrates an example object in this case a shirt which can have relatively few feature points determinable for purposes of identifying the shirt. For example the shirt might be a plain white shirt with no recognizable pattern such that the feature points might only be determinable for the collar sleeves buttons or other such features which might be sufficient to identify the object as a shirt or even a white shirt but may not be sufficient to narrow down which type or brand of shirt is represented as well as other aspects such as the size or style. Even if there is a pattern the deformability of the cloth of the shirt can make it difficult to identify the object with a sufficient or minimum level of confidence.

Accordingly approaches in accordance with various embodiments attempt to use detectable aspects such as distance ratios to attempt to recognize and or identify one or more objects represented in a captured image set of images or video etc. In accordance with some embodiments an attempt can be made to identify or recognize at least one portion of the image that can be used as a scalar element or reference distance or size that can be used as a reference for purposes of determining size or relative size in an image captured by a monocular or other camera or set of cameras . Based at least in part upon the scalar element an attempt can be made to identify a class set or group of objects that correspond to the scalar element. This can include for example products that contain a recognized logo. Such an approach can be utilized to reduce the search space thus reducing the amount of time and resources needed for the match or identification process. Further using the scalar element a set of ratios can be determined that can be used to identify the object. A ratio can include for example the distance between two features of the scalar element with respect to the distance between two feature points of the overall object. In other embodiments an overall pattern of ratios between feature distances can be used to attempt to recognize an object. For example a set of feature points can be identified using a specified algorithm such that similar feature points should be identified for various images of that object if processed using that algorithm. The ratios of differences between points thus should be similar for each image. A histogram distribution or other set of ratio data then can be analyzed to attempt to identify the object by matching the histogram with ratio histogram data for a corresponding object.

An example of utilizing such a process to identify objects is presented with respect to . In this example two images are captured with each image including a representation of a respective computing device with a similar logo. For each image feature points can be identified or another process used to identify the logo present on each device as illustrated in . In some embodiments a logo match process might be used among other such options. The recognition of the logo can enable a number of different processes to be performed. For example the recognition of a logo on the object can enable an identification process to identify a set of candidate objects for matching. In the case of a specific logo information for that logo might be used to identify the set of objects for which matching information is available that correspond to that logo or otherwise have that logo visible somewhere on the object.

As mentioned there might be multiple types and or versions of objects that might include such a logo. For example the device of might correspond to a smartphone while the device of might correspond to a tablet computer or a different version of the smartphone. For most products the size of the logo will not be directly proportional to the size of the device such that the width of the logo is not always the same percentage of the width of the device and that the height of the logo is not always the same percentage of the height of the device etc. Unless all products have the same aspect ratio such requirements would result in logos that are stretched differently between different devices which is typically not the case. Thus by examining specific ratios for certain types of devices the ratios can assist with identification of at least the type of product. For example compare the heights a a and widths b and b between . As illustrated the ratios of the heights and widths of the logos with respect to the sides of the device casing are different between the two devices . Thus by recognizing the logo and determining the appropriate ratios an identification process can identify the type of object without a substantial number of feature points present and or located. Various other ratios can be analyzed as well as may relate to the size or location of a camera a speaker or a port as well as the radius of curvature of the device or other such aspects.

As mentioned the ability to recognize a logo or other such identifier can enable specific at least relative measurement ratios to be determined such as height and width maximum and minimum edge distances and the like. In other embodiments specific ratios are not used and instead a set of ratios is determined. For example if the distance from the logo to the edges of the respective device was determined and compared against the dimensions of the logo the average ratio would be larger for the tablet than for the smartphone and assuming a significant number of data points the average ratio should converge to a specific number for the smartphone and a different number for the tablet. Various other ratios and analyses can be used as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

As mentioned being able to determine something about the object represented in an image can help to narrow the search space and or determine the most useful ratios to determine and or compare. For example in the situation illustrated in there may be sufficient feature points available in an entire image to determine that the object represented is a shirt even though the number and arrangement of feature points may provide little other guidance. One may use other techniques to verify that the object is a shirt as well such as by using CNN classifiers or other machine learning type techniques. By determining that the object is a shirt however the recognition process can look for specific features and ratios that can be helpful in identifying the particular shirt. For example the feature detection process can be used in an information retrieval technique or machine learning technique that can provide prior data about shirts or other objects to indicate that the item generally is a button down shirt based upon the relative arrangement of the feature points or using another such approach . For such a category of objects there can be specific ratios that are useful in identifying the object. For example the diameter of the buttons on a specific type of shirt might have a specific ratio with respect to the distance between buttons the lengths of the button holes the width of the front placket the width of the thread used to make the shirt and or other such locations or dimensions. If there is a pattern the ratio can be between the diameter and or spacing of the buttons with respect to dimensions of the pattern or other such aspects. As mentioned previously the process can look to a specific ratio specific set of ratios or sampling of ratios to attempt to match the shirt in the image with image dimension and or ratio data for shirts in a data store or other such location.

Similarly in a soda bottle is illustrated where the general type of object can be determined from feature point extraction from a machine learning or information retrieval type approach or another such process and the brand of object can be determined by recognizing a logo on the bottle. In at least some embodiments the desired object can be localized before extracting ratios. One may use the estimate of user camera viewpoint and the orientation of the object before extracting the ratios. For example one can localize the side that is the top to find the ratios concerning the bottle caps shirt necks etc. Similar approaches can be used for logos of other such elements. Using the logo as a scalar element particular dimensions can be identified for ratio analysis for differentiating between different types of bottles. Similarly a sampling of ratios can be performed in order to gather a distribution or average ratio for example which can be used to identify the appropriate type of bottle as discussed above. In some instances the bottle shape might vary sufficiently such that the feature point extraction might be able to accurately determine the type of object while in other instances it may be necessary to look at ratios such as bottle height cap height label width and other such measurements with respect to a dimension of the logo or other such scalar element.

In some embodiments there may be no logo text or other identifier visible in the image that can enable a narrowing down of product space and or ratios to examine. For example in the image includes a representation of the side of a smartphone where the only features visible are the shape of the side of the case and the shape location and relative size of a button on that side of the device. For such an image there may be only a few feature points detectable. Thus there may be only a handful of ratios available. For example there are ratios between the length and height of the button versus those of the device length and width of the button versus distance to the respective edge of the device and so on. Performing a sampling of the ratios may generate a distinct signature however as there will be a small set of ratios of very specific values which can help to compare the image against image data stored for certain items.

In at least some embodiments object identification is performed at least in part by uploading streaming or otherwise transferring an image video segment and or other electronic data to a system or service operable to find one or more potential matches for that data and provide related information for those potential matches. In some embodiments at least a portion of the processing or pre processing of the data can be performed on the device before transfer as known in the art for image matching and other such purposes. In still other embodiments some or all of the matching can be performed on the device itself among other such options. illustrates an example environment in which such information can be located and transferred in accordance with various embodiments. In this example a user is able to capture image information using at least one computing device . For example a user can request or cause a device to capture image and or video information around the device and can send at least a portion of that information across at least one appropriate network to attempt to obtain information for one or more objects within a detectable vicinity of the device. In some embodiments a user can also indicate an image of an object not obtained by the user or can provide information that can otherwise be used to identify an object. The network can be any appropriate network such as may include the Internet a local area network LAN a cellular network and the like. The request can be sent to an appropriate content provider as may provide one or more services systems or applications for processing such requests. The information can be sent by streaming or otherwise transmitting data as soon as it is obtained and or ready for transmission such as for video data or can be sent in specific communications.

In this example a request is received to a network interface layer of the content provider system . The network interface layer can include any appropriate components known or used to receive requests from across a network such as may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs or other such interfaces for receiving such requests. The network interface layer might be owned and operated by the provider or leveraged by the provider as part of a shared resource or cloud offering. The network interface layer can receive and analyze the request and cause at least a portion of the information in the request to be directed to an appropriate system or service such as an information service . An information service in this example includes components operable to receive electronic data about an object analyze the data using business logic and return information relating to that object or related objects. For example an information service can receive information including one or more images or portions of an image or image data of an object near a device and can cause information to be sent to at least one identification service or system that is operable to attempt to match information for the image data. Various other services and combinations of services can be utilized as well within the scope of different embodiments. In at least some embodiments an identification service will process the received data such as to extract points of interest features and or ratios of feature distances in a captured image for example then compare the processed data against data stored in a matching data store or other such location. The data in the matching data store might be indexed and or processed to facilitate with matching as known for such purposes. For example the data store might include information for features in an image instead of a copy of the image itself which can increase the speed and lower the processing requirements of the matching. The data store might also include ratio data ratio signatures or other such data as discussed herein. This can also include a bank of ratios for example where the ratio data can be analyzed over a common denominator for consistency or normalization. The denominator can be any appropriate value such as a distance between feature points. While there does not have to be one specific denominator there can be restrictions on the values that can be used as a denominator in at least some embodiments.

The information service can receive information from each contacted identification service as to whether one or more matches could be found and can receive any appropriate information for a located potential match. The information from each identification service can be analyzed and or processed by one or more applications of the information service such as to determine data useful in obtaining information for each of the potential matches to provide to the user. For example an information service might receive product identifiers or other types of data from the identification service s in response to a potential match being detected and might process that data to be provided to a service such as an information aggregator service that is capable of locating descriptions and or other content related to the located potential matches.

In at least some embodiments an information aggregator service might be associated with an entity that provides an electronic marketplace or otherwise provides items or content for consumption e.g. purchase rent lease or download by various customers. Although products and electronic commerce are presented in this and other examples presented it should be understood that these are merely examples and that approaches presented in the present disclosure can relate to any appropriate types of elements or information as discussed and suggested elsewhere herein. In such an instance the information aggregator service can utilize the aggregated data from the information service to attempt to locate products in a product data store or other such location which are offered through the marketplace and that match or are otherwise related to the matching objects. As an example if the identification service identifies a puzzle in the captured image or video data the information aggregator can attempt to determine whether that puzzle is offered through the marketplace and can obtain data from the marketplace relating to the item. The identification service can also determine whether there are any alternate views of that puzzle stored in an image data store as well as a context of at least some of those views for presentation to the user. In at least some embodiments the information aggregator can utilize one or more suggestion algorithms or other such approaches to attempt to suggest related items and or views to display to the user. For example if the object is an ingredient a suggestion algorithm might be used to determine dishes or recipes to suggest to the user as may be based on overall popularity past user purchases or selections as stored in a user data store or other such information. In some embodiments the information aggregator can also return other types of data or metadata to the information service as well as may include title information availability reviews and the like. Various other types of information can be returned as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

The information service can bundle at least a portion of the information to send to the client as part of one or more messages or responses to the original request. Information for the matching objects located by the various identification services can be written to a log data store or other such location in order to assist with future matches or suggestions as well as to help rate a performance of a given identification service. As should be understood each service can include one or more computing components such as at least one server as well as other components known for providing services as may include one or more APIs data storage and other appropriate hardware and software components.

It should be understood that although the identification services are shown to be part of the provider environment in one or more of these identification services might be operated by third parties that offer these services to the provider. For example an electronic retailer might offer an application that can be installed on a computing device for identifying music or movies for purchase. When a user transfers a video clip for example the provider could forward this information to a third party who has software that specializes in identifying objects from video clips. The provider could then match the results from the third party with items from the retailer s electronic catalog in order to return the intended results to the user.

If the number of points is determined to not be adequate another determination can be made as to whether a scalar element was located in the query image. As discussed above a scalar element can include any portion of the image such as a logo label or text that can be useful in identifying an object and establishing a relative scale for that object. The scalar element can be determined using any appropriate process such as an logo match or optical character recognition OCR process among other such options. If no such scalar element is located either a no match or similar result can be returned or another approach can be utilized such as that discussed with respect to . If such a scalar element can be located and identified through image match or other approaches discussed herein at least one classification of the potential types of object s can be determined . The classification can include a type of object a brand of object one or more categories of objects and the like. Based at least in part upon the classification a set of ratios can be determined for use in recognizing the object. These can include for example ratios that have been determined to be of most use in identifying or recognizing items in this classification. As mentioned this can include button related measurements for shirts and logo related ratios for computing devices among other such options. The values for these ratios can be determined for the query image and compared against ratio data for objects of the classification such as data for objects previously analyzed using approaches discussed herein. Based at least in part upon the comparison a determination can be made as to whether a match can be located with at least the minimum confidence or amount of certainty. If not a no match or similar result can be returned . If a match can be located information for the matching object can be determined and returned to the user and or device that submitted the query image.

In some instances a scalar element may not be present or recognized in an image or a more general approach otherwise preferred. In such a situation another example process can be used such as that illustrated in . In this example a query image is received that includes a representation of an object. The query image can be analyzed such as discussed with respect to the process of to determine representative features in the query image. As mentioned with respect to this can include determining the presence of a scalar element in the image. In addition to logos letters words or icons for example any type of element that can provide a measure of relative or absolute scale can be utilized as well as may include true circles squares or other elements that may not be unique but that might have characteristics that enable them to be used for adjusting scale warp distortion or other such affects. For example if a true square appears as a rhombus in an image a distortion removal process or image size adjustment etc. can be applied to adjust at least some of the distortion present in the image. In this example a general set of ratio values can be determined using the representative feature points as well as any determined scalar element. These can be ratios that have been determined to be most useful in classifying objects in a particular category or group of items in at least some embodiments. The ratio values can be compared against ratio values for a set of general classification data in order to determine whether a matching object type can be located. If not a no match or other such result can be returned or other process initiated. If a matching object type or other classification can be determined a second set of ratios specific to that classification of object s can be determined . Using the ratios of the second set the values for these ratios can be determined using the query image and the resulting values compared against the ratio data for the classification. Based at least in part upon the comparison a determination can be made as to whether a match can be located with at least the minimum confidence or amount of certainty. If not a no match or similar result can be returned . If a match can be located information for the matching object can be determined and returned to the user and or device that submitted the query image.

In order to perform ratio based identification the ratio information to be used for matching must be determined ahead of time or at least at the time of matching. This information can be determined in a number of different ways. For example in some instances an employee of a content provider or other such entity can perform a manual inspection to determine measurements and ratios that are at least indicative of a specific type of item such as buttonhole lengths on shirts or logo to case size ratios for smartphones. The employee can then provide rules guidelines and or measurements to be used to perform matching based on at least these ratios. In some instances a feature analysis can be performed on a set of images of a certain type in order to determine the measurements and or ratios that are most indicative of a particular object type of object or brand of object. In some embodiments a feature detection process can be performed and a sampling of ratios performed in order to attempt to generate a signature that is indicative of an object or type of object. Various other approaches can be utilized as well.

In some embodiments the analysis will be performed on a single image or set of images that are provided by a content provider or provider of the type of object. In other embodiments a content provider might capture images of such an object which enables the provider to determine appropriate angles needed to correctly model an object that might be imaged from various angles. The provider can also capture images from specific viewpoints and or distances which can help to infer dimensions and ratios. In still other embodiments a three dimensional modeling approach can be used in order to attempt to generate a three dimensional virtual model of the object from which various measurements and ratios can be calculated based upon point of view and other such aspects. As an example each notebook computer of a particular brand might have a different height width and depth such that the ratios may also vary by computer and the ratios of interest can depend upon the angle from which the notebook computer is captured. Thus the ability to have a three dimensional model can enable multiple input views to be matched based upon a single data set. In some embodiments objects can be scanned using three dimensional laser scanning systems to generate accurate three dimensional virtual models. Once a three dimensional model is available mining intrinsic features or ratios can be relatively straightforward. Different line and plane fitting algorithms can be used to measure lengths and distances for each part or feature of the object. In other embodiments a virtual three dimensional model can be constructed from a video image sequence. Using structure from motion algorithms a three dimensional model of an object can be constructed and then the three dimensional model mined or analyzed for measurement and ratio data as discussed above.

In some embodiments certain dimensions might be provided along with object data such as for products offered for sale. A given object might have associated fields of data such as width height depth brand and object category. There might also be information on the size of the parts of the objects. In some cases a logo might always be of a specific size on products of a certain type. A number of possible size ratios then can be determined based on these ratios alone which can be applied as discriminative for product classification. A user searching for a specific brand or in a specific category can help to select the appropriate ratios for matching. Otherwise a process can attempt to analyze the image to determine such brand or category information such as by analyzing text logos or other such identifiers. A discriminative set of measurements can be generated for all objects represented in an image at least after an object segmentation process is performed to identify the portion of the image that corresponds to a representation of an object. In some embodiments a bounding box can be determined for the outer edge of the representation and then ratios such as the longer bounding box edge to the shorter edge bounding ellipse area to bounding box area and bounding ellipse major axis to minor axis can be determined as well as similar ratios for brand logo on the product logo to object ratios and the like.

In some embodiments two sets of measurements can be used with a first or more general set used to identify a type of object and a second more specific set of measurements that is specific to that type of object. For example a general set of measurements or deep learning classifiers might be used with a deep learning classifier to determine that the object represented in a query image is a bottle. After the object type is determined first performing any localization needed to extract the ratios etc. as discussed above it is possible to extract bottle specific features such as lid to bottle height ratio. For example the ratio of the lid of a one liter bottle of a brand of soda to the height of the bottle itself can drastically narrow down the search space of all products of that brand. If the lid to bottle height ratio is small then the bottle might be a large size. One can also mine other features such as the logo size divided by the height of the label or bottle itself. Such ratios are preserved across different instances of the same product and model. Information such as color consistency can be used as well. For example specific regions can be compared to determine whether the color is consistent and indicative of a particular type of object. For example a label color or liquid color might be indicative of a specific type of object regardless of whether the logo or text is visible in the image. This can be important as a manufacturer might use the same type of bottle for various products such as cola grape soda and ginger ale each of which can have a different color liquid. Similarly the diet version of a soft drink might have the same liquid color but a different label color among other such options. For objects such as furniture the objects might be identical other than the color of the objects such that the only way to differentiate between objects of a particular type brand and model might be by determining the color of the object in the image.

While using the measurements and ratios to locate matching image data can be relatively straightforward the process of obtaining accurate measurements and or ratios can be relatively difficult in at least some situations. For example ratios and measurements are not preserved across different perspectives. Measurements can be normalized if the exact position and pose of the object is known relative to the camera. While the exact pose of an object in an image will not generally be known pose estimation can performed in a variety of ways. One way is to use image match techniques to solve for a linear or non linear motion model of points from the product image to the object in the query image. Another option is to use depth sensors of certain cameras or devices to solve for the pose of the object. Such approaches can provide reasonable results particularly with known shape categories like planar objects bottles etc. In some embodiments a video capture showing a representation of the object can also be used to infer the pose to select an image from which the perspective distortion is minimal.

Another potential issue with determining accurate measurements and ratios is a result of the limits of the resolution of the image itself. The size measurements on the query images will generally be in pixels. The precision with which measurements can be made is thus dependent at least in part upon the resolution of the query image. If the object is relatively small in the image or takes up only a small percentage of the image real estate it can be difficult to accurately determine relatively distances due to the relative size of the pixels in the image. In order to reduce the discretization errors sub pixel level interpolation and image alignment techniques can be utilized. Such processes are known in the art for purposes such as image comparison and refinement. The ability to interpolate can help to determine more accurate ratios as measurements more accurate than the pixel dimensions can be determined. Super resolution algorithms can also be utilized to increase the intrinsic resolution of the image using multiple images of the same scene or object. This can be particularly beneficial when the input image sequence is coming from a video with little to no movement. Other approaches for boosting accuracy can be used as well. These can include for example averaging measurements across different images and or frames in a progressive manner as well as making use of prior information on popular models or products such as the prior probability of observing a particular model using Bayesian or other such models. These can be particularly beneficial for situations such as apparel recognition and fine grained image matching.

In at least some embodiments query images can also be pre processed in order to attempt to improve the quality of the match. This can include for example using noise reduction algorithms or attempting to adjust a brightness or contrast of the image. In some embodiments a color depth of the image may be reduced and or quantized in order to attempt to improve the quality of the match with respect to region colors etc. As mentioned a super resolution or other such process can also be used in an attempt to increase the precision of the data that can be determined from the image. Processes of a particular precision may be able to provide additional advantages as well such as to provide information the size of a specific object i.e. for a shoe or medium for a shirt based on the determined ratios.

In embodiments where patterns are present and a given pattern can help to identify an object it can be desirable to do at least a brief pattern analysis to attempt to prioritize the ratios. For example a checkered shirt would have certain ratios more important than a shirt with only horizontal stripes. By determining the type of pattern the ratios to utilize and or the weight to apply to those ratios can be set accordingly. In some embodiments there can be both generic and unique features and the weighting of each in the matching process can vary. Similarly certain ratios may be weighted more than others as ratios of distances between certain features may be more indicative of a particular object than ratios of distances between generic features although the generic features may be more useful initially for determining a general categorization of the object.

The example computing device also can include at least one orientation sensor such as a position and or movement determining element. Such a sensor can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation of the computing device as well as small movements of the device. An orientation sensor also can include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect . An orientation sensor also can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining relative position orientation and or movement can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device.

In some embodiments the computing device of can include one or more network communication elements such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth RF wired or wireless communication system. The device in many embodiments can communicate with a network such as the Internet and may be able to communicate with other such devices. In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. In some embodiments however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

The device also can include at least one orientation or motion sensor not shown . As discussed such a sensor can include an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation or an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction in which the device is determined to be facing. The mechanism s also or alternatively can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. The device can include other elements as well such as may enable location determinations through triangulation or another such approach. These mechanisms can communicate with the processor whereby the device can perform any of a number of actions described or suggested herein.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP FTP UPnP NFS and CIFS. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and other non transitory computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate non transitory media known or used in the art such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

