---

title: Systems and methods for biometric authentication of transactions
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for authorizing a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal. The systems and methods described herein enable a series of operations whereby a user using a mobile device can capture a code that uniquely identifies a transaction terminal. In addition the mobile device can also capture a user's biometrics, generate a biometric identifier and biometrically verify the user's identity by comparing the biometric identifier to a previously generated biometric identifier. If the user is biometrically authenticated the mobile device can generate a transaction request including, a user identifier, a mobile device identifier, and the transaction terminal code and transmit the transaction request to a system server. Based on the transaction request, the system server can further authenticate the user and/or approve the requested transaction. If the user is authenticated, the system server can instruct the terminal to advance the financial transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471919&OS=09471919&RS=09471919
owner: Hoyos Labs IP Ltd.
number: 09471919
owner_city: Oxford
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20150730
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 201 438 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION OF TRANSACTIONS filed Mar. 7 2014 and is further related to and includes U.S. patent Application Ser. No. 61 822 746 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BIOMETRICALLY AUTHENTICATED ACCESS USING MOBILE DEVICES filed May 13 2013 U.S. patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 800 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BIOMETRICALLY AUTHENTICATED ACCESS USING MOBILE DEVICES filed Jul. 3 2013 U.S. patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 739 entitled SECURE BACK END ARCHITECTURE SYSTEM AND METHOD filed Jul. 3 2013 U.S. patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 757 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING A BIOMETRIC IDENTIFIER filed Jul. 3 2013 U.S. patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 756 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING LIVENESS filed Jul. 3 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 921 004 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING LIVENESS filed Dec. 26 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 920 985 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING A BIOMETRIC IDENTIFIER filed Dec. 26 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 922 438 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR BIOMETRIC PROTOCOL STANDARDS filed Dec. 31 2013 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 924 092 entitled SECURE BACK END ARCHITECTURE SYSTEM AND METHOD filed Jan. 6 2014 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 924 097 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SMARTPHONE SECURITY CASE filed Jan 6 2014 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 14 201 462 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING LIVENESS filed on Mar. 7 2014 U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 14 201 499 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING A BIOMETRIC IDENTIFIER filed on Mar. 7 2014 which are each hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in their respective entireties herein.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for providing authenticated access in particular systems and methods for providing biometrically authenticated access using a mobile device.

Automated teller machines ATMs provide an interface that allows credit card and debit card users to receive and or deposit funds. During typical use of ATMs and other transaction systems like a merchant point of sale device POS a user typically provides a transaction card such as a debit card and or credit card having account information embedded therein. The account information can include a card number the account holder s name and the like. To complete the transaction the user often has to enter in a secure passcode such as a personal identification number PIN to authenticate the transaction.

In an typical ATM transaction the user initiates the transaction by inserting a payment card with the account information therein into the transaction terminal. The ATM transfers a transaction request to a payment network for processing. The payment network is communicatively coupled to the ATMs and various financial institution networks to facilitate processing of the ATM transactions. The payment network can route transaction requests from the ATMs to the appropriate financial institution network based on the transaction information included in the transaction request and can route transaction responses from the financial institution network to the ATMs as would be understood by those skilled in the art. Based on the transaction response the ATM performs the service requested by the user such as for example dispensing funds accepting funds for deposit providing an account balance providing an account statement and the like.

One issue with ATMs and other such secret password authentication based systems is that they are vulnerable to fraud. For example fraudsters often obtain bank account information by attaching scanning devices to an ATM to read a transaction card and record the embedded account information and also obtain the user s PIN number by watching or recording video of the user entering the PIN on the ATM keypad. Once the fraudster has the account information and PIN the fraudster has access to the user s account. Similarly other systems in which a user enters a password PIN log in or other private information are similarly susceptible to fraud. For example a fraudster can obtain a user s secure website log in and password by watching the user input the private information on a computer.

Accordingly there is a need for systems and methods for facilitating secure transactions such as financial transactions that are less susceptible to fraud from capturing a user s private account information and or secret passcodes.

As a biometric is a biological characteristic such as a fingerprint the geometry of a hand Retina pattern iris shape etc. of an individual biometric techniques can be used as an additional verification factor since biometrics are usually more difficult to obtain than other non biometric credentials. Biometrics can be used for identification and or authentication also referred to as identity assertion and or verification .

Biometric identity assertion can require a certain level of security as dictated by the application. For example authentication in connection with a financial transaction or gaining access to a secure location requires higher security levels. As a result preferably the accuracy of the biometric representation of a user is sufficient to ensure that the user is accurately authenticated and security is maintained. However to the extent iris face finger and voice identity assertion systems exist and provide the requisite level of accuracy such systems require dedicated devices and applications and are not easily implemented on conventional smartphones which have limited camera resolution and light emitting capabilities.

The challenges surrounding traditional biometric feature capture techniques which generally require high resolution imagery multi spectral lighting and significant computing power to execute the existing image analysis algorithms to achieve the requisite accuracy dictated by security have made biometric authentication not widely available or accessible to the masses. Moreover traditional biometric authentication techniques requiring dedicated devices used in a specific way e.g. require a cooperative subject have a narrow field of view biometric must be obtained in a specific way detracts from user convenience and wide scale implementation.

Accordingly there is a need for systems and methods with which a user s identity can be verified conveniently seamlessly and with a sufficient degree of accuracy from biometric information captured from the user using readily available smartphones. In addition what is needed are identity assertion systems and methods that preferably are not reliant on multi spectral imaging devices multi spectral light emitters high resolution cameras or multiple user inputs.

Technologies are presented herein in support of a system and method for authorizing a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal.

According to a first aspect the method for authorizing a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal includes the steps of receiving by a mobile device information that uniquely identifies a transaction terminal. The information can be read by the mobile device using an associated camera or reader for capturing machine readable codes. In furtherance of the transaction the method includes causing a camera of the mobile device to capture a plurality of images depicting at least one facial region of the user. Using the plurality of images the mobile device generates a biometric identifier for the user and verifies the user s identity by comparing the biometric identifier to one or more previously generated biometric identifiers. In response to verifying the user s identity the computing device also generates a transaction request that includes a user identifier that identifies the user a mobile device identifier that identifies the mobile device and a transaction terminal identifier that uniquely identifies the transaction terminal. The method also includes transmitting the transaction request to a remote computing device such that the user is authorized to transact at the transaction terminal after the user identifier is verified the mobile device identifier is verified and the transaction is verified.

According to another aspect a method for authorizing a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal includes the steps of generating by a remote computing device a code that uniquely identifies a transaction terminal and causing the transaction terminal to display the code. The method also includes receiving by the remote computing device from a mobile device over a network a transaction request that includes a user identifier that identifies the user a mobile device identifier that identifies the mobile device a transaction terminal identifier that uniquely identifies the transaction terminal and biometric authentication information indicating whether the user has been biometrically authenticated. Using the transaction request the remote computing device authorizes the user to transact at the transaction terminal. Authorizing the user includes verifying the user identifier verifying the mobile device identifier verifying that the user has been biometrically authenticated according to the biometric authentication information and verifying the transaction according to the transaction terminal identifier and the code. In response to successful user authorization the method includes advancing the transaction at the terminal.

According to another aspect a system is provided for authorizing a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal. The system includes one or more processors configured to interact with a camera a communication interface and a computer readable storage medium and execute one or more software modules stored on the storage medium. The software modules include a capture module that when executed by the processor configures the processor and the camera to receive information that uniquely identifies a transaction terminal and also capture a plurality of images depicting at least one facial region of the user. The software modules also includes an analysis module that configures the processor to generate from the plurality of images a biometric identifier that identifies the user. The software modules also includes an authentication module that configures the processor to verify the user s identity by comparing the biometric identifier to one or more previously generated biometric identifiers and generate a transaction request in response to verifying the user s identity. The transaction request includes a user identifier that identifies the user a mobile device identifier that identifies the mobile device and a transaction terminal identifier that uniquely identifies the transaction terminal. In addition the software modules includes a communication module that configures the processor and communication interface to transmit the transaction request to one or more remote computing devices and receive an authorization notification indicating whether the user is authorized to transact at the transaction terminal wherein the user is authorized to transact at the transaction terminal after the user identifier is verified the mobile device identifier is verified and the transaction is verified.

These and other aspects features and advantages can be appreciated from the accompanying description of certain embodiments of the invention and the accompanying drawing figures and claims.

By way of example only and for the purpose of overview and introduction embodiments of the present invention are described below which concern a system and method for authorizing a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal according to the user s biometric features.

The system can include a remote system server platform that communicates with enabled user devices such as mobile devices e.g. smartphones and communicates with transaction terminals such as ATMs. In some implementations an ATM can be caused to display a temporary code such as a QR code that uniquely identifies the particular ATM. The user can continue the transaction process by capturing the displayed code with the user s mobile device camera. In order to ensure that the user is authorized to perform the transaction the user s identity can be biometrically authenticated. For example the user can be prompted to capture biometric information using the mobile device say by capturing images of the user s face with the mobile device camera. Using that information the user can be biometrically authenticated by comparing the captured information to biometric information previously captured during an enrollment stage. If the user is biometrically authenticated the mobile device can transmit a transaction request to the remote system server. The transaction request can include the captured code identifying the ATM information identifying the user and the mobile device. In some implementations the transaction request can also include transaction details for example a withdrawal request of 100. Based on the transaction request the system server can further authenticate authorize the user to conduct the transaction and can also approve any transactions requested by the user. Upon successful authentication and or authorization the system server can instruct the ATM to advance the financial transaction at the terminal. For example the system server can cause the ATM to dispense funds receive funds or otherwise allow the user to interact with the ATM and carry out transactions at the terminal.

The systems and methods of the present application provide significant convenience for users as a function of biometrics based access management and increased transaction security by supplementing or eliminating the need for passwords pins tokens and the like and or devices dedicated to storing transaction account information such as bank cards or token key fobs and the like. The systems and methods of the present application also maintain a history of transactions tied to the user s biometrically authenticated identity. The historical information and trends are also maintained and auditing and non repudiation of transactions occurs based on the linkage between the mobile device the transaction terminal and the individual account.

Although many of the examples set forth herein describe authentication of a user and authorizing the user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal e.g. ATM the invention is not so limited. It is provided that many of the principles disclosed herein are applicable to virtually any type of system requiring user authentication such as for example website access physical access control user role determination group identification automation password management or other networked secure access systems. In addition it should be understood that user identification user authentication user authorization and user verification are non limiting terms and are used interchangeably.

An exemplary system for authenticating a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal is shown as a block diagram in . In an exemplary arrangement the system includes a system server a remote computing device a mobile device associated with a user and a transaction terminal

The system server can be practically any computing device and or data processing apparatus capable of communicating with mobile devices transaction terminals and other remote computing devices receiving transmitting and storing electronic information and processing requests as further described herein. System server and remote computing device are intended to represent various forms of digital computers such as laptops desktops workstations personal digital assistants servers blade servers mainframes and other appropriate computers and or networked or cloud based computing systems.

In some implementations remote computing device can be associated with an enterprise organization for example a financial institution or any such entity that maintains user enterprise accounts also referred to as transaction accounts and provides services to account holders and requires authentication of the user prior to granting access to the enterprise systems and services. By way of further example remote computing device can include payment networks such as the Visa transaction card network by Visa Inc. of Foster City and banking networks for processing financial transactions as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

The mobile device can be any computing device and or data processing apparatus capable of embodying the systems and or methods described herein including but not limited to a personal computer tablet computer personal digital assistant mobile electronic device cellular telephone or smart phone device and the like. The transaction terminal is intended to represent various forms of computing devices such as workstations dedicated point of sale systems ATM terminals personal computers laptop computers tablet computers smart phone devices personal digital assistants or other appropriate computers that can be used to conduct electronic transactions. The mobile device and or the transaction terminal can also be configured to receive user inputs as well as capture and process biometric information for example digital images of a user as further described herein.

In some implementations the system server implements rules governing access to information and or the transmission of information between computing devices that users interact with e.g. mobile device and or transaction terminal and one or more trusted back end servers e.g. remote computing device .

In some implementations the system server can be configured to facilitate authentication of the user in furtherance of a transaction without authorizing the underlying transaction. In this manner the system server is not required to retain the user s sensitive transaction account information used to authorize the underlying transaction instead the system server is configured to authenticate the user s identity at an appropriate level of security. For example the system can authenticate a user conducting a banking transaction according to the standards required by a bank and notifying the bank e.g. remote computing device that the user s identity has been authenticated. Accordingly the exemplary systems and methods can supplement and or replace the existing bank card secret PIN authentication process by integrating with the existing banking infrastructure and processes without interfering with established processes for authorizing the transactions once a user s identity has been established for security purposes.

In addition to identity assertion the system server can also implement additional security processes including role gathering and access control so as to facilitate authorization of the user in connection with the requested transactions or otherwise control a user s access to networked secure environments. As such the authorization process can include determining whether the user s identity is associated with one or more transaction accounts e.g. bank accounts . In addition the authorization process can also include determining the user s level of access using the transaction account for example whether the user has the requisite permissions to transact at an ATM or perform specific transactions say withdraw funds make deposits and the like as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

Identity assertion role gathering access control and other security functions of the system server including auditing security assurance and accountability are further described herein and in co pending and commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 622 438 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR BIOMETRIC PROTOCOL STANDARDS filed Dec. 31 2013.

As further described herein the systems and methods for authenticating a user can meet the security levels required by an enterprise system by using an API to integrate with an existing system e.g. a financial institution s transaction processing and data management system . Accordingly the system server need not know whether the underlying system e.g. remote computing device is a Relational Database Management System RDBMS a Search Engine a financial transaction processing system and the like. Accordingly the systems and methods for facilitating secure authentication offer a point and cut mechanism to add the appropriate security to existing enterprise systems as well as to systems in development. In some implementations the system architecture is a language neutral allowing REST JSON and Secure Socket Layers to provide the communication interface between the various computing devices e.g. and . Further in one or more implementations the architecture is built on the servlet specification open secure socket layers Java JSON REST and Apache Solr. Accordingly the disclosed systems for authenticating a user can implement open standards allowing significant interoperability.

It should be noted that while depicts the system with respect to a mobile device it should be understood that any number of such devices can interact with the system in the manner described herein. It should also be noted that while depicts the system with respect to a user it should be understood that any number of users can interact with the system in the manner described herein. It should also be understood that computing devices can be in direct communication with the system server indirect communication with the system server and or can be communicatively coordinated with the system server as will be described in greater detail below.

It should be further understood that while the various computing devices and machines referenced herein including but not limited to mobile device transaction terminal system server and remote computing device are referred to herein as individual single devices and or machines in certain implementations the referenced devices and machines and their associated and or accompanying operations features and or functionalities can be combined or arranged or otherwise employed across any number of devices and or machines such as over a network connection or wired connection as is known to those of skill in the art.

In reference to mobile device of the system for biometric authentication includes various hardware and software components that serve to enable operation of the system including one or more processors a memory a microphone a display a camera an audio output a storage and a communication interface . Processor serves to execute a client application in the form of software instructions that can be loaded into memory . Processor can be a number of processors a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a multi processor core or any other type of processor depending on the particular implementation.

Preferably the memory and or the storage are accessible by the processor thereby enabling the processor to receive and execute instructions encoded in the memory and or on the storage so as to cause the mobile device and its various hardware components to carry out operations for aspects of the exemplary systems and methods disclosed herein. Memory can be for example a random access memory RAM or any other suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage medium. The storage can take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example the storage can contain one or more components or devices such as a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. In addition the memory and or storage can be fixed or removable.

One or more software modules are encoded in the storage and or in the memory . The software modules can comprise one or more software programs or applications having computer program code or a set of instructions referred to as the mobile authentication client application executed in the processor . As depicted in preferably included among the software modules is a user interface module a biometric capture module an analysis module an enrollment module a database module an authentication module and a communication module that are executed by processor . Such computer program code or instructions configure the processor to carry out operations of the systems and methods disclosed herein and can be written in any combination of one or more programming languages.

The program code can execute entirely on mobile device as a stand alone software package partly on mobile device partly on system server or entirely on system server or another remote computer device. In the latter scenario the remote computer can be connected to mobile device through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN mobile communications network cellular network or the connection can be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

It can also be said that the program code of software modules and one or more computer readable storage devices such as memory and or storage form a computer program product that can be manufactured and or distributed in accordance with the present invention as is known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

It should be understood that in some illustrative embodiments one or more of the software modules can be downloaded over a network to storage from another device or system via communication interface for use within the system for biometric authentication . In addition it should be noted that other information and or data relevant to the operation of the present systems and methods such as database can also be stored on storage. In some implementations such information is stored on an encrypted data store that is specifically allocated so as to securely store information collected or generated by the processor executing the software modules . Preferably encryption measures are used to store the information locally on the mobile device storage and transmit information to the system server . For example such data can be encrypted using a 1024 bit polymorphic cipher or depending on the export controls an AES 256 bit encryption method. Furthermore encryption can be performed using remote key seeds or local keys seeds . Alternative encryption methods can be used as would be understood by those skilled in the art for example SHA256.

In addition data stored on the mobile device and or system server can be encrypted using an encryption key generated from a user s biometric information liveness information or mobile device information as further described herein. In some implementations a combination of the foregoing can be used to create a complex unique key for the user that can be encrypted on the mobile device using Elliptic Curve Cryptography preferably at least 384 bits in length. In addition that key can be used to secure the user data stored on the mobile device and or the system server.

Also preferably stored on storage is database . As will be described in greater detail below the database contains and or maintains various data items and elements that are utilized throughout the various operations of the system and method for authenticating a user conducting a financial transaction at a transaction terminal. The information stored in database can include but is not limited to a user profile as will be described in greater detail herein. It should be noted that although database is depicted as being configured locally to mobile device in certain implementations the database and or various of the data elements stored therein can in addition or alternatively be located remotely such as on a remote device or system server not shown and connected to mobile device through a network in a manner known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

A user interface is also operatively connected to the processor. The interface can be one or more input or output device s such as switch es button s key s a touch screen microphone etc. as would be understood in the art of electronic computing devices. User Interface serves to facilitate the capture of commands from the user such as an on off commands or user information and settings related to operation of the system for authenticating a user . For example interface serves to facilitate the capture of certain information from the mobile device such as personal user information for enrolling with the system so as to create a user profile.

The computing device can also include a display which is also operatively connected to processor the processor . The display includes a screen or any other such presentation device which enables the mobile device to instruct or otherwise provide feedback to the user regarding the operation of the system . By way of example the display can be a digital display such as a dot matrix display or other 2 dimensional display.

By way of further example the interface and the display can be integrated into a touch screen display. Accordingly the display is also used to show a graphical user interface which can display various data and provide forms that include fields that allow for the entry of information by the user. Touching the touch screen at locations corresponding to the display of a graphical user interface allows the user to interact with the device to enter data change settings control functions etc. So when the touch screen is touched user interface communicates this change to processor and settings can be changed or user entered information can be captured and stored in the memory and or storage.

Mobile device also includes a camera capable of capturing digital images. The camera can be one or more imaging devices configured to capture images of at least a portion of the user s body including the user s eyes and or face while utilizing the mobile device . The camera serves to facilitate the capture of images of the user for the purpose of image analysis by the configured mobile device processor which includes identifying biometric features for biometrically authenticating the user from the images. The mobile device and or the camera can also include one or more light or signal emitters not shown for example a visible light emitter and or infra red light emitter and the like. The camera can be integrated into the mobile device such as a front facing camera or rear facing camera that incorporates a sensor for example and without limitation a CCD or CMOS sensor. Alternatively the camera can be external to the mobile device . The possible variations of the camera and light emitters would be understood by those skilled in the art. In addition the mobile device can also include one or more microphones for capturing audio recordings as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

An audio output is also operatively connected to the processor . The audio output can be integrated into the mobile device or external to the mobile device and can be any type of speaker system that is configured to play electronic audio files as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

Various hardware devices sensors are also operatively connected to the processor. The sensors can include an on board clock to track time of day etc. a GPS enabled device to determine a location of the mobile device an accelerometer to track the orientation and acceleration of the mobile device a gravity magnetometer for measuring the earth s magnetic field proximity sensors for measuring distance from the mobile device to an object RF radiation sensors for measuring radiation and other such devices for capturing information concerning the environment of the mobile device as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

Communication interface is also operatively connected to the processor and can be any interface that enables communication between the mobile device and external devices machines and or elements. Preferably the communication interface can include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver e.g. Bluetooth cellular NFC a satellite communication transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection and or any other such interfaces for connecting the mobile device to other computing devices and or communication networks such as private networks and the Internet. Such connections can include a wired connection or a wireless connection e.g. using the 802.11 standard though it should be understood that the communication interface can be practically any interface that enables communication to from the mobile device.

At various points during the operation of the system for authenticating a user conducting a financial transaction the mobile device can communicate with one or more computing devices such as system server transaction terminal and or remote computing device . Such computing devices transmit and or receive data to from mobile device thereby preferably initiating maintaining and or enhancing the operation of the system as will be described in greater detail below.

In certain implementations a memory and or a storage medium are accessible by the processor thereby enabling the processor to receive and execute instructions stored on the memory and or on the storage . The memory can be for example a random access memory RAM or any other suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage medium. In addition the memory can be fixed or removable. The storage can take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example the storage can contain one or more components or devices such as a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The storage also can be fixed or removable.

One or more software modules depicted in are encoded in the storage and or in the memory . The software modules can comprise one or more software programs or applications collectively referred to as the secure authentication server application having computer program code or a set of instructions executed in the processor . Such computer program code or instructions for carrying out operations for aspects of the systems and methods disclosed herein can be written in any combination of one or more programming languages as would be understood by those skilled in the art. The program code can execute entirely on the system server as a stand alone software package partly on the system server and partly on a remote computing device such as a remote computing device mobile device and or user computing device or entirely on such remote computing devices. As depicted in preferably included among the software modules are an analysis module an enrollment module an authentication module a database module and a communication module that are executed by the system server s processor .

Also preferably stored on the storage is a database . As will be described in greater detail below the database contains and or maintains various data items and elements that are utilized throughout the various operations of the system including but not limited to user profiles as will be described in greater detail herein. It should be noted that although the database is depicted as being configured locally to the computing device in certain implementations the database and or various of the data elements stored therein can be stored on a computer readable memory or storage medium that is located remotely and connected to the system server through a network not shown in a manner known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

A communication interface is also operatively connected to the processor . The communication interface can be any interface that enables communication between the system server and external devices machines and or elements. In certain implementations the communication interface can include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver e.g. Bluetooth cellular NFC a satellite communication transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection and or any other such interfaces for connecting the computing device to other computing devices and or communication networks such as private networks and the Internet. Such connections can include a wired connection or a wireless connection e.g. using the 802.11 standard though it should be understood that communication interface can be practically any interface that enables communication to from the processor .

The operation of the system for authenticating a user in connection with a transaction at a transaction terminal and the various elements and components described above will be further appreciated with reference to the method for authenticating a user conducting a financial transaction as described below in conjunction with and with continued reference to . The processes depicted in are shown from the perspective of the mobile device as well as the system server however it should be understood that the processes can be performed in whole or in part by the mobile device the system server and or other computing devices e.g. remote computing device and or transaction terminal or any combination of the foregoing.

Turning briefly to which depicts an exemplary process for enrolling a user according to certain embodiments of the invention the process begins at step where an initial communication session is established between the mobile device and the system server . In some implementations communications between the mobile device and system server can be established using 2 way Secure Socket Layers SSL established on a top of 1 way SSL communication. More specifically the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software applications including preferably the communications module and the enrollment module can transmit an API call to the system server and establish a 1 way SSL communication session with the system server in order to encrypt the communications. The API call can also include a private 2 way SSL key so as to establish a 2 way SSL secure communication environment. In some implementations the mobile device can transmit a pre loaded 2 way SSL certificate and an API key that is unique to the mobile device client application. The pre loaded certificate and key can be single use instances that are stored when the client application is stored into memory.

Then at step the mobile device collects user identification information. More specifically the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including preferably the enrollment module and the user interface module can prompt the user to input the user identification information and receive the user inputs via the user interface . The user identification information can include information about the user s identity e.g. name address social security number etc. . For example as shown in the mobile device display can prompt the user to input such personal information about the user s identity . In some implementations some or all of the information can be gathered automatically from memory of the mobile device or from a remote computing device.

In addition the mobile device can prompt the user to input information about one or more transaction accounts that the user desires to access using the system . For example the user can enter pre existing log in and passwords associated with the user s various transaction accounts e.g. online banking accounts website log ins enterprise account passwords and the like or actual transaction account information e.g. account numbers routing numbers debit credit card numbers PINs expiration dates etc. as shown in . In some implementations the configured mobile device processor and or the system server can automatically obtain some or all of such information directly from the enterprise organizations associated with the transaction accounts after verifying the user s identity according to the user identification information provided by the user.

Then at step mobile device identification information is collected. Mobile device identification information can include but is not limited to at least a portion of the DeviceID AndroidID IMEI CPU serial number GPU serial number and other such identifiers that are unique to the mobile device. More specifically the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including preferably the enrollment module can query the various hardware and software components of the mobile device to obtain respective device identification information. Using the mobile device identification information the configured mobile device processor or the system server can generate one or more mobile device identifiers that uniquely identify the mobile device as further described herein.

Then at step the user s identity is verified. More specifically the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including preferably the enrollment module and communication module can transmit the user identification information and the mobile device identification information to the system server for verification and generation of a user profile by the system server .

In some implementations the system server can verify the user s identity according to transaction account and password information that is already associated with one or more existing transaction accounts associated with the user and stored on the system server or on a secure data store that is accessible by the system server. For example if the system server is integrated with a bank s existing security systems the user can be identified by say an existing account number and pin number or a log in and password. In addition or alternatively the user s identity can be verified using third party verification services for example the Acxiom Personal Information Verification System by Acxiom Corp. of Little Rock Ark.

Then at step if a user s identity is verified a user profile is generated and stored. The user profile can include one or more pieces of user identification information and mobile device identification. In addition the user profile can include information concerning one or more of the user s transaction accounts as well as settings that can be used to guide the operation of the system according to the user s preferences.

In some implementations the system server can generate a unique identifier for the user a userId and an associated mobile device identifier a mobileId and store the identifiers in a clustered persistent environment so as to create the profile for the user. The userId and mobileId can be generated using one or more pieces of the user identification information and mobile device identification information respectively. It should be understood that additional user identification information and mobile device identification information can also be stored to create the user profile or stored in association with the user profile.

In addition the userId and associated mobileId can be stored in association with information concerning one or more transaction accounts described at step . In some implementations the specific transaction account information can be stored on the system server thereby enabling the system server to authorize all or part of the requested transactions on behalf of the user and the enterprise organization. In addition or alternatively the user profile can be associated with a transaction account using for example an identifier e.g. a site ID or global unique identifier etc. or other such pointer to a secure datastore storing the sensitive transaction account information say the remote computing device operated by an enterprise organization. Accordingly the system server is not required to store sensitive transaction account information and as further described herein the system server can forward transaction requests to the appropriate enterprise organization for processing and or query the secure datastore to gather the necessary information for processing the transaction request.

At this juncture it can be appreciated that the userId can be used to map the user profile to the user s legacy enterprise accounts. In addition the mobileId ties the device to a user profile. In some implementations the userIds are a convention whereas the mobileIds are mandatory because the mobileId alone can link the user and mobile device pair to the user profile maintained by the system server and or the user s transaction accounts. Moreover any additional information included in the user profile can be used for non repudiation or provenance purposes by the system server in future authorization requests.

It can be appreciated that user profiles can be created by the system server and or the mobile device . Moreover one or more instances of a user profile can be stored on various devices e.g. system server mobile device remote computing device or transaction terminal . In addition the information included in the various instances of the user s profiles can vary from device to device. For example an instance of the user profile which stored on the mobile device can include the userId mobileId user identification information and sensitive information concerning the user s transaction accounts say account numbers and the like. By way of further example the instance of the user profile stored by the system server can include the userId mobileId other unique identifiers assigned to the user and information that identifies the user s transaction accounts but does not include sensitive account information.

In some implementations generating the user profile by the system server can also include generating a private key say a unique 2 way SSL certificate using the user identification information which can include the information concerning the user s transaction account s and the mobile device identification information. The generated private key can also be transmitted back to the mobile device for storage in the mobile device. Accordingly the generated key can be used for subsequent communications in conjunction with identity assertion sessions.

For example the genesis phase can link the information that identifies the user e.g. userId SSN email or other user identifiers to a Common Name CN which can be the particular manner in which the particular user is uniquely identified by the system server and or legacy enterprise account systems in the two way secure socket layers key. Accordingly. the genesis phase can also link legacy enterprise accounts associated with the user e.g. the user s bank account with the user identity maintained by the system server .

The private key is generated on the system server and links the mobile device e.g. mobileId and user e.g. userId pair to the user identity e.g. user identifier common name etc. that will be used for subsequent communication.

The identity as asserted through the 2 way Secure Socket Layer key can be maintained for all communication. This key is encoded with a password known to only the device being used during enrollment which in this example is the mobile device . In addition the key is programmatically placed in the key store on the mobile device . It is the only mechanism allowing the identity and links to the genesis phases. No human or device knows the password used to encrypt the 2 way SSL key. Accordingly the mobile device using the private key has an identity to offer in subsequent communications. It can be appreciated that each enabled mobile device associated with a user can have a unique key that can be linked to the same user profile enabling the use of multiple devices in the same manner. In addition or alternatively separate user profiles can be established and maintained for each user device pair independently or in a linked fashion. It can also be appreciated that similarly multiple users can use the same device s which correspond to individual user profiles or joint user profiles or otherwise linked user profiles.

Accordingly as a result of genesis enrollment a user profile is created which associates the user the mobile device and one or more transaction accounts. In addition the mobile device can be provided with information e.g. a unique user identifier and mobile device identifier and or unique keys for identifying the user and mobile device in subsequent communications say identity assertion sessions.

Then at step user settings are received. Settings include preferences and rules defined by the user for guiding the operation of the system . In some implementations during the enrollment process or at any point thereafter the mobile device can prompt the user to input settings and associate those settings with one or more of the user s transaction accounts. The settings can be stored by the mobile device or the system server or a combination of the foregoing.

For example and without limitation the user can specify default transaction accounts thereby configuring the mobile device and or the system server to select transaction accounts and or process transactions efficiently. By way of further example a user can specify rules to control use of certain accounts say causing the system server to prevent certain types of transactions cause a notification to be provided to the user or implement additional security measures to ensure approved account usage.

In some implementations the user defined settings can cause the system to carry out various transactions automatically or with fewer user inputs. For example a user can specify that when conducting a transaction at an ATM she typically wishes to withdraw a prescribed amount of cash from a default transaction account. Accordingly the system can automatically conduct the transaction by applying the user defined settings when a transaction at an ATM is initiated without requiring the user to provide or confirm the transaction account and transaction details.

In some implementations a user can also set one time transaction rules in advance of conducting a transaction at a terminal. For example the user can specify that the next time the user initiates a transaction at a particular bank s ATM the user desires to deposit a check for 500 into the user s savings account held at that bank. In this manner the user can queue a number of different transactions to be carried out automatically by the system .

It should be understood that the described settings are presented as non limiting examples and that a wide variety of settings can be used to control how transactions are conducted by the system and how the user interacts with the system .

Then at step the user s biometrics features are captured and one or more biometric identifiers are generated using the mobile device . More specifically the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including the enrollment module the analysis module the user interface module and the biometric capture module can prompt the user to capture the user s biometric information. The configured processor can also analyze the biometric information identify the user s biometric features and generate one or more biometric identifiers characterizing the user s biometric features as further described herein. In addition one or more biometric identifiers can be stored to complete the enrolment stage. In some implementations one or more biometric identifiers can be stored locally on the mobile device such that the mobile device can perform the biometric authentication process. In addition or alternatively one or more biometric identifiers can be stored on a remote computing device e.g. system server enabling the remote computing device to perform biometric authentication of the user as further described herein.

The process begins at step where the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including the authentication module and the user interface module captures a code identifying the transaction terminal . For example the user can be prompted to point the mobile device camera at a QR code image displayed by the transaction terminal such that the mobile device camera can capture an image of the code. depicts a transaction terminal displaying the code as a QR code such that the user can capture the code using the mobile device . By way of further example the code can be an RFID signal that is transmitted by the terminal for reading by the mobile device using an RFID reader when the user is in proximity to the terminal. It can be appreciated that the code can be any machine readable signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for receipt by a suitable receiver apparatus.

Preferably the code is a temporary code that changes at defined intervals. In some implementations the code can be output by the transaction terminal for a pre defined duration for example between 1 and 10 seconds and changes at such intervals. In addition the code can be pseudo randomly generated such that each code displayed is unique. In addition the code can also include information such as a time and date stamp a location of the terminal and other such information concerning the transaction terminal. The unique randomly generated codes and limited output duration is a security measure to ensure that each code is effectively a single use code and cannot be captured and re used once it expires in an attempt to overcome security measures by a fraudster.

In addition additional security measures or checks can be implemented by the system server to ensure that the codes are single use codes and cannot be associated with multiple transaction attempts. In some implementations once the system server receives a transaction request using a code identifying a particular transaction terminal the system server can decline any ensuing transaction request that includes the same code. For example if another user captures the same code while the first user is at the terminal the first in time transaction request can be processed and the other user is prevented from conducting a transaction using the same code. In addition or alternatively after receiving a transaction request identifying the particular transaction terminal from a first user the system server can decline any other user transaction requests identifying the transaction terminal for a prescribed period of time irrespective of whether the ensuing transaction requests identify the transaction terminal using a new code or previously displayed code. In some implementations the system server can also deny any transaction request if multiple requests are received using the same code or prompt the user to capture additional codes or perform other authentication steps to ensure that the transaction is being conducted at the particular terminal with the right user.

It should be understood that the codes can be generated by the transaction terminal the remote computing device and or the system server or a combination of the foregoing. Moreover each code can be stored temporarily or persistently on any such computing devices. For example the code can be generated by the system server transmitted to the particular transaction terminal for output and stored on the system server until a new code is transmitted to the transaction terminal. By way of further example if the code is used to conduct a financial transaction at the transaction terminal the code can be stored persistently say in association with a record of the transaction.

At step the mobile device captures at least the user s biometric information and authenticates the user according to the biometric information. The biometric authentication step verifies that the individual who is interacting with the mobile device is a user that has been previously enrolled with the system .

In some implementations the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including the authentication module the user interface module the analysis module and the biometric capture module can capture biometric information in the form of images of the user s eyes periocular region and face or any combination of the foregoing collectively referred to as the Vitruvian region using the camera .

In addition the configured processor can subsequently generate a biometric identifier characterizing the user s biometric features. Using the generated biometric identifier the user s identity can be authenticated by comparing the biometric identifier to a stored biometric identifier that was previously generated during the enrollment process. It should be understood that the biometric authentication step is not limited to using the exemplary Vitruvian biometric identifier and can utilize any number of alternative biometric identifiers generated according to known and unknown biometric identification modalities e.g. iris face voice fingerprint and the like .

In some implementations the configured mobile device processor can also capture information indicative of the user s liveness and determine whether the captured information is indicative of a live subject so as to prevent erroneous authentication caused by spoofing. A user s liveness can be determined based on biometric information and non biometric information. For example and without limitation non machine vision based information can include a time received from an on board clock a location received from GPS device how far from the user s face the camera is positioned during image capture calculated from imagery or other on board proximity measuring devices the orientation of the mobile device and acceleration of the mobile device received from an accelerometer RF radiation detected by an RF detector gravity magnetometers which detect the Earth s magnetic field can be used to determine the 3 dimensional orientation in which the phone is being held light sensors which measure light intensity levels.

Accordingly during authentication sessions the current non computer vision based data collected by the processor can be analyzed and or compared to the user s established behavioral traits. For example current time and location can be compared to the user s time and location based behavioral patterns to determine if any abnormal behavior is exhibited. By way of further example the swing or acceleration of the mobile device can be compared to a pattern identified during enrollment and multiple authentication sessions to identify abnormal behavior. By way of further example the device orientation or distance from the user s face can be similarly compared to established patterns. By way of further example an RF radiation signature for the user can be compared to a baseline RF signature established during enrollment to identify abnormal RF radiation levels suggesting the use of video screens to spoof the system.

By way of non limiting example and without limitation systems and methods for capturing user biometric information biometric authentication and determining liveness are described herein and in co pending and commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 822 746 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 800 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 739 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 757 and U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 842 756. It should be understood that any number of biometric authentication and liveness determination techniques and applications can be employed in accordance with the disclosed embodiments.

In some implementations the biometric authentication and liveness determination is performed by the mobile device such that the system server is not required to receive process or store the user s sensitive biometric information. However in addition or alternatively biometric authentication and liveness determination can be performed by remote computing devices for example system server or remote computing device .

Moreover it should be understood that the user can be biometrically authenticated before or after capturing the code associated with the transaction terminal . In addition the customer can be prompted to biometrically authenticate and or capture the code displayed by the transaction terminal at multiple stages during a transaction to provide additional security checks. Similarly the user can also be prompted to also enter additional information into the mobile device or the transaction terminal while conducting the financial transaction.

At step the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including the user interface module receives transaction details from the user via the user interface . The transaction details include information concerning the transaction s that the user wishes to perform at the transaction terminal . In some implementations transaction details can include for example a transaction type e.g. withdrawal deposit balance inquiry etc. a transaction amount a selection of a particular transaction account for conducting the transaction and the like. The transaction details can also include one or more pre defined settings or rules input by the user in advance of the financial transaction as described above.

It should be understood that transaction details need not be received from the user via the mobile device . For example the identification of the transaction terminal and the user s biometric authentication can provide sufficient information for the system server to authenticate the user and cause the transaction terminal to advance the transaction as further described herein. By way of further example transaction details can be received by the transaction terminal and subsequently transmitted by the transaction terminal to the system server .

At step the mobile device processor which is configured by executing one or more software modules including preferably the authentication module and the communication module generates a transaction request and transmits the transaction request to the system server . In some implementations the transaction request can include the transaction details information derived from the captured code information derived from the user identification information e.g. the userId assigned to the user during enrollment information derived from the mobile device identification information e.g. the mobileId assigned to the mobile device during enrollment and information indicating whether the user has been biometrically authenticated.

In some implementations the mobile device transmits the transaction request as a 1 way SSL API call to the system server . The transaction request can also include a private key generated during the enrollment process thereby establishing a 2 way SSL secured communication session between the mobile device and the system server .

It should be understood that the information included in the transaction request can be transmitted in any number of separate transmissions. Similarly the processing of the transaction request as further described at step can be performed in any number of steps. In some implementations the system server can uses a two step mechanism to verify user biometric authentication. For example after the genesis phase the mobile device has a 2 way SSL Key in its key store and the mobile device uses the key automatically per a variety of specifications on SSL to identify the device for all future communication. The 2 Way SSL notifies the system server who is attempting to work as the biometric authentication systems methods authenticate that identity through to a result. The mobile device then sends the result to the system server as the final stage of the biometric authentication process.

Then at step the system server authorizes the user to transact at the transaction terminal according to the transaction request. In some implementations the step of authorizing the transaction can include verifying that an authorized user operating an authorized mobile device is conducting the financial transaction. More specifically the system server can cross reference the user identified by the transaction request with database of user profiles to determine whether the user is associated with a user profile and is therefore enrolled with the system . In addition the system server can determine whether the mobile device identified by the transaction request is also associated with the user s profile. In addition the step of authorizing the user to transact can also include determining by the system server whether the transaction request is indicative of the user having been biometrically authenticated. In addition the step of authorizing the user to transact at the terminal can also include determining whether the captured code identifying the transaction terminal is a valid code for example whether the code corresponds to a code that is currently being displayed by the transaction terminal or was recently displayed by the transaction terminal identified by the code or has not been used in conjunction with a previously received transaction request.

In some implementations the step of authorizing the transaction can also include determining by the system server whether the user s profile identifies one or more transaction account s enabling the user to conduct the financial transaction specified in the transaction details. For example the system server can determine whether a transaction account identified in the user profile matches a financial transaction account identified in the transaction details.

In some implementations authorizing the transaction request can also include authorizing all or part of the financial transaction specified in the transaction details based on the user s profile the transaction details and the code identifying the transaction terminal . More specifically the system server can query one or more defined data stores to gather any roles e.g. access permissions rules etc. associated with the one or more transaction accounts identified in the user profile and or identified in the transaction details to determine whether the user can perform the requested transaction. In addition the system server can also gather roles associated with the transaction terminal identified by the code to determine whether the requested transaction can be conducted at the transaction terminal. Based on the so gathered roles and the transaction details the system server can determine whether the user is authorized to conduct the transaction at the transaction terminal

In addition in some implementations the system server can also store information in connection with each communication and transaction for example transaction information including the user s mobile device identifier mobileId the amount the account number for the bank the transaction terminal identifier and the date time of the transaction and the like. Accordingly the systems and methods of the present application can maintain a history of transactions tied to the user s biometrically authenticated identity. The historical information and trends are also maintained and auditing and non repudiation of transactions occurs based on the linkage between the mobile device the transaction terminal and the individual user s profile and transaction accounts.

Then at step the system server transmits an authorization notification indicating whether the user has been authorized to conduct the transaction at the transaction terminal. The authorization notification can be transmitted to the transaction terminal thereby advancing the transaction at the terminal in response to a successful authorization or denying the transaction in response to unsuccessful authentication. It should be understood that the authorization notification can be transmitted directly to the transaction terminal or indirectly via a remote computing device say a banking network associated with the transaction terminal

In some implementations if the system server is configured to authenticate the user and not authorize the requested transaction the authorization notification can simply notify the transaction terminal that the user was successfully authenticated. The authorization notification can also pass information included in the transaction request to the banking network and or transaction terminal enabling the banking network or terminal to further process the financial transaction accordingly.

In some implementations if the system server is configured to authorize all or part of the requested transaction the authorization notification can provide specific instructions to the transaction terminal for advancing the transaction. For example the authorization notification can instruct the transaction terminal to complete the requested financial transaction e.g. dispense cash receive a deposit etc. display options in furtherance of the transaction e.g. selections to withdraw cash transfer funds check balance etc. and the like as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

In some implementations an authorization notification can also be transmitted to the mobile device prompting the user to conduct one or more steps of the financial transaction using the mobile device . For example the system server can cause the mobile device to present the user with various options receive the user s selections. The system server can process the user inputs and cause the financial transaction to advance accordingly at the transaction terminal . In this manner the user can interact with either the mobile device or the transaction terminal or a combination thereof to perform the financial transaction.

In the event of a user not being authenticated the system server can also cause the terminal and or the mobile device to notify the user with an error message and can prompt the user to re authenticate the user s biometrics or re enter the transaction details. Alternatively the transaction can be canceled and the system server can cause the user to repeat one or more steps of the process or variations thereof.

It should be appreciated that more or fewer operations can be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations can also be performed in a different order than those described herein. It should also be understood that one or more of the steps can be performed by the mobile device and or on other computing devices e.g. user device system server and remote computing device .

It should be noted that although much of the foregoing description has been directed to systems for processing financial transactions at an ATM the computing devices networks and the transaction processing steps are presented as a non limiting exemplary environment in which the systems and methods disclosed herein can be employed. It can be appreciated that the arrangement of computing devices and transaction processing steps can vary according to the particular type of transaction as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

At this juncture it should be noted that although much of the foregoing description has been directed to systems and methods for securely authenticating a financial transaction at a transaction terminal the systems and methods disclosed herein can be similarly deployed and or implemented in scenarios situations and settings far beyond the referenced scenarios. It can be readily appreciated that system for authenticating a financial transaction at a transaction terminal can be effectively employed in practically any scenario in which an event is being organized. It is to be understood that like numerals in the drawings represent like elements through the several figures and that not all components and or steps described and illustrated with reference to the figures are required for all embodiments or arrangements.

Thus illustrative embodiments and arrangements of the present systems and methods provide a computer implemented method computer system and computer program product for authenticating a financial transaction at a transaction terminal. The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments and arrangements. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams can represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes can be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in each and any of the following claims.

