---

title: System and method for situational location relevant invocable speed reference
abstract: Situational location dependent information is transmitted from a server data processing system to a receiving data processing system. A candidate delivery event associated with a current positional attribute of the receiving data processing system is recognized and a situational location of the remote data processing system is determined. The candidate delivery event may be a location and/or direction change, device state change, or movement exceeding a movement tolerance. A set of delivery content from a deliverable content database is transmitted from the server data processing system to the receiving data processing system according to the situational location of the receiving data processing system, and according to delivery constraints.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317867&OS=09317867&RS=09317867
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09317867
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150223
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 669 422 filed Nov. 5 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 963 686 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 224 190 filed Sep. 1 2011 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 772 909 filed May 3 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 031 050 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 190 filed Jun. 22 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 710 290 issued May 4 2010 which is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 11 464 671 filed Aug. 15 2006 now abandoned entitled System and Method for Proactive Content Delivery by Situational Location which is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 10 823 386 filed on Apr. 12 2004 entitled System and Method for Proactive Content Delivery By Situational Location now U.S. Pat. No. 7 187 997 issued Mar. 6 2007 which is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 10 167 532 filed Jun. 11 2002 entitled Method and System for Proactive Content Delivery by Situational Location now U.S. Pat. No. 6 731 238 issued May 4 2004 which is a divisional of application Ser. No. 09 589 328 filed on Jun. 7 2000 entitled System and Method for Proactive Content Delivery By Situational Location now U.S. Pat. No. 6 456 234 issued Sep. 24 2002. The application herein claims the benefit of priority of all of the above listed patent applications and hereby incorporates by reference in their entirety the said patent applications.

The present invention relates generally to location dependent delivery of information to mobile data processing systems and more particularly to a system for pushing situational location dependent content to data processing system devices traveling to locations for or in directions of that place which delivery content is designated as deliverable.

The boom of the internet has greatly provided information to mobile users through wireless web server connected devices such as laptops personal digital assistants PDAs and telephones. People with an internet enabled device can access yahoo.com yahoo is a trademark of Yahoo corporation and other internet connected resources. There are also Global Positioning System GPS devices that enable mobile users to know exactly where they are on a particular map. Users with GPS device functionality can further manually enter their known location into an internet MAP directory service e.g. yahoo.com Maps and then provide a target address they want to go to. Step by step instructions are then provided to the user for how to get to the destination from the current location. Some GPS devices provide local processing for directing and narrating to a driver. Mating automated location finding systems with internet travel direction services is an attractive blend.

Cadillac recently announced the OnStar program with sales of Cadillac automobiles Cadillac and OnStar are trademarks of General Motors corporation . A person is enabled with calling upon an OnStar Advisor 7 days a week 24 hours a day with the press of a button. An emergency call for example 911 or for a disabled Cadillac vehicle allows a driver to instantly call upon wireless connected assistance. The driver may also call upon the OnStar Advisor for directions to a destination. The Advisor has access to automatic processing for determination of the vehicle s current location in case of auto theft a disabled vehicle or assisting with directions. The Advisor can also remotely unlock the vehicle should the driver lock the keys in the car. In effect Cadillac drivers have full time wireless connected assistance around the clock for many reasons. While the location determination of the vehicle is automatic there remain manual processes performed by the Advisor. Automation of some of these processes is desirable.

Many internet services derive their revenue stream from advertising. Advertisers pay to have their content delivered to users who access web site and web server interfaces. Advertisers desire to target their audience at the most appropriate time. Knowing the location of a user as being relevant to a particular advertisement is desirable. Automating the delivery of the content is desirable.

A method is needed for a low cost business model that enables the efficient configuration of deliverable content for automatic delivery to mobile users based on their situational location that is relevant to receive such content.

The present invention provides transmission of situational location dependent information from a server data processing system SDPS to a receiving data processing system RDPS . The server data processing system SDPS communicates with the receiving data processing system RDPS by pushing content i.e. proactive content delivery when appropriate rather than in response to a user query. A candidate delivery event associated with a current positional attribute of the receiving data processing system is recognized and a situational location of the remote data processing system is determined. The candidate delivery event may be a location and or direction change device state change or movement exceeding a movement tolerance. The situational location of the remote data processing system may be its location direction location and direction proximity to a location state change or location and or direction relative to a previous location and or direction or combinations thereof. At the SDPS a set of delivery content from a deliverable content database is retrieved according to the situational location of the RDPS and according to system delivery constraints and or configured user delivery constraints. The SDPS transmits any applicable content found to the RDPS. The delivery content is configurable by authorized administrators in a manner that enables the configured content for immediate delivery should a RDPS meet the criteria of the associated situational location and delivery constraints.

Various embodiments with respect to recognizing a candidate delivery event and determining a situational location include 

A situational location is completely determined for the RDPS upon the candidate delivery event. Content that can be delivered is fully configurable of any type and can be instantly activated for candidate delivery upon convenient administration. As well known in the art of software installation the present invention may be installed to a variety of network embodiments and underlying operating systems through installation parameters or as distinct installations for the particular platform. Preferably an internet connection is used for configuring deliverable content and for the interoperation of communications between the RDPS and SDPS.

The present invention enables a user of a RDPS to be made aware of content that is applicable for the current situational location of the user. Depending on the application of the present invention the content and configurations will take on a variety of themes.

For example in an outdoor wireless embodiment of the present invention advertisement content can be configured by paying customer advertisers through an internet web interface and then automatically delivered to people when the people are in a location or heading path to a location for reasonable delivery of the content to their automobile installed or handheld RDPS. For example as a driver or pedestrian i.e. user approaches a retail store with a mobile RDPS a configured advertisement of a special deal at the retail store can be proactively delivered i.e. pushed to the user automatically on behalf of the store. Likewise an indoor wireless embodiment of the present invention enables the driver or pedestrian now a shopper inside the store to receive configured content to a shopping cart mounted or handheld RDPS directing the shopper to specific sales items as the shopper moves about the inside of the store.

In another application a policeman may activate a mobile police automobile device i.e. RDPS in a police car for automatic delivery of a person s criminal record as the policeman drives by the location of a person s house. The police establishment configures criminal record content or pointers thereto along with the location of the residence that is believed to harbor the person with a record. As the policeman drives by locations with addresses of known offenders the RDPS displays applicable criminal data. Of course the policeman can enable or disable the functionality as needed.

In another application a traveling vehicle for example a touring bus carries tourists for a narrated drive through a geographic area. Currently there are human narrators for providing narration of sites and landmarks to people of the narrated drive. The present invention allows configuring deliverable content for locations on the touring bus path so that an automated narrator RDPS installed in the bus can be provided to people on the bus. For example an RDPS providing audio video multimedia or combination thereof communicates narration content to people on the touring bus automatically as locations are encountered or driven by.

In another application a person attending a large park e.g. Disney World Disney World is a trademark of Walt Disney corporation could simply carry a RDPS and receive content to a handheld device for what attraction lies ahead based on the current location and direction of the person. The person would not have to consult a directory or ask where to find something. Informative content would be proactively delivered rather than reactively in response to a person s manual query to a service or question to a human being.

In yet a further example a valuable use would be for emergencies such as when a child is kidnapped. Currently there is an Amber Alert mechanism in Dallas Ft. Worth Tex. where radio stations broadcast an emergency message along with a distinguishable series of tones. This enables any pertinent information known about the kidnapper and child to be broadcast immediately to everyone with the radio on. The present invention enables the emergency broadcast to be immediately configured and then communicated to everyone with a RDPS for example with a wireless internet connection. A picture of the victim and other multimedia information could be delivered along with audio immediately.

In still a further use of the present invention garage sale and estate sale advertisements could be configured on behalf of paying customers that would otherwise use a newspaper classified section. As drivers become in reasonably close proximity to the sale in the desired time window advertisement content would be proactively delivered to a wireless RDPS installed or handheld in the automobile.

Thus there are many applications for the present invention all accomplished through simply changing the way the present invention is used. Content is pushed out to receiving devices at the most appropriate times. Users do not pull the content with a query.

It is therefore an advantage of the present invention in supporting a variety of applications and uses. The way the invention is used makes it applicable to a wide range of applications. For example a deliverable content database can be configured with content that is appropriate for the particular application. Situational location parameters associated with the particular application are also variable provided the installed methodology is utilized consistently. For example world coordinates GPS coordinates regional coordinates MAPSCO references Application Address Book locations and directions a user s caller id a cell number in a cellular network and like means used to describe a location can be used. Directional information of North South East West Northeast Southeast Northwest Southwest Up Down Left Right Straight Back and like methods used to describe a direction can be used. Further still there are delivery constraints that can be set up for a system or configured by a user which provides flexibility in adapting to a variety of applications.

It is another advantage of the present invention in providing deliverable content to a person based on the situational location of the person. Content is pushed to a user s RDPS when it is most appropriate for the user to see the content.

It is another advantage of the present invention in automatically recognizing a candidate delivery event of a RDPS and automatically determining a situational location of the RDPS. A user is not burdened with providing information on a query. The present invention automatically determines when content should be delivered and then automatically and proactively delivers it. Content is pushed to the user of the RDPS . The user is not burdened with pulling content via a query.

It is a further advantage of the present invention to deliver any type variety or combination of content. The content is fully configurable by an authorized administrator who may be a paying customer for the privilege of performing configurations. Upon configuration the content is immediately and instantly activated for proactive delivery to any RDPS meeting the configured criteria. Content may be audio video graphical textual multimedia intranet internet web address es activated for transposable selection image or any combination thereof.

It is another advantage in maintaining a history of delivered content at the RDPS with information that is useful for later browsing. Contained therein is information relevant to the delivered content. Additionally provided is an invocable speed address enabling the user to transpose to a web address or perform a speed dial phone call that is associated with the delivered content.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is providing new and useful query functionality for querying the total number of known receiving data processing systems for a particular situational location querying any content configured for delivery to a particular situational location with a comprehensive variety of query parameters and querying up to a maximum threshold number of deliverable content instances for a particular location in a manner which automatically determines containing ascending locations if necessary until the specified number is met.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

With reference now to detail of the drawings the present invention is described. Obvious errorhandling is omitted from the flowcharts in order to focus on the key aspects of the present invention.

In another embodiment of the present invention GPS satellites such as satellite satellite and satellite provide information as is well known in the art to GPS devices on earth for triangulation locating of the GPS device. In this embodiment a RDPS has integrated GPS functionality so that the RDPS monitors its positional attribute s . When the RDPS determines a candidate delivery event it communicates parameters to the controller by way of the nearest base station. Thus positional attribute information is provided by the RDPS to the SDPS. The RDPS is again known by a unique identifier for example a caller id device identifier or like appropriate unique handle.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention a physically connected device for example telephone computer PDA telephone and fax machine may be newly connected to a network. Each is a RDPS. Physical connections include copper wire optical fiber or the like. Devices are known by a unique identifier for example a caller id device identifier physical or logical network address or like appropriate unique handle. When the RDPS is detected for being newly located the SDPS determines the candidate delivery event. The SDPS may execute at an Automatic Response Unit ARU a telephony switch for example telephony switch a web server for example connected through a gateway or a like data processing system that communicates with the RDPS. RDPS detection may be a result of the RDPS initiating a communication with the SDPS directly or indirectly. Thus a user may connect his laptop to a hotel network initiate a communication with the SDPS and the SDPS determines that the user is in a different location than the previous communication. A local area network LAN may contain a variety of connected devices each an RDPS that later becomes connected to a local area network at a different location such as a PDA a server computer a printer an internet protocol telephone a computer or the like. Hard copy presentation could be made to printer and fax . Electronic content could be delivered to any RDPS.

Current technology enables devices to communicate with each other and other systems through a variety of heterogeneous system and communication methods. Current technology allows executable processing to run on diverse devices and systems. Current technology allows communications between the devices and or systems over a plethora of methodologies at close or long distance. Many technologies also exist for automatic locating of devices. It is well known how to have an interoperating communications system that comprises a plurality of individual systems communicating with each other with one or more protocols. As is further known in the art of developing software executable processing of the present invention may be developed to run on a particular target data processing system in a particular manner or customized at install time to execute on a particular data processing system in a particular manner.

TDOA is conventionally calculated from the time it takes for a communication to occur from the RDPS back to the RDPS via the base tower or alternatively from a base tower back to that base tower via the RDPS. AOA is conventionally performed through calculations of the angle by which a signal from the RDPS encounters the base tower antenna. Simple triangle geometry is then used to calculate a location. The AOA antenna is typically of a phased array type.

The controller at block may communicate with other controllers when base stations in other cellular clusters are picking up a signal for example when the RDPS roams. In any case at block the controller s determines the strongest signal base stations needed for locating the RDPS at block . The strongest 3 or 2 or 4 as discussed above are used. Thereafter block accesses base station location information for base stations determined at block . The base station provides location anchors used to relatively determine the location of the RDPS. Then block uses the TDOA or AOA information together with known base station locations to calculate the RDPS location. Blocks through are well known to those skilled in art. Thereafter block accesses historical RDPS location information and block performs housekeeping by pruning location history data for the RDPS by time number of entries or other criteria. Block then determines a direction of the RDPS based on previous location information. Block may perform Artificial Intelligence AI to determine where the traveler may be going by consulting many or all of the location history data. Block may also consider when and or where a candidate delivery event CADE was generated for a direction change in order to cause certain flow from block . Block calculates how much e.g. distance the RDPS has moved since the previous location that caused a candidate delivery event CADE generation for the RDPS event generated Y N field in location history data . Thereafter block compares the movement since the last CADE generation and if the distance exceeds a movement tolerance then block posts generates a CADE to a present invention service handling RDPS situational location changes. The movement tolerance may be a system wide setting for all RDPS devices particular to a type of RDPS or specific for an RDPS.

If at block movement did not exceed the tolerance then block checks for a direction change as determined at block . If at block the direction did change then a CADE is generated at block . If at block the direction of the RDPS did not change then block appends an appropriate entry to the location history data see . Block also flows to block . Blocks through determine if a CADE is to be generated and if so a CADE is generated at block . Blocks through determine part or all i.e. a subset of the situational location depending on the installation. processing is continuous for every RDPS in the wireless network 7 days a week 24 hours a day.

Thereafter block accesses historical RDPS location information and block performs housekeeping by pruning the location history data for the RDPS by time number of entries or other criteria. Block then determines a direction of the RDPS based on previous location information. Block may perform Artificial Intelligence AI to determine where the traveler may be going by consulting much or all of the location history data. Block may also consider when and or where a candidate delivery event CADE was generated for a direction change in order to cause certain flow from block . Block calculates how much e.g. distance the RDPS has moved since the previous location that caused a candidate delivery event CADE generation for the RDPS event generated Y N field in location history data . Thereafter block compares the movement since the last CADE generation and if the distance exceeds a movement tolerance then block posts generates a CADE to the present invention system event manager of the RDPS. The movement tolerance may be a system or user configured setting.

If at block movement did not exceed the tolerance then block checks for a direction change as determined at block . If at block the direction did change then a CADE is generated to the system event manager at block . If at block the direction of the RDPS did not change then block appends an appropriate entry to the location history data see . Block also flows to block . Blocks through determine if a CADE is to generated and if so a CADE is generated at block . Blocks through determine part or all i.e. a subset of the situational location depending on the installation. processing is continuous for the RDPS as long as the RDPS is enabled.

The CADE in this example is a result of a simple location change. Any further situational location determination task remains for the system event manager. An alternative embodiment to block would further include processing of blocks through to determine part or all i.e. a subset of the situational location so that a CADE is generated at block only if the situation warrants it.

In this example embodiment of using the present invention a shopper with a grocery cart receives content at the RDPS as the shopping cart is navigated throughout the store. Special deal sales or other promotional content is pushed automatically by the present invention to the RDPS of the shopping cart at appropriate situational locations of the shopping cart. A store representative will manage what content to deliver through convenient configuration of the present invention. The store will provide RDPS equipped shopping carts or may provide handheld RDPS devices so that shoppers will get the most of their experience by automatically receiving content that is appropriate to the shopper s situational location in the store.

The CADE in this example is a result of a simple location change. Any further situational location determination task remains for the SDPS event handler. An alternative embodiment to block would further include processing of blocks through to determine part or all i.e. a subset of the situational location so that a CADE is generated at block only if the situation warrants it.

Authorization id field contains a handle to the user who configured the database record for example a password user identifier or the like may be encrypted . Content links field contains a YES NO flag for whether there are multiple content fields associated with the database record . A separate database entity not shown for example a database table can be maintained with 3 fields one containing a matching rec id field to associate the content to the deliverable content database record one for the content type like content type field and one for the content like content field . There may be a plurality of database records in the separate database entity that are associated with the deliverable content database record . The value in the rec id field will be used to join all content items.

Applications specific data fields are available for the SDPS being an integrated solution with some other service. Location field direction field time criteria field and delivery activation setting s field together form the situational location information associated with the content which establishes a delivery.

The data processing system may also include a display device interface for driving a connected display device not shown . The data processing system may further include one or more input peripheral interface s to input devices such as a keyboard telephone keypad Personal Digital Assistant PDA writing implements mouse voice interface or the like. User input i.e. user events to the data processing system are inputs accepted by the input peripheral interface s . The data processing system may still further include one or more output peripheral interface s to output devices such as a printer facsimile device or the like.

Data processing system will include a communications interface for communicating to another data processing system via analog signal waves digital signal waves infrared proximity copper wire optical fiber or the like. Other data processing system is an RDPS when data processing system is an SDPS. Other processing system is an SDPS when data processing system is an RDPS. In any case the RDPS and SDPS are said to be interoperating when communicating. Thus the RDPS and SDPS form an interoperating communications system between which data may be communicated.

Data processing system programs also called control logic may be completely inherent in the processor being a customized semiconductor or may be stored in main memory for execution by processor as the result of a read only memory ROM load not shown or may be loaded from a secondary storage device into main memory for execution by processor . Such programs when executed enable the data processing system to perform features of the present invention as discussed herein. Accordingly such data processing system programs represent controllers of the data processing system.

In one embodiment the invention is directed to a control logic program product comprising a processor readable medium having control logic software stored therein. The control logic when executed by processor causes the processor to perform functions of the invention as described herein.

In another embodiment the invention is implemented primarily in hardware for example using a prefabricated component state machine or multiple state machines in a semiconductor element such as processor .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate various modifications to the data processing system without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Data processing system as discussed is representative of a RDPS of the present invention. Data processing system as discussed is representative of a SDPS of the present invention.

An alternate embodiment of will implement a multithreaded system wherein events are handled asynchronously as they occur.

If block determines the RDPS was not turned off then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to enable communications with the SDPS then block establishes communications with the SDPS if not already established and block consults the current delivery setting. In one embodiment block through may be processed just as the result of a wireless device being powered on. If block determines that the content delivery setting for receiving situational location dependent content is enabled then block communicates with the SDPS for inserting a registry data record into the registry data. Thereafter block sets a RDPS user interface indicator showing that communications to the SDPS is enabled and processing returns to block of by way of off page connector . If block determines the delivery setting is not enabled then processing continues to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to enable communications to the SDPS then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to disable SDPS communications then block communicates with the SDPS to remove its registry data record from registry data block terminates the communications session gracefully if required depending on the RDPS embodiment block sets the communications to SDPS user interface indicator to disabled and processing continues back to block . In one embodiment block through may be processed just as the result of a wireless device being powered off.

If block determines the user did not select to disable communications to the SDPS then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to modify the RDPS content delivery setting then the user modifies the setting at block the delivery setting is set accordingly at block . Preferably blocks allow a user to toggle the content delivery setting. No content will be delivered when this setting is disabled. Being registered with the SDPS constitutes being eligible for delivery. Alternative embodiments won t have such a feature. The content delivery setting is a user configured delivery constraint. Block also sets and an indicator in the user interface for displaying that setting and block communicates with the SDPS to insert or remove its registry data record should the setting be different than previous. Of course appropriate error handling is performed by block if there is no communications enabled. Thereafter processing continues to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to modify the content delivery setting then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to modify the movement tolerance then the user modifies a validated movement tolerance at block the movement tolerance is set at block and processing continues back to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to modify the movement tolerance then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected a content delivery indicator as maintained in a transmission history data record for deliverable content from the SDPS then block communicates with the SDPS using the rec id field . In one embodiment the user peruses the transmission history data in response to receiving a content delivery indicator from the SDPS. In another embodiment correlation is maintained between individual user interface indicators to their associated transmission history data record for allowing the user to simply select the indicator in the user interface for communicating with the SDPS to deliver the associated content. Providing a visual and or audible presentation of the indicator is well known in the art and may be implemented with a variety of methods. Block makes the request for content to the SDPS with the rec id . Thereafter via a received system event blocks through handle receipt delivery and RDPS user interface presentation of the content in a manner appropriate to the content type from the SDPS. Processing continues from block back to block .

If block determines that the user did not select an indicator of deliverable content then processing continues to block by way of off page connector . If block determines that the user selected to configure interests or filters then block interfaces with the user to configure interests or filters which are saved locally at block and processing continues back to block by way of off page connector . Any configured interests and filters are communicated to the SDPS at blocks and as part of registration. Interests field and filter criteria field are set with data configured at block . The RDPS must de register and re register with new settings. In an alternative embodiment block communicates with the SDPS to update the RDPS registry data record .

If block determines that the user did not select to configure interests or filters then processing continues to block . If block determines the user selected to perform a situational location query then the user specifies validated parameters discussed with at block . Thereafter block communicates an appropriate formatted request to the SDPS. Thereafter via a received system event blocks through handle receipt delivery and RDPS user interface presentation of the content in a manner appropriate to the content type from the SDPS. Processing leaves block and returns to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to perform a situational location query then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to query the number of known RDPS devices at a location s i.e. a client count request then block interfaces with the user to specify valid parameters including situational location information and time criteria and processing continues to block which was described. A content specification parameter may also be specified for retrieving the situational location content as well. Time criteria embodiments include any time window in history a current time window of request transmission of request SDPS receipt of request or processing the request or a truncated precision time. Truncated precision time allows specifying time windows e.g. 12 04 pm implies 4 minutes after 12 00 pm and additionally any number of seconds up to and not including 5 minutes after 12 00 pm .

If block determines that the user did not select to query the number of RDPS devices at a location s i.e. a client count request then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to browse transmission history data then block interfaces with the user until he either exits or selects information from the speed reference information field from a transmission history data record . Preferably block permits scrolling transmission history data records with fields columnized. If at block the user selected information of field then block automatically performs the action an automatic dialing of a telephone number or automatic transposition to a web page. Speed reference information field is preferably related to content that was delivered as referenced by rec id field . Thereafter processing continues back to block . If block determines that the user exited from block then processing continues back to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to browse the transmission history data then processing stops at block .

Note that some RDPS embodiments will not require blocks through because there may not be an active session required to have communications between the RDPS and SDPS.

If block determines that a CADE is to be generated to the SDPS then processing continues to block . If block determines that the content delivery setting is set to enabled then block formats and issues a CADE request to the SDPS and processing continues to block by way of off page connector .

If block determines that the content delivery setting is not enabled then processing continues to block . If block determines that a CADE is not to be generated then processing continues to block .

If block determines that the system event was not for a RDPS positional attribute change from the location management system then processing continues to block . If block determines that the system event is a transmission from the SDPS with content to deliver or a content delivery indicator to content then block performs housekeeping by pruning transmission history data records . Pruning is performed by time number of entries or some other criteria. Block flows to block where the transmission history data is checked to see if the rec id field for the content or content delivery indicator communicated with the system event is already present in a transmission history data record . If the same content was already delivered a rec id field will match the rec id field for pending presentation. The system event contains parameters including rec id field with an indicator status for allowing the user to retrieve the content at a later time. If block determines the rec id field of the event is already contained in the transmission history data then processing continues back to block with no delivery processing. If block determines it is not a redundant delivery then block communicates with the SDPS for retrieval of the location field direction field content type field short text field and speed reference info field . Any type of content is presented to the RDPS user interface in the appropriate manner. Various embodiments may limit types of content using a variety of methods located at the RDPS or SDPS. Additionally either content field and linked content via content links field is retrieved or content delivery indicator s status is retrieved. Thereafter block appends a transmission history data record to the RDPS transmission history data and processing continues to block . Blocks through handle all content or indicator delivery to the RDPS preferably asynchronously to all other RDPS processing.

An alternative embodiment to processing will not check history for redundant content delivery. Or a user may enable or disable the feature.

Block may also include applying client located filters for filtering out content. In such an embodiment a filter criteria field may not be required.

If block determines that the administrator selected to list his deliverable content database records then the deliverable content database is searched using the administrator s authorization id against the authorization id field . Any deliverable content database records belonging to the administrator are put into a scrollable list at block and processing continues back to block . Options are available for appropriately presenting the content keywords data record and linked content via content links field . The scrollable list preferably columnizes the displayable fields and .

If block determines the user did not select to list his deliverable content database configurations then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to delete a deliverable content data record from the scrollable list then block deletes the record from the content deliverable database along with any associated keywords data record and linked content via content links field . Thereafter block updates the scrollable list data and processing continues back to block .

If block determines that the administrator did not select to delete then processing continues to block . If block determines the administrator selected to add a deliverable content database record then block interfaces with the administrator for validated entry. Thereafter block generates a unique number record identifier for rec id field block inserts into the deliverable content database block inserts any associated keyword data record to the keyword data and processing continues back to block . Keywords specification allows associating delivery content to a user s interests or filters in registration data for establishing a basis of delivery. Block provides appropriate interfaces for specifying and reviewing all types of content. Block additionally populates linked content if content links field is used. Once a deliverable content database record is inserted it is instantly activated for candidate delivery. The delivery is proactive when the RDPS situational location is automatically determined.

If block determines the user did not select to add a deliverable content database record then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to modify location hierarchy data records then the user modifies the data at block and processing continues back to block . If block determines the user did not select to modify location hierarchy data then processing continues to block where other user actions are handled. Other user actions include scrolling window manipulation exiting the administration interface or other navigation not relevant for discussion. Processing then continues back to block .

Preferably the block option only presents itself to a special super user administrator who is unlikely to cause problems for all other administrated configurations. It is very important that all data be maintained with integrity by blocks and . For example a deliverable content database record deleted should not be referenced by transmission history data . The rec id field will no longer be valid. processing may include an update deliverable database record option in alternative embodiments.

If block determines that the event is an RDPS registration request then block accesses registration data to see if the RDPS unique device id is already present i.e. already registered in a device id field . Thereafter if block determines the RDPS does not already have a registration data record registered then block inserts a registration data record into registration data. Much of the information may be provided as parameters to the event or alternatively block communicates with the RDPS to gather needed field information. Then block provides an acknowledgement to the RDPS or an error if already registered. Processing continues to block by way of off page connector . If block determines that the RDPS was newly registered i.e. an error was not provided then block searches the deliverable content database for delivery activation setting s field with a deliver on RDPS registration bit enabled. Thereafter if block determines there are deliverable content database records with the bit set then block processes applicable content transmission see and processing stops at block . If block determines that there was no records then processing stops at block . If block determines that the RDPS was already registered existing entry then processing continues to block . Thus a situational location change may be an RDPS state changed to registered.

If block determines that the event was not a registration request then processing continues to block . If block determines that the event is a de registration request then block access the registration data for the device id field provided with the event parameters and if block determines one is found then it is deleted at block and then an acknowledgement is provided at block with processing continuing from there as was described except block searches for the deliver on RDPS termination bit enabled. If block determines that a registration data record was not found then an error is provided at block and processing continues as previously described. Thus a situational location change may be an RDPS state changed to terminated.

If block determines that the event was not for an RDPS de registration then processing continues to block . If block determines that the RDPS user selected to retrieve content for a content delivery indicator previously sent to the RDPS by the SDPS then block accesses the deliverable content database by the rec id field provided as parameters to the event processing continues to block where the applicable content is processed see and processing stops at block .

If block determines that the event was not an indicator selection request then processing continues to block . If block determines the event is a CADE generated by the RDPS then block parses parameters from the request for example location and direction. Thereafter block completes determination of the situational location from the parameters and converts into a form suitable for searching the deliverable content database. Block consults location hierarchy data and determines the date time to further refine the RDPS situational location. Then block retrieves deliverable content database records using RDPS parameters and any applicable location hierarchy data records to fields and . Also used is data in interests field and filter criteria of the RDPS for comparing against keywords field in keywords data associated with content deliverable database records . Delivery activation setting s field is consulted as well. In some embodiments the capabilities of the RDPS are maintained in field to ensure no content of an inappropriate type is delivered. Thus field may also be utilized. If block determines that content was found then block prunes transmission history data records by time depth of records etc. block accesses the SDPS transmission history data and block continues. If block determines that the content was not already transmitted device id field and rec id field don t match any record in transmission history then processing continues to block for processing described by . If block determines that the content was transmitted then processing stops at block . If block determines content applies then processing stops at block .

If block determines that the event was not a CADE then processing continues to block by way of off page connector . If block determines that the event is for a situational location query then block searches deliverable content database records with parameters from the RDPS positional attribute parameters from the RDPS with the location field and direction field time criteria with time criteria field and so on. All fields associated to record are searchable through parameters. Block also applies location hierarchy data depending on a zoom specification parameter. The zoom specification allows control over the block search algorithm for whether or not to use hierarchy data and whether or not to check descending locations ascending locations up to a maximum threshold parameter of content both descending and ascending respectively up to a threshold of content or neither ascending nor descending hierarchy data functionality. The maximum threshold parameter may be specified regardless and optionally limits the amount of content to deliver to the RDPS by size number of content instances or number of hierarchical data record nestings to search. Further still block may use field as described above or the user s interest and or filters as described above. Information for records found are transmitted as content to the RDPS at block see and processing stops at block .

If block determines that the event was not a situational location query then processing continues to block . If block determines that the request is a client count query request then block retrieves the known number of RDPS devices at the specified situational location e.g. location direction given specified time criteria the number of transmission history data records for unique values in rec id field that contain a date time stamp according to the user s specified time criteria. A null time criteria parameter implies use the current time of processing the request with a truncated precision for a time window. Otherwise a specified time window was entered by the user or automatically inserted as a parameter by the RDPS or SDPS. Presence of the content specification parameter implies to additionally retrieve content from the deliverable content database as described by blocks through . This allows providing information e.g. graphical to complement presentation of the total number of RDPS devices identified. Processing then continues to block for transmitting the count as content.

If block determines that the event was not a client count query request then processing continues to block where any other SDPS event request is processed as is appropriate for the particular service application and processing stops at block .

If block determines there may be too much information to unquestionably transmit then block transmits content delivery indicator s information to the RDPS and processing continues to block . Thus the total size of the transmission is a transmission delivery constraint affecting the delivery information of the content. Of course could always transmit an indicator or a transmission delivery constraint size could be configured to cause content delivery indicators delivered all or most of the time.

Block may use a system size setting e.g. number of bytes or may use size information relative to RDPS capabilities maintained in communications bind information field .

The reader should make note of the nearly identical descriptions and enumerations between the figures in different embodiments. The rightmost two digits of the block numbering have been preserved to facilitate correlation. correlates and so on. and are applicable to both embodiments SDPS CADE generation and RDPS CADE generation.

An alternate embodiment of will implement a multithreaded system wherein events are handled asynchronously as they occur.

If block determines the RDPS was not turned off then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to enable communications with the SDPS then block establishes communications with the SDPS if not already established and block consults the current delivery setting. In one embodiment block through may be processed just as the result of a wireless device being powered on. If block determines that the content delivery setting for receiving situational location dependent content is enabled then block communicates with the SDPS for inserting a registry data record into the registry data. Thereafter block sets a RDPS user interface indicator showing that communications to the SDPS is enabled and processing returns to block of by way of off page connector . If block determines the delivery setting is not enabled then processing continues to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to enable communications to the SDPS then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to disable SDPS communications then block communicates with the SDPS to remove its registry data record from registry data block terminates the communications session gracefully if required depending on the RDPS embodiment block sets the communications to SDPS user interface indicator to disabled and processing continues back to block . In one embodiment block through may be processed just as the result of a wireless device being powered off.

If block determines the user did not select to disable communications to the SDPS then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to modify the RDPS content delivery setting then the user modifies the setting at block the delivery setting is set accordingly at block . Preferably blocks allow a user to toggle the content delivery setting. No content will be delivered when this setting is disabled. Being registered with the SDPS constitutes being eligible for delivery. Alternative embodiments won t have such a feature. Block also sets an indicator in the user interface for displaying that setting and block communicates with the SDPS to insert or remove its registry data record should the setting be different than previous. Of course appropriate error handling is performed by block if there is no communications enabled. Thereafter processing continues to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to modify the content delivery setting then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected a content delivery indicator as maintained in a transmission history data record for deliverable content from the SDPS then block communicates with the SDPS using the rec id field . In one embodiment the user peruses the transmission history data in response to receiving a content delivery indicator from the SDPS. In another embodiment correlation is maintained between individual user interface indicators to their associated transmission history data record for allowing the user to simply select the indicator in the user interface for communicating with the SDPS to deliver the associated content. Providing a visual and or audible presentation of the indicator is well known in the art and may be implemented with a variety of methods. Block makes the request for content to the SDPS with the rec id . Thereafter via a received system event blocks through handle receipt delivery and RDPS user interface presentation of the content in a manner appropriate to the content type from the SDPS. Processing continues from block back to block .

If block determines that the user did not select an indicator of deliverable content then processing continues to block by way of off page connector . If block determines that the user selected to configure interests or filters then block interfaces with the user to configure interests or filters which are saved locally at block and processing continues back to block by way of off page connector . Any configured interests and filters are communicated to the SDPS at blocks and as part of registration. Interests field and filter criteria field are set with data configured at block . The RDPS must de register and re register with new settings. In an alternative embodiment block communicates with the SDPS to update the RDPS registry data record .

If block determines that the user did not select to configure interests or filters then processing continues to block . If block determines the user selected to perform a situational location query then the user specifies validated parameters discussed with at block . Thereafter block communicates an appropriate formatted request to the SDPS and thereafter via a received system event blocks through handle receipt delivery and RDPS user interface presentation of the content in a manner appropriate to the content type from the SDPS. Processing leaves block and returns to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to perform a situational location query then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to query the number of known RDPS devices at a location s i.e. a client count request then block interfaces with the user to specify valid parameters including situational location information and time criteria and processing continues to block which was described. A content specification parameter may also be specified for retrieving the situational location content as well. Time criteria embodiments include any time window in history a current time window of request transmission of request SDPS receipt of request or processing the request or a truncated precision time. If block determines that the user did not select to query the number of RDPS devices at a location s i.e. a client count request then processing continues to block . If block determines that the user selected to browse transmission history data then block interfaces with the user until he either exits or selects information from the speed reference information field from a transmission history data record . Preferably block permits scrolling transmission history data records with fields columnized. If at block the user selected information of field then block automatically performs the action an automatic dialing of a telephone number or automatic transposition to a web page. Speed reference information field is preferably related to content that was delivered as referenced by rec id field . Thereafter processing continues back to block . If block determines that the user exited from block then processing continues back to block .

If block determines that the user did not select to browse the transmission history data then processing stops at block .

Note that some RDPS embodiments will not require blocks through because there may not be an active session required to have communications between the RDPS and SDPS. In one embodiment the movement tolerance is communicated to the SDPS at blocks and and then inserted to movement tolerance field .

An alternative embodiment to processing will not check history for redundant content delivery. Or a user may enable or disable the feature.

Block may also include applying client located filters for filtering out content. In such an embodiment a filter criteria field may not be required.

If block determines that the event is an RDPS registration request then block accesses registration data to see if the RDPS unique device id is already present i.e. already registered in a device id field . Thereafter if block determines the RDPS does not already have a registration data record registered then block inserts a registration data record into registration data. Much of the information may be provided as parameters to the event or alternatively block communicates with the RDPS to gather needed field information. Then block provides an acknowledgement to the RDPS or an error if already registered. Processing continues to block by way of off page connector . If block determines that the RDPS was newly registered i.e. an error was not provided then block searches the deliverable content database for delivery activation setting s field with a deliver on RDPS registration bit enabled. Thereafter if block determines there are deliverable content database records with the bit set then block processes applicable content transmission see and processing stops at block . If block determines that there was no records then processing stops at block . If block determines that the RDPS was already registered existing entry then processing continues to block . Thus a situational location change may be an RDPS state changed to registered.

If block determines that the event was not a registration request then processing continues to block . If block determines that the event is a de registration request then block access the registration data for the device id field provided with the event parameters and if block determines one is found then it is deleted at block and then an acknowledgement is provided at block with processing continuing from there as was described except block searches for the deliver on RDPS termination bit enabled. If block determines that a registration data record was not found then an error is provided at block and processing continues as previously described. Thus a situational location change may be an RDPS state changed to terminated.

If block determines that the event was not for an RDPS de registration then processing continues to block . If block determines that the RDPS user selected to retrieve content for a content delivery indicator previously sent to the RDPS by the SDPS then block accesses the deliverable content database by the rec id field provided as parameters to the event processing continues to block where the applicable content is processed see and processing stops at block .

If block determines that the event was not an indicator selection request then processing continues to block . If block determines the event is a CADE generated by a service of or to the SDPS see and then block parses parameters from the request for example location and direction. Thereafter block completes determination of the situational location from the parameters and converts into a form suitable for searching the deliverable content database. Block consults location hierarchy data and determines the date time to further refine the RDPS situational location. Then block retrieves deliverable content database records using RDPS parameters and any applicable location hierarchy data records to fields and . Also used is data in interests field and filter criteria of the RDPS for comparing against keywords field in keywords data associated with content deliverable database records . Delivery activation setting s field is consulted as well. In some embodiments the capabilities of the RDPS are maintained in field to ensure no content of an inappropriate type is delivered. Thus field may also be utilized. If block determines that content was found then block prunes transmission history data records by time depth of records etc. block accesses the SDPS transmission history data and block continues. If block determines that the content was not already transmitted device id field and rec id field don t match any record in transmission history then processing continues to block for processing described by . If block determines that the content was transmitted then processing stops at block . If block determines content applies then processing stops at block .

If block determines that the event was not a CADE then processing continues to block by way of off page connector . If block determines that the event is for a situational location query then block searches deliverable content database records with parameters from the RDPS positional attribute parameters from the RDPS with the location field and direction field time criteria with time criteria field and so on. All fields associated to record are searchable through parameters. Block also applies location hierarchy data depending on a zoom specification parameter. The zoom specification allows control over the block search algorithm for whether or not to use hierarchy data and whether or not to check descending locations ascending locations up to a maximum threshold parameter of content both descending and ascending respectively up to a threshold of content or neither ascending nor descending hierarchy data functionality. The maximum threshold parameter may be specified regardless and optionally limits the amount of content to deliver to the RDPS by size number of content instances or number of hierarchical data record nestings to search. Further still block may use field as described above or the user s interest and or filters as described above. Information for records found is transmitted as content to the RDPS at block see and processing stops at block .

If block determines that the event was not a situational location query then processing continues to block . If block determines that the request is a client count query request then block retrieves the known number of RDPS devices at the specified situational location e.g. location direction given specified time criteria the number of location history data records for unique values in rec id field that contain a date time stamp according to the user s specified time criteria. A null time criteria parameter implies use the current time of processing the request with a truncated precision for a time window. Otherwise a specified time window was entered by the user or automatically inserted as a parameter by the RDPS or SDPS. Presence of the content specification parameter implies to additionally retrieve content from the deliverable content database as described by blocks through . This allows providing information e.g. graphical to complement presentation of the total number of RDPS devices identified. Processing then continues to block for transmitting the count as content.

If block determines that the event was not a client count query request then processing continues to block where any other SDPS event request is processed as is appropriate for the particular service application and processing stops at block . depicts a flowchart for describing the content transmission aspects. describes processing of blocks and .

In any of the embodiments described above a performance conscious implementation of the present invention including a cache may be pursued given the RDPS has appropriate capability. Without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention deliverable content database records and joined data from them may be stored at an RDPS. The SDPS may transmit a compression of the data to the RDPS for decompression and local maintaining Transmission may be at registration and or performed asynchronously to the RDPS as necessary. Thus the deliverable content database and joined data from it will be accessed locally to the RDPS to prevent real time communication of what could be large amounts of content. processing would include updating any RDPS with a local cache when configuration was complete.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

