---

title: Messaging-enabled unmanned aerial vehicle
abstract: An unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) carries a camera, sends data from the camera, and receives commands. The UAV is connected to a messaging platform. Pictures or video clips received from the UAV are selected and placed in messages broadcast by an account associated with the UAV. Video footage from the camera is live-streamed in a card-type message. Account holders of the messaging platform may control the UAV with commands embedded in messages and directed towards an account associated with the UAV. Controllable elements of the UAV include UAV location, camera orientation, camera subject, UAV-mounted lighting, a UAV-mounted display, a UAV-mounted projector, UAV-mounted speakers, and a detachable payload. UAV control may be determined through democratic means. Some UAV functionality may be triggered through aggregated engagements on the messaging platform. The UAV may include a display screen and/or a microphone to provide for telepresence or interview functionality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09599985&OS=09599985&RS=09599985
owner: Twitter, Inc.
number: 09599985
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150612
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Application No. 62 012 202 filed Jun. 13 2014 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Online social media services such as social networking sites news aggregators blogs and the like provide a rich environment for users to comment on events of interest and communicate with other users. Social media account holders may capture and transmit certain facets of an event e.g. a sporting event a concert performance an awards show a festival a competition to followers of the event. These followers may be other account holders of social media networks who receive social media posts about an event to experience the event from the perspective of the social media account holders at the event. Generally the followers receive posts from account holders that they are connected to or otherwise associated with. To receive adequate coverage of an event followers assemble their own lists of followed account holders who are attending the event. If a follower is not connected to many followed account holders who are attending the event then the follower may not receive adequate coverage of the event. Additionally this configuration may be less than satisfying because the followed account holders may not capture the event in full detail due to issues such as inaccessibility to certain parts of an event or a lack of knowledge about occurrences at that event.

Followers of an event may also have access to an officially distributed feed of the event through a television radio or Internet stream of an event that provide more access or structure. However these too can be lacking from a social media perspective as resource and cost constraints prevent wider coverage so that even an officially distributed feed lacks the multifaceted perspective that social media provides. Additionally an officially distributed feed is generally not responsive to requests to cover different aspects of an event. Although followed account holders of social media that are attending an event may capture and transmit a different perspective on an event their attention is focused mainly on the event rather than documenting the event for a wider range of followers particularly non attendee followers who are account holders.

Additionally most social media events are covered by followed account holders that are present at a particular observed moment of the event. However these followed observers are constrained physically to where they are located and cannot capture a broader perspective on an event or quickly respond to requests to capture geographically dispersed aspects of an event particularly as they occur in real time. Hence media coverage of events may be inadequate to satiate both followed and following account holders of social media services.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One example embodiment of a real time messaging system method and non transitory computer readable storage medium that includes account holders interacting with an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV using a messaging platform. The UAV is autonomous or is piloted from a location remote from where the UAV is present. It is noted that while the descriptions herein are in the context of a UAV the principles described may apply to other unmanned vehicles UV such as remote controlled boats and cars.

In one example embodiment the account holders receive media captured via the UAV and may submit commands for transmission to the UAV. Media captured by the UAV is received and incorporated into a message. The message including the captured media is broadcast to accounts of the messaging platform. Interactions related to the UAV are received from client devices of account holders. Based on these interactions related to the UAV a command is determined for the UAV and transmitted to the UAV which is configured to respond to the command.

The features and advantages described in the specification and in this summary are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

The messaging platform allows account holders to create publish and view messages in a message stream visible to themselves and other subscribing accounts of the messaging platform . Account holders compose messages using a client software application running on a client computing device also referred to as a client or a client device such as a mobile phone a tablet a personal computer laptop desktop or server or a specialized appliance having communication capability. The client software application may include a web based client a Short Messaging Service SMS interface an instant messaging interface an email based interface or an API application programming interface function based interface. The client computing devices communicate with the messaging platform via a network. The network may communicate information through wired or wireless communication channels over a local area network a wide area network such as the internet or a combination thereof. The network may include multiple networks or sub networks.

Messages are containers for a variety of types of computer data representing content provided by the composer of the message. Types of data that may be stored in a message include text e.g. a 140 character Tweet graphics video computer code e.g. uniform resource locators URLs or other content. Messages can also include key phrases e.g. symbols such as hashtag that can aid in categorizing or contextualizing messages. Messages may also include additional metadata that may or may not be editable by the composing account holder depending upon the implementation. Examples of message metadata include the time and date of authorship as well as the geographical location where the message was composed e.g. the current physical location of the client .

The messages composed by one account holder may also reference other accounts. For example a message may be composed in reply to another message composed by another account holder. Messages may also be repeats or reposts of a message composed by another account holder. Reposts may also be referred to as retweets. Generally an account referenced in a message may both appear as visible content in the message e.g. the name of the account and may also appear as metadata in the message. As a result the messaging platform allows interaction with a referenced account in a message. For example clients may interact with account names that appear in their message stream to navigate to the message streams of those accounts. The messaging platform allows messages to be private such that a composed message will only appear in the message streams of the composing account and designated recipients accounts.

The frontend module receives composed messages from the clients interfaces with other internal components of the messaging platform and distributes message streams to account holders. The frontend module may provide a variety of interfaces for interacting with a number of different types of clients . For example when an account holder uses a web based client to access the messaging platform e.g. through an Internet browser a web interface module in the front end module can be used to provide the client access. Similarly when an account holder uses an API type client to access the messaging platform e.g. through an application native to an operating system of the client an API interface module can be used to provide the client access.

The routing module stores newly composed messages received through the frontend module in a message repository . In addition to storing the content of a message the routing module also stores an identifier for each message. This way the message can be included in a variety of different message streams without needing to store more than one copy of the message.

The graph module manages connections between account holders thus determining which accounts receive which messages when transmitting message streams to clients . Generally the messaging platform uses unidirectional connections between accounts to allow account holders to subscribe to the message streams of other account holders. By using unidirectional connections the messaging platform allows an account holder to receive the message stream of another account without necessarily implying any sort of reciprocal relationship the other way. For example the messaging platform allows account holder A to subscribe to the message stream of account holder B and consequently account holder A is provided and can view the messages authored by account holder B. However this unidirectional connection of A subscribing to B does not imply that account holder B can view the messages authored by account holder A. This could be the case if account holder B subscribed to the message stream of account holder A however this would require the establishment of another unidirectional connection. In one embodiment an account holder who establishes a unidirectional connection to receive another account holder s message stream is referred to as a follower and the act of creating the unidirectional connection is referred to as following another account holder. The graph module receives requests to create and delete unidirectional connections between account holders through the frontend module . These connections are stored for later use in the connection graph repository as part of a unidirectional connection graph. Each connection in the connection graph repository references an account in the account repository .

In the same or a different embodiment the graph module manages connections between account holders using bidirectional connections between account holders. Upon establishing a bidirectional connection both accounts are considered subscribed to each other s account message stream. The graph module stores bidirectional connections in the connection graph repository as part of a social graph. In one embodiment the messaging platform and connection graph repository include both unidirectional and bidirectional connections.

The delivery module constructs message streams and provides them to requesting clients through the frontend module . Responsive to a request for a message stream of a requested account holder the delivery module constructs a message stream in real time. This may include providing messages from subscribed account holders who are mutually connected to the messaging platform during concurrent sessions e.g. simultaneously . However it may also include messages authored not in real time and or via account holders that are not simultaneously connected to the messaging platform with the requesting account holder also referred to as the contextual account holder . The contents of a message stream for a requested account holder may include messages composed by the requested account holder messages composed by the other account holders that the requested account holder follows messages authored by other account holders that reference the requested account holder and in some cases advertisement messages selected by the messaging platform . The messages of the message stream may be ordered chronologically by time and date of authorship or reverse chronologically. Other orderings may also be used.

There may be a large number of possible messages that might be included in the message stream. The delivery module identifies a subset of the possible messages for inclusion in the message stream. For example the delivery module orders the subset of messages by time of composition or any other item of information available regarding the messages. The delivery module stores the message stream in a stream repository . The stored message stream may include the entire contents of each of the messages in the stream or it may include pointers that point to the location of the message in the message repository . The delivery module provides the message stream to the requesting client through the frontend module .

Clients of the messaging platform allow account holders to engage e.g. interact with the messages in message streams. There are a number of different types and categories of engagements e.g. interactions . Types of engagement include clicking selecting a message for more information regarding the message clicking selecting a URL universal resource locator or hashtag in a message reposting the message or favorite ing heart ing liking up voting or down voting a message. Other example engagement types include expanding a card message which presents additional content when an account holder engages with the card message. Account holders may engage further with content contained in the expanded card message e.g. playing a video or audio file streaming a concurrently broadcast time based media TBM event voting in a poll .

The frontend module allows account holders to manage their account with the messaging platform . The account holder can manage privacy security and advertising settings as well as directly manage their connections to other accounts. Generally the messaging platform does not require the account to contribute a large amount of personal information. The frontend module allows the account holder to identify an account name not necessarily a real name to provide pictures of media or to provide a brief description of themselves their entity and to provide an affiliated website. However the messaging platform does not necessarily request or store traditional real world identifying information such as age gender interests history occupation etc. Instead the messaging platform is configured to infer information about the account holder based on the accounts they follow the accounts that follow them the messages they compose and the messages they engage with. Any information explicitly provided or inferred about the account is stored in the account repository .

The real time messaging platform is communicatively coupled to a UAV which is a flying vehicle that is remotely piloted e.g. by a human pilot or autopilot or that is substantially autonomous. One example UAV is a rotor based craft e.g. a helicopter a multi rotor helicopter such as a quadcopter that generates lift by using one or more rotors to accelerate air downwards. Alternatively or additionally the UAV is an aircraft that uses wings to generate lift. The UAV is capable of communication with the messaging platform . For example the UAV captures photographs or videos and transmits them to the messaging platform .

In one embodiment the UAV is controlled at least in part by a pilot using a pilot client to input commands to the UAV . The pilot client is generally a computing device similar to that used to implement the client but the pilot client includes software and or hardware for controlling the movement of the UAV as well as the function of additional devices mounted on the UAV. For example the pilot client controls the height and geographic position of the UAV as well as lights a camera and speakers mounted thereon. In one embodiment the pilot client displays an UAV control interface generated by the pilot frontend module . The pilot inputs commands for the UAV through the pilot frontend module which transmits or relays these commands to the UAV . Alternatively or additionally the pilot client bypasses the pilot frontend module when relaying commands to the UAV e.g. through a radio transmitter or other antenna . The pilot client need not be a computing device. For example the pilot client may be a remote control having physical dials buttons switches or levers that the pilot uses to input commands transmitted to the UAV by an antenna. The UAV is further described with respect to .

The UAV interaction engine provides for interaction between the UAV and the messaging platform . In one embodiment the UAV interaction engine receives media captured by the UAV and embeds the media in messages for delivery to accounts of the messaging platform . Media is a means for conveying information or meaning and includes images videos audio animations and text. For example the UAV interaction engine embeds a video stream from a camera on the UAV in a card message authored by a UAV account an account associated with the UAV . As another example the pilot or messaging platform administrator creates messages containing images captured by the UAV and authored by the UAV account.

The UAV interaction engine may control the UAV through one or more commands. A command is an instruction order or directive to the UAV and may include a high level goal e.g. flying to a particular location capturing video of a particular subject or one or more low level instructions e.g. increasing a speed of a UAV rotor rotating a UAV rotor initiating capture with a camera on the UAV . The commands may be encoded in analog signals or digital signals transmitted to the UAV . As used herein controlling the UAV includes commands to the UAV through the pilot or commands that the UAV responds to without human intervention. For example the UAV interaction engine issues a command to the pilot through the pilot frontend module in response to the command the pilot controls the UAV to accomplish a task. Such an arrangement avoids the UAV executing objectionable commands e.g. activating UAV mounted loudspeakers during a speech at an event and improves safety by providing a safeguard against commands that could crash the UAV . Example commands control UAV movement control capture of media from a UAV mounted camera or control UAV mounted speakers or lights. As another example the UAV interaction engine issues commands to the UAV and a pilot supervises the UAV using the pilot frontend module to prevent unsafe or otherwise objectionable actions by the UAV .

The UAV interaction engine may provide for interaction between accounts of the messaging platform and the UAV . In one embodiment interactions or engagements by accounts with messages associated with the UAV result in the UAV interaction engine commanding the UAV based on the interactions. For example an account associated with the UAV generates a message that includes selectable commands corresponding to different geographic locations. Based on interactions with these selectable commands the UAV interaction engine selects one of these geographic locations and commands the UAV to fly to the selected geographic location. As another example the UAV interaction engine designates a promotional message as associated with the UAV. In this example if enough accounts engage with the designated promotional message e.g. by reposting it then the UAV interaction engine commands the UAV to release a benign payload e.g. confetti flower petals bubbles . The UAV interaction engine is further described in conjunction with .

The receiver is an optional component for receiving communication from the pilot client or the messaging platform and generally receives commands to the UAV as well as other data such as media or messages for presentation by the payload . The receiver may be an antenna and accompanying electronic circuitry e.g. an analog to digital converter an amplifier a noise attenuating filter to detect signals transmitted through electromagnetic signals e.g. radio WiFi LTE .

The UAV controller is an optional component to provide for digital or analog control of the UAV . The UAV controller receives commands through the receiver and directs the UAV to adjust its position or orientation subject to the commands. The UAV controller may also interface with a payload to control the payload . In one embodiment the UAV controller is a computing device and may optionally include a memory for storing media captured by the camera or received through the receiver . The UAV controller may monitor the status of the UAV the camera the payload or itself and transmit status reports through the transmitter . The UAV controller may include one or more sensors to measure the UAV s position speed and or orientation such as one or more global positioning system receivers inertial measurement units gyroscopes magnetometers pitot probes or accelerometers.

In some embodiments the UAV controller may be a computing system that executes applications e.g. mobile applications . The UAV controller may download or otherwise obtain install and execute applications. For example the UAV controller installs an application to broadcast a video stream from the camera to other computing devices executing the application substantially in real time as described further below with respect to the application manager of . The video stream may also be broadcast through interactive messages. The UAV controller may execute multiple applications to interface with multiple types of applications on other computing devices. Applications on the UAV controller may be downloaded installed removed or updated in response to remote commands e.g. from the pilot client or other computing device associated with the messaging platform .

The camera is an optional component to capture media from the environment around the UAV . In one embodiment the camera is a still and or video capable digital camera that includes an optical lens assembly to focus light an image sensor e.g. a charge coupled device an active pixel sensor that produces an electronic signal in response to light incident on the light sensor and an aperture to limit light reaching the image sensor. The camera may optionally include a microphone to capture audio or a memory to store captured media. The camera may operate in response to commands from the pilot client or the messaging platform which may initiate or stop capture of media or may control focusing of an optical lens assembly. The camera may include one or more mechanical actuators that modify the orientation or position of the camera relative to the rest of the UAV .

The transmitter is an optional component for sending communications from the UAV to the pilot client or the messaging platform . In one embodiment the transmitter sends media captured by the camera to the pilot client e.g. to facilitate control or the messaging platform e.g. for inclusion in messages . The transmitter may be an antenna and accompanying electronic circuitry e.g. a digital to analog converter an amplifier a noise attenuating filter a power supply to transmit data using electromagnetic signals. The transmitter and receiver may optionally be combined as a single component.

The payload is an optional component to provide the UAV with additional non standard functionality. The payload may be a droppable object that accelerates more slowly than gravity due to a low ratio of weight to cross sectional surface area or that disperses over a wide area e.g. snowflakes sprinkles flower petals bubbles candy water leaves bacon bits paper currency raffle tickets . The payload may also include a repository for droppable objects. The payload may be a display device to display media received through the receiver or stored in the UAV . For example the payload is a touchscreen to display a video feed e.g. for a telepresence interview or the payload is a projector to display media e.g. an advertisement on proximate objects e.g. a wall of a building the ground the side of a canyon . The payload may be speakers or another electroacoustic transducer to play audio received from the receiver or stored in the UAV e.g. music an announcement an advertisement an audio file in a received message a text to speech reading of a message . The payload may be a lighting instrument e.g. a spotlight a laser a beam projector a gobo a cucoloris for creating a visual show. The payload may be a sensor to gather data points. The sensor may be a temperature pressure or light sensor to gather meteorological data or a radar or proximity sensor to avoid collisions with objects for example.

The message authoring engine creates messages using content captured by the UAV . In one embodiment the message authoring engine generates messages authored by one or more accounts associated with the UAV . The account may author messages containing pointers to a media item updated substantially in real time as the UAV interaction engine receives media captured by the UAV . For example the authored message is a card message that expands to play a stream of an event captured by the UAV. The messaging platform may provide the captured media from the UAV to an event organizer to place in messages authored by an account associated with the event. The pilot may view the captured media through the pilot frontend module and maintain a UAV account associated with the UAV . The messages are broadcast to accounts of the messaging platform . In one embodiment broadcasting a message includes releasing a message for placement in a message stream by the delivery module . Broadcasting a message may also include publishing the message to any account holder or multicasting the message to a subset of account holders e.g. consistent with privacy settings of the message s authoring account or to a single account holder. The message authoring engine may even transmit media captured by the UAV for presentation through traditional media e.g. television radio .

The message authoring engine may automatically select media captured by the UAV for incorporation in messages. For example the message authoring engine identifies messages that include media and that are authored by users attending an event at which the UAV is present determined based on a location associated with the message . The message authoring engine ranks the identified messages based on engagements e.g. re transmissions selections as favorites to determine popular media. The message authoring engine then selects media captured by the UAV that is similar to the images in the highest ranked messages e.g. using image or audio processing to identify similar audio or images and incorporates the selected images into messages. Thus the message authoring engine incorporates media captured by the UAV into messages broadcast by the messaging platform .

The interactive message interface presents an interactive message that includes content that updates with the progression of the event that the UAV is covering. For example the interactive message interface includes a real time video or audio stream captured by the UAV or a live blog stream or slideshow including images captured by the UAV . The interactive message interface may also include selectable options for an account to interact with the UAV . The selectable options may be commands corresponding to movement instructions for the UAV to change its physical position orientation velocity or rate of rotation about an axis of the UAV. For example the selectable options of the interactive message interface correspond to different locations at an event e.g. different stages at a music festival at which the UAV may capture media.

As another example an account holder may instruct the UAV to do a barrel roll maneuver using a selectable option of the interactive message interface . The selectable options may be commands corresponding to instructions for the camera to modify at least one of its orientation position relative to the other components of the UAV or its subject. For example some of the selectable options correspond to pointing the camera at the ground and pointing the camera at the sky. The subject of the camera is a person or object that the camera captures. For example different selectable options correspond to different celebrities at an awards show. If the goal for the UAV is a camera subject rather than a UAV position then the pilot directs the UAV to capture the subject from multiple perspectives and to track the subject if the subject moves. Hence the interactive message interface provides for interaction between the UAV and accounts of the messaging platform .

The application manager provides data e.g. captured media location speed from the UAV to one or more mobile applications native to an operating system of a mobile device or other computing system . The application interface also receives interactions engagements and other feedback from the mobile applications. For example the application includes a video stream that presents video substantially in real time as the camera captures the video. The application may provide one or more interactions options for the UAV . For example the application detects an approval signal regarding the UAV s current location and or camera subject when the application detects a tap or other pressure on a touchscreen of the computing device. The tap may be in a particular region of the touchscreen e.g. an interface object the video stream or any region of the touchscreen e.g. in full screen video mode . As another example the application may include interface objects e.g. buttons images words selectable to vote for a particular location or subject or to provide low level commands to the UAV such as ascend descend or move forward . The application may present interface messages or any of the elements of interactive messages.

The application manager may support multiple data streams from multiple cameras on one or more UAVs . For example different cameras correspond to different streams within the mobile application. The application manager receives interactions from the multiple streams associates the interaction with the relevant UAV and camera and provides the interaction to the UAV controller to control the relevant UAV and or camera . Furthermore the application manager may provide the UAV data to multiple types of applications which may present media captured by the UAV in different interfaces and collect different types of interactions with the media captured by the UAV . Besides supporting applications for mobile devices the application manager may also support web applications for browsers where the web applications provide similar functionality to mobile applications and or interactive messages.

The UAV controller determines commands for transmission to the UAV based on interactions related to the UAV . The UAV controller includes a command identifier a command repository a command selector a policy engine a UAV flight controller and a UAV payload controller . The UAV controller identifies commands using the command identifier determines which commands to execute using the command selector determines whether selected commands are permissible using the policy engine and implements the commands using the UAV flight controller or the UAV payload controller . In other embodiments the functionality of the UAV controller may partition functionality between a different set of modules omit some functionality or include additional functionalities from those described herein.

The command identifier identifies from commands received through the messaging platform . In one embodiment the command identifier identifies explicit commands received through the interactive message interface . For example the interface includes selectable commands for the UAV such as flying to a location capturing media portraying a particular subject or triggering a UAV payload . Alternatively or additionally the interactive message interface includes a video feed embedded in a message that a user may interact with to command the UAV or to command the camera thereon. For example the account holder swipes across a touchscreen in a region displaying the video feed to pan the camera or the account holder taps the touchscreen in the region displaying the video feed to instruct the camera to zoom towards the tapped location of the video feed. As another example a user may instruct the UAV to fly to a location depicted in media or to track a subject depicted in media by selecting the location or the subject in media displayed in the interactive message interface . Besides using a touchscreen the user may use other input devices e.g. a mouse a keyboard a joystick a gesture sensing camera to select the subject displayed in the interactive message interface . Alternatively or additionally the interactive message interface includes voice commands. For example the interface message interface includes a selectable option to input a voice command. Upon selection of the voice command option the interactive message interface records audio including the voice command which may then by analyzed by a speech to text algorithm to identify a command.

Besides receiving inputs from the interactive message interface the command identifier may determine commands from messages authored by accounts. In one embodiment the command identifier consults a command repository to determine whether a message contains a valid command to the UAV . For example the command identifier recognizes commands embedded in text of the message e.g. lower higher loop de loop go to the red carpet . The command repository includes entries for valid commands as well as different text or other message media corresponding to a given commands in a lookup table or other suitable data structure. For example an entry in the command repository for a command to increase the speed of the UAV may recognize quicker speedy faster or rapidly as valid text to call a command. The command identifier may include optical character recognition to recognize commands in images or videos of message content and the command identifier may also include speech to text processing to recognize commands embedded in audio in messages. In one embodiment the command identifier identifies commands from special characters preceding succeeding or bracketing text in a message e.g. up fast . The command repository may include the special characters as well as rules for recognizing commands associated with the special characters.

The command identifier may ascertain whether messages from the message platform pertain to the UAV prior to identifying commands. In one embodiment the command identifier analyzes messages directed towards a UAV account associated with the UAV for the possibility of including commands. For example authors of accounts may control the UAV using the content of messages directed towards the UAV account. Alternatively or additionally the command identifier identifies messages containing identifiers associated with a UAV prior to identifying commands in a message. The command identifier may consult the command repository to determine whether a message contains a command and which UAV the command refers to. For example the identifier is preceded succeeded or bracketed by special characters. In an example message containing the text let s see some Future Islands CoachellaUAV FlyGobiStage the text CoachellaUAV is an identifier indicating the message is intended as a command for a UAV at Coachella and the text FlyGobiStage indicates that the message is a command for the UAV at Coachella to fly to the Gobi stage where Future Islands is presumably playing . In one embodiment the command identifier identifies commands that appear to be directed towards the UAV but are not valid commands in the command repository . In response the command identifier may communicate e.g. through a message through the interactive message interface that a command is not valid provide information about valid commands and or suggest a valid command similar to an invalid command submitted from an account.

Using identified commands the command selector selects a command for the UAV to execute. This command selector is an optional component for example the UAV controller transmits identified commands in real time as they are received provided they are valid and or permissible. In one embodiment the command selector determines a command for the UAV from a most numerous or popular identified command. For example the command selector counts the number of interactions corresponding to different commands received during a time period. At the end of the time period the command selector determines the command for the UAV from the command having the highest number of interactions corresponding to the chosen command. Such a control mode provides for a democratic method of determining a command for the UAV . For example the commands correspond to locations and the command selector selects the location receiving the most interactions and commands the UAV to fly to that selected location.

As another example the interactions are approval signals e.g. hearts favorites up votes likes and the command selector uses the approval signals to determine a location for the UAV or a subject for the camera . For example the command selector initially selects locations to move the UAV along a predetermined path e.g. a series of locations . The command identifier receives approval signals and associates each signal of approval with the location of the UAV or the subject of the camera according to timestamps of the approval signals. In response to one of the locations receiving more than a threshold number of approval signals within a predetermined time period the command selector instructs the UAV to fly to the location and maintain position at the location. If the number of approval signals within a recent time period no longer exceeds a threshold amount the UAV may resume flying to other locations.

As another example the command selector initially cycles through a number of subjects being captured by the camera in real time and optionally that have been programmatically identified and selected through image recognition resources either on the UAV or network accessible to the UAV . Once a number of approval signals within a time period exceeds a threshold when the camera is oriented towards a particular subject then the command identifier instructs the camera to maintain focus on the subject and keep the subject within view of the camera for example in the center of the camera s line of sight until the number of approval signals within a recent time period no longer exceeds the threshold. The threshold number of approval signals for selecting a location or subject may be different e.g. higher than the threshold number of approval signals for resuming a rotation of locations or subjects or otherwise selecting a different subject or location.

In one embodiment the command selector selects a command in response to a command receiving an aggregate number of interactions through the messaging platform equaling or exceeding a threshold number of interactions. The interactions qualifying for purposes of meeting the threshold may have to meet certain criteria. The criteria for the interaction specify one or more types of interactions that qualify to meet the threshold and any characteristics of the interactions to meet the threshold. For example the criteria indicate that qualifying interactions are reposts of a message associated with an account of the event organizer In this example reposting is the type of interaction and the characteristics of the interaction are the message from the account of the event organizer Other characteristics of a message besides the authoring account may include an attribute of the account holder engaging in the interaction e.g. location demographics language spoken secondary responses to the interaction e.g. a minimum number of further reposts of a repost interaction or a time interval for the interaction. As another example an account associated with the UAV issues a challenge to repost an advertisement message of a charity. In this example if more than a predetermined number of accounts repost the advertisement message then the command selector selects commands through the UAV payload controller for the UAV to drop t shirts and to activate onboard disco lights. Thus a collective number of interactions by accounts of the messaging platform may trigger the command selector to determine a command.

In some embodiments the UAV may be one of multiple UAVs flying in close physical proximity to one another e.g. at the same outdoor festival or event . In such an embodiment the command selector may determine commands for a UAV based on the location camera subject or other attributes of the other UAVs in proximity. For example the command selector deploys the UAVs to different locations at least a threshold distance away from each other. As another example the command selector instructs the cameras to focus on different subjects.

To determine the location and or subjects for the respective UAVs the command selector may rank locations and or subjects according to scores corresponding to a number of approval signals or other positive interactions directed at the respective locations and or subjects. The scores may be determined based on a time decay factor for the different interactions or some other weighting. For example interactions from users within a threshold distance of one or more of the UAVs receive higher weighting than interactions from users not within the threshold distance. The command selector selects a number of locations and or subjects according to the ranking and the number of UAVs for locations and cameras for subjects . The command selector then assigns each of the selected locations and or subjects to a UAV to reduce or substantially minimize differences in position between each UAV and its assigned location and or subject.

Before transmitting an identified or selected command to the UAV the policy engine may determine whether a command is advisable appropriate legal safe and otherwise unobjectionable. In one embodiment the policy engine enforces physical location boundaries on the UAV . For example the policy engine obtains a location boundary restricting movement of the UAV to a given physical space or excluding the UAV from a physical space e.g. defined by one or more heights above ground altitudes or geographic locations or boundaries . These location boundaries may be based on government aviation rules for UAVs areas with public events or some other legal framework for example. The location boundaries may be received from the event organizer. The policy engine determines whether the command would result in the UAV traversing or violating the location boundary. If so then the policy engine may prevent the UAV controller from transmitting the command or modify the command to prevent the UAV from traversing the boundary. For example if a command directs a UAV to fly below a minimum permissible height then the UAV flight controller commands the UAV to fly at the minimum permissible height. The policy engine may also include additional policies to ensure safety or etiquette such as policies to ensure that the UAV maintains a minimum distance away from persons or objects. The UAV may determine the minimum distance through a proximity sensor and or the policy engine includes image processing capabilities to estimate distance to a subject of a captured image animation or video.

The policy engine may enforce various policies determined by administrators of the messaging platform or accounts thereof associated with organizers of an event at which the UAV is flying. In addition to location boundaries example policies might dictate how long the UAV may linger at a particular location may capture media about a given subject or when the UAV may execute commands controlling a payload . For example the policy engine may prevent execution of commands to release a payload before a threshold time and or may restrict dropping the payload only in a particular geographic location or only outside of a graphic area. As another example the policy engine may prevent capture of media from certain locations at an event to ensure privacy. Thus the policy engine enforces deterministic rules to ensure appropriate behavior of the UAV . The policy engine may enforce policies on the orientation of the camera to restrict capture of media only to public events e.g. festivals concerts and prevent capture of media pertaining to private areas.

From commands selected by the command selector and or determined to be permissible by the policy engine the UAV flight controller handles commands regarding movement of the UAV or control of the camera . For example commands to the UAV from the flight controller control movements by specifying a physical position geographic location an orientation a velocity a height a rate of rotation about an axis through the UAV or acceleration of the UAV . As another example the commands to the UAV modify an orientation position or subject of the camera . The commands from the UAV flight controller may additionally instruct the camera to capture an image begin recording media or stop recording media. The UAV flight controller may communicate with an autopilot operating on the UAV e.g. the UAV controller to execute a command and or may instruct the pilot to execute a command via the pilot client .

When the command specifies e.g. based on real time or near time indications of interactions a target subject for the camera the UAV flight controller may use suitable image processing techniques e.g. edge matching color matching gradient matching to detect the target subject in UAV captured media. The UAV flight controller may modify the camera to keep the subject in view e.g. in the center of captured video and in focus . For example if the UAV flight controller determines non zero motion of a detected subject by comparing the position of the detected subject in successively captured video frames or images then the UAV controller adjusts the motion of the camera to cancel the detected motion of the subject. Similarly if the command specifies a location the UAV flight controller determines commands for the UAV to fly to the location or maintain a position at the location. The UAV flight controller may use feedback from onboard sensors to counter the effect of destabilizing forces e.g. wind on the UAV s position or the camera s orientation. The command selector may output a command specifying a location and a subject. Accordingly the UAV flight controller commands the UAV to fly to the specified location or hover at the specified location while maintaining the camera s focus on the specified subject.

The UAV payload controller handles commands regarding operation of the payload . As described previously the payload may be droppable may present media received from the messaging platform e.g. through a display device a loudspeaker may provide entertainment e.g. lighting instruments or may collect data e.g. a temperature sensor . The UAV payload controller may command the UAV to release the payload to play media to cease playing media to begin a light show or to end a lightshow in response to interactions described previously. For example the payload controller releases a payload or begins playing a video on a UAV mounted screen in response to a command from the command selector . As another example the command identifier identifies commands corresponding to different songs the command selector determines a song having the most number of accounts requesting the song and the UAV payload controller instructs the UAV to play the selected song through UAV mounted loudspeakers. The UAV payload controller may communicate with an autopilot operating on the UAV e.g. the UAV controller to operate a payload and or may instruct the pilot to operate the payload via the pilot client . Hence the UAV payload controller provides attendees of an event an incentive to engage with the messaging platform .

The UAV interaction module receives interactions related to the UAV . The interactions may include interactions with the broadcast message incorporating the captured media or incorporating selectable commands for the UAV . The interactions may include messages directed towards an account associated with the UAV or the interactions may include interactions with an account or message not explicitly associated with the UAV but nonetheless related as part of a promotion or an event. The UAV controller determines a command for the UAV based on the received interactions related to the UAV . To determine the command the message identifier may identify commands embedded in messages or corresponding to other interactions related to the UAV . To determine the command the message selector may select a command from identified commands and optionally the policy engine determines whether the identified commands or selected command is permissible. The command may control movement of the UAV or may control a camera or payload on the UAV . The message selector may determine the command based on numbers of interactions corresponding to different types of commands or may include selecting the command based on an aggregate number of interactions equaling or exceeding a threshold where the interactions meet a given criteria e.g. an interaction type with a particular message with a particular account . The UAV flight controller or the UAV payload controller as appropriate transmits the command to the UAV which is configured to respond to the command by modifying flight of the UAV or operating the camera or the payload . Transmitting the command may include transmitting the command to a pilot to execute the command using a pilot client . Hence accounts of a messaging platform may receive media captured by a UAV and influence the UAV .

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet a set top box STB a smart phone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. For example the client is implemented as a smart phone the messaging platform is implemented as a server and the pilot client is implemented as a laptop but these may be implemented by other computer systems . Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly executes instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs or any combination of these a main memory and a static memory or storage which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include graphics display unit or monitor e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument and a network interface device e.g. a network adapter which also are configured to communicate via the bus .

The computer system may include input devices such as a microphone or other audio input device for recording audio snippets or otherwise converting sound waves to electrical signals. The computer system may also include a touch sensitive input device e.g. a touchscreen a projected keyboard an interactive surface which may be integrated with the display unit . Various implementations may omit components of the example computer system for example the messaging platform omits the microphone and the touch sensitive input device .

The storage includes a machine readable medium on which are stored instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions e.g. software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor e.g. within a processor s cache memory during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies disclosed herein. The term machine readable medium includes but not be limited to data repositories in the form of solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The disclosed embodiments beneficially allow for improved coverage of an event through the messaging platform and the UAV . The UAV beneficially provides a dedicated feed of an event that records a larger quantity of media than that recorded by individual account holders. The UAV can fly so the recorded coverage of the event may have more diverse geographic coverage and may include aerial coverage to provide a bigger picture view of an event. By allowing accounts to interact with the UAV through commands the messaging platform promotes increased engagement with the messaging platform and improves relevance of event coverage to account holders of the messaging platform . Through prominence of on UAV payloads e.g. light shows displays speakers attendees of the event become more aware of the messaging platform and are more likely to engage with the messaging platform to provide their unique perspective on the event.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein. One or more steps of the processes or methods described herein e.g. that illustrated in are repeated concurrently by multiple threads. Thus one or more of the steps can be performed serially in parallel and or by a distributed system in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors e.g. processor that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations. For example the functionality of the data repositories or modules e.g. the TBM engine may be performed partially or entirely by the social media platform the client or another hardware device e.g. a server .

The data repositories e.g. may be implemented as a database and or storage service residing on one or more servers. For example one or more of the data repositories may be implemented as a storage service using service oriented architecture SOA a distributed database management system DBMS a clustered database a standalone flat file and or any storage software residing on one or more physical storage devices. Examples of a storage device may include but are not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive and or other memory device.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a messaging enabled UAV through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

