---

title: Avatar integrated shared media experience
abstract: A method and system are disclosed in which a group of people are able to replicate the physical world experience of going with a group of friends to pick a movie, watch the movie together, and provide commentary on the movie itself in the virtual world on a virtual couch while each user is sitting in different physical locations. Additionally, the virtual representation of the destination that the group of people are watching the movie together in can be themed to allow users to watch movies in different locations pivoting on special events or by the users choice.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09423945&OS=09423945&RS=09423945
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09423945
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150824
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 188 334 filed Feb. 24 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 118 737 granted Aug. 25 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 551 339 filed Aug. 31 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 661 353 granted Feb. 25 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 217 268 filed May 29 2009 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This application is also subject matter related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 551 403 filed on Aug. 31 2009 entitled Avatar Integrated Shared Media Selection now abandoned which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The wide availability of data networks has enabled computing device users to remain connected to their provider networks and thus all of the data and services available via the Internet and other networks. The growth of such networks have also fueled the growth of community and social applications using computing devices such as mobile phones and personal computers. For example networked multiplayer gaming is generally available on both personal computers and game consoles. Such networked applications allow users to remain connected and to share online experiences without the need to be physically present in the same location.

However may social activities remain out of reach of online networks. For example networked social multimedia experiences such as streaming video for example are not generally available or convenient to use.

In some cases avatars may be used to enhance a group or online experience. An avatar can represent a user in a variety of contexts including computer or video games applications chats forums communities and instant messaging services. An avatar may be an object representing the embodiment of a user and may represent various actions and aspects of the user s personal beliefs interests or social status. However the use of avatars has not overcome the deficiencies of existing group and online systems and applications.

One popular social activity is the viewing of movies and television shows. However it is difficult for users who live in separate physical locations to conveniently decide on a movie or television show to watch together. For example it may be difficult and cumbersome for a participant in an online group to suggest a movie and listen to suggestions from other members of the group. Furthermore it may be difficult to communicate thoughts and feelings about the various suggested movie or television titles to the members of the group while at the same time maintaining a sense of fun and interaction that is typical of an in person movie television show selection experience. Even when the group has decided on what movie or television show to watch it would be advantageous if the participants can continue to interact and communicate while the movie or show is being watched.

A method and system are disclosed herein in which a group of people may replicate the physical world experience of going with a group of friends to select a movie or show to watch together in a virtual world while the users are in different physical locations. Users of a group may nominate movie or television selections for group viewing. In one embodiment a display at a user s location may render avatars representing the users of the group. Users may also select an emotion that the member wishes to express to the other users of the group.

In further embodiments the users of the group may replicate the physical world experience of watching the movie or television show together and provide commentary on the movie or show in the virtual world on a virtual couch while each user is viewing the movie or show in different physical locations. Additionally the virtual representation of the destination in which the group of people are watching the movie can be themed to allow users to watch movies in different locations pivoting on special events or by the users choice.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the disclosure. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the disclosure without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the disclosure and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this disclosure.

The following example embodiments describe the media nomination and selection process in the context of viewing movies and television shows. The selection of movies and television shows is exemplary and those skilled in the art will recognize that the principles are readily applicable to the nomination and selection of other media types that may be shared among a group of users. Such media types may include any media file or application such as music files and video games. All such media types and applications are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

Many social activities have been replicated or simulated by networked or online activities. For example group discussions have been simulated using on line messaging or chat services. However some social activities have been more difficult to replicate. For example one popular social activity is the group viewing of movies and television shows. However it is difficult for users who are in separate physical locations to conveniently decide on a movie or television show to watch together. For example it may be difficult and cumbersome for a participant in an online group to suggest a movie and listen to suggestions from other members of the group. Furthermore it may be difficult to communicate thoughts and feelings about the various suggested movie or television titles to the members of the group while at the same time maintaining a sense of fun and interaction that is typical of an in person movie television show selection experience. Even when the group has decided on what movie or television show to watch it would be advantageous if the participants can continue to interact and communicate while the movie or show is being watched.

In various embodiments disclosed herein a group of users may replicate the physical world experience of meeting with a group of friends to select a movie or television show to watch together. The experience may be replicated in a virtual world in which the users are in different physical locations and in communication via a network. Users of the group may nominate movie or television selections for group viewing. In one embodiment a display at a user s location may render avatars representing the users of the group. Users may also select an emotion that the user wishes to express to the other users of the group.

According to the methods and systems described herein a user in a group of users may be provided an opportunity to browse content made available by a system and or service such as for example Microsoft s XBOX 360 console and XBOX LIVE service and to nominate specific content such as movies or television shows that they would like to watch. Once the group of users has nominated movies or television shows that they would like to watch the users may discuss with each other via for example their respective headset devices regarding which movie or show they would like to watch together.

Each user may also have an avatar which is a virtual representation of his or herself that may act out different pick my movie animations to attempt to convey the user s excitement with the particular movie or television show he or she has chosen. Many applications such as video games sometimes feature a user created system wide avatar as a user controlled character. Avatars can be graphical images that represent real persons in virtual or game space. Typically a user may be able to customize body shape gender facial features hair style and clothing. This allows the user a more personalized and involved video gaming experience. For instance the Nintendo Corporation has a user created system wide avatar the MII which a user may then use as his or her user controlled character in video games that support this feature such as WIT SPORTS .

Once a leader ultimately picks a particular piece of content such as a particular movie the chosen content may be watched by the group of users and their respective avatars may appear in a virtual destination to watch the movie together. The virtual destination and a representation of the group watching the content may appear on the display of each user s respective console thus simulating a physical gathering of those users. The group of users may talk during the movie on their headsets and have their avatars perform emotions and gestures that the user in the physical world is feeling based on the content being played.

Additionally the system may provide themed destinations that may be chosen by the system or by one or more of the users of the group viewing the content. For example a content service provider such as an online provider of movies that can be rented for view may provide a themed destination that resembles a home theater environment. Another service provider may provide a themed destination that resembles a full theater. Other themed destinations may include ones that resemble a beach aquarium outer space mountains drive in theater or any other destination. The themed destination may be chosen by a leader of the group or by the collective agreement of the users. Hidden unlockable themes may also be provided based on events occurring around a user. For example if one of the users in the group is having a birthday on that day the system may provide a special destination where a birthday cake and balloons may appear as the users are watching a movie together.

The example network may include one or more client computers a server computer data source computers and or databases and . The client computers and the data source computers may be in electronic communication with the server computer by way of the communications network e.g. an intranet the Internet or the like . The client computers and data source computers may be connected to the communications network by way of communications interfaces . The communications interfaces can be any type of communications interfaces such as Ethernet connections modem connections wireless connections and so on.

The server computer may provide management of the database by way of database server system software such as MICROSOFT s SQL SERVER or the like. As such server may act as a storehouse of data from a variety of data sources and provides that data to a variety of data consumers.

In the example network environment of a data source may be provided by data source computer . Data source computer may communicate data to server computer via communications network which may be a LAN WAN Intranet Internet or the like. Data source computer may store data locally in database which may be database server or the like. The data provided by data source can be combined and stored in a large database such as a data warehouse maintained by server

Client computers that desire to use the data stored by server computer can access the database via communications network . Client computers access the data by way of for example a query a form etc. It will be appreciated that any configuration of computers may be employed.

The client computers depicted in may be PCs or game consoles for example. Two or more clients may form a party. A social video application running on the server may designate one of the clients as the remote holder. The remote holder may be the first member of the party to request a network session. Such a request may be for example a request for streaming video. The remote holder may then invite other clients to establish a networked social multimedia experience i.e. to join the party.

The remote holder may have control over a shared remote control that controls content playback. When the remote holder presses play pause reverse or fast forward for example the remote holder s state may be sent to all connected users in a group who see it and synchronize to it causing the same action to occur on their client. The other users may have the ability to play pause and request remote holder status by sending their own state to the remote holder. Such actions may need approval from the current remote holder to take effect. Users may also have the ability to leave the playback session.

The video may be kept synchronized by keeping all users updated on the remote holder s state. The remote holder s state may be a structure that contains information on playback status e.g. playing paused initializing etc. an identifier associated with the content being viewed and a current time code associated with the content. The remote holder may maintain its state i.e. keep it up to date and send it to all the other users when it changes. The other users may then see the new state compare their own time code and playback state to the remote holder s and then take action accordingly. Each client may have its own respective social video application and may maintain its own respective state structure .

If a user s state is different from that of the remote holder it may be updated playing may become paused for example . If a user s time code is too different from the remote holder s then a seek operation may be performed to the remote holder s reported time code. The user may be responsible for predicting based on pre buffering times how long it will take the seek call to complete and compensate by adjusting the targeted time code.

Users may also be enabled to make requests of the remote holder by sending the remote holder and all other users an updated state that differs from the remote holder s state. When the remote holder sees this state it may be taken as a request. The remote holder may update its state to reflect the requested changes. Only then do the other users including the user that made the request change their state. The same process can be used to request remote holder status.

In an example embodiment any user can be the remote holder but only one user can be the remote holder at any time. Any member may be promoted to remote holder demoting the current remote holder to a normal user. The current remote holder is the only user who can pass the remote to another user. The server may keep track of the identify of the current remote holder.

Multiparty voice chat may be integrated into the experience allowing members to comment on the video. Thus a group of people may be enabled to share the experience of watching a video together as if they were in the same room without being physically present together. All users may have the same access to voice chat. That is any user may speak whenever he chooses.

Multiparty voice chat may require a certain level of synchronization among the clients that form the party. If any client were allowed to be even a few seconds out of synch with the rest of the party comments made over the chat may not make sense. Additionally feedback from the audio of one client sent over voice chat could be very disruptive if it s not closely in sync with what other users are hearing from their own video.

Fast forward and reverse may be treated differently from play pause and seek commands. When the remote holder elects to fast forward or reverse the other clients may simply pause playback. When the remote holder finds the time in the video from which playback should resume the other clients may receive the remote holder s updated state and issue a seek command telling them to resume playback from the time index the remote holder has selected. This may eliminate potential synchronization issues that may be caused by fast forward or reverse speeds being slightly different on different users client computers.

A fully social experience may be created where people are not only watching the same video but also using graphical user avatars to create a virtual viewing environment such as a virtual entertainment room or movie theater. The users may be represented graphically in front of the video and may be enabled to use animations text chat and voice chat to interact with each other.

For example the introduction of graphical avatars into the shared video experience may add another dimension to the experience by giving users a sense of identity within the virtual living room. Each user watching the video may be represented by their own customized avatar. The avatars of every person in the session may be rendered on everyone else s television or monitor resulting in a group of avatars that appear to be watching the video in a virtual environment. Each user may be enabled to trigger animations and text messages in the form of speech balloons for example for their avatar. Such animations and text messages may be rendered on every other users television or monitor.

In general the user interface may depict an area for displaying a movie. The area may be a virtual viewing environment such as a virtual living room or a virtual movie theater. As noted above the scene providing the area for rendering the media may be referred to as the destination or themed destination. Specifically as shown in the user interface may include a video presentation portion via which the video is presented to the users. The user interface may also include a respective avatar A D corresponding to each of the users. The user interface may also include a text chat area. As shown text chat may be presented in the form of speech balloons A D. Alternatively or additionally text chat may be presented as scrolling text in a chat box portion of the user interface . Audio maybe presented via one or more speakers not shown provided at the client locations.

Each client may render its own themed destination. Thus software may be provided on each client to enable the client to render its own themed destination. The themed destinations rendered on the several clients may be identical or not.

When a user causes his or her avatar to gesticulate the gesture may be presented at all the client locations in synchronicity. Similarly when a user speaks or otherwise produces an audio event e.g. through voice chat or textual event e.g. through text chat the audio or text may be presented at all the client locations in synchronicity.

At the remote holder client communicates the remote holder s state structure to the other clients in the party. To maintain the highest level of synchronization among the several clients in the party such updates should be communicated as frequently as possible. At the other clients receive the remote holder s updated state. At each client responds to the state change by updating its own state structure to conform to that of the remote holder.

The state structure from each client may be sent to every other client so that every client always knows the current state of every other client in the party. Because the state structure contains information on playback status an identifier associated with the content being viewed and a current time code associated with the content each client will then be performing the same operation at the same place in the same content at the same time.

At the selecting user s client may send the selecting user s state to the remote holder client as well as to all other members of the party. At the remote holder client may receive the selecting user s state from which it can determine that another member of the party has made a playback state change request. The remote holder client may change its own state to reflect the new state.

At the remote holder client communicates the remote holder s state structure to the other clients in the party. To maintain the highest level of synchronization among the several clients in the party such updates should be communicated as frequently as possible. At the other clients receive the remote holder s updated state.

At the other clients including the user who made the original request receive the remote holder s updated state and respond to the state change by updating their own state structures to conform to that of the remote holder. At the selected action occurs on the requesting user s client.

At in response to the remote holder s selection of the fast forward or reverse operation the remote holder client may update its state to reflect that it is currently fast forwarding or reversing. At the remote holder client communicates the remote holder s state structure to the other clients in the party. At the other users receive the new state and pause until the fast forward reverse state changes again.

At the remote holder video starts to fast forward or reverse. Eventually the remote holder may select a play operation e.g. by pressing the play button on their game controller or remote control. At the remote holder video begins playback at the time code associated with the point in the video at which the remote holder selected the play operation.

At the remote holder may update its state to reflect that it is currently playing and has a new time code and communicate its state structure to the other clients in the party. At the other users receive the new state structure and perform a seek and play operation to get back synchronized with the remote holder.

Thus the remote holder may be allowed full control over the virtual remote control while the other users have only the ability to exit the video experience play pause and make requests of the remote holder. In an example embodiment no playback changes are made until the remote holder has changed its own state.

Synchronization of avatars may be implemented in much the same way as described above in connection with synchronization of play and pause commands. Each user would construct his or her own avatar or retrieve a saved avatar if the user already constructed one. Each client could then communicate information about its respective avatar to the other clients.

As each client renders its respective destination it may retrieve the avatars from a common server e.g. based on gamer tags associated with the avatars . For example avatars may be retrieved via the internet. Avatar placement and emotion information may be contained in the state structure that is passed around the several users. Placement information may indicate where each avatar is to be presented in the user interface either in absolute or relative terms. Emotion information may convey an emotional state. Each client may animate a certain avatar based on emotion information received for that avatar. Thus when rendering its virtual destination each client can determine from the state structure what the virtual destination is supposed to look like avatar placement therein which avatar is speaking gesturing leaving etc.

Synchronized text chat may also be implemented in much the same way as described above in connection with synchronization of play and pause commands. Text provided by one user may be included in the state structure that is passed around the several users.

Voice chat can be implemented via the so called party system which connects up to eight or more users together. In essence the party system employs a respective gamer tag associated with each of the several users. Thus synchronized voice chat may be built into the system eliminating any need to convey voice information in the state structure.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit may represent multiple logical processing units such as those supported on a multi threaded processor. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus . The system bus may also be implemented as a point to point connection switching fabric or the like among the communicating devices.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Described now is an exemplary embodiment illustrating some of the methods and systems disclosed herein for establishing and providing a shared media experience in a group comprising two or more users each user operating a respective computing device and communicatively coupled via a network. A user may at the user s location use a multipurpose console that has access to an online network and network services. One service that may be available is an online media service that can provide streaming media services so that the user can experience near instant streaming of content.

In an embodiment the user may desire to utilize a party mode on their console. A party may be a collection of users who may or may not all be interacting within the same experience at a given point in time. A party session may be established when party members interact with one another within the same application or experience.

Any user may host a shared video experience. In one embodiment the user who initiates the party session may be deemed to be the party host. A host may invite other users to become members of a party and share a party experience. A host may create a shared party by either launching an application provided on the console that may provide or access an infrastructure for inviting party members to a shared media experience. Alternatively and optionally the console may provide a wizard or guide for inviting other users to the party. Such applications may provide for example menus to select or enter the identities of other users who the host wishes to invite to the party. The application may transmit identifiers of the requested users to an online service that may in turn forward the requests to the identified users. The identified users may be notified via applications executing on their respective consoles that they have been invited to the party. The applications may then provide an interface for accepting or rejecting the invitation upon which the application may return the acceptance or rejection to the online service. Finally the online service may notify the host of the rejection or acceptance.

Once a party has been formed a movie or television show may be selected by the party for shared viewing. One or more of the users may select one or more movies or shows to be listed in a watch queue. Such a queue may for example include a list of the movies and television shows that a user may want to watch via the online service. Typically users may add titles to the queue using various means such as browsing on the online service website.

In one embodiment the host of the party may be the only member of the party that is provided the capability to share out their watch queue to the other party members. The online service may make the information available so that the other party members may view the host s watch queue on their own consoles.

In another embodiment any party member may be provided the capability to nominate content from within their own watch queues. The content nominations may be included and displayed in a party queue available to each party member. In one embodiment each nominated movie or show may be represented in a two dimensional grid for example a 3 3 tiled wall.

In addition each party member may be provided the option to share their own personal queues with the entire party. Furthermore even if the party member does not share their personal queues they may still nominate content from their queues to the party queue. However no other party members will see that party members queue.

Each party member s individual watch queue may be represented as a different channel or data stream on each user s display. When permitted users may also browse the other users watch queues and nominate the pieces of content that they wish to watch from the party member s queue. Users may also request and view details of each movie or show. For example by selecting a particular movie in a user s queue the details for the movie may be displayed indicating for example the synopsis run time and other details of the movie.

After the users have nominated their choices in a preferred embodiment the host of the session may select a specific movie or show for the entire party to watch. In other embodiments the group or online system may determine the selected movie or show by determining the selection with the highest number of votes or other formulaic means.

In some cases one or more members of the party may not have audio capability and thus a visual confirmation may be provided when the host selects the movie. In an embodiment the avatar of the party member who nominated the selected content may be displayed when the selected content item is highlighted in the party queue. This may provide a visual confirmation of the movie or show that was selected for viewing. Thus the party members may be made aware that the content has been selected and is ready to be viewed without relying on the need for voice communications within the party.

In an embodiment the avatars may be used to convey emotions and feelings during the nomination and selection process. For example a user may react to a movie nomination and desire to express the response to the other users. A user may wish to for example let others know what the user is thinking provoke a response from other users make a statement about the movie or respond to another user s conveyed emotion.

Referring to in one embodiment the input of emotions may be implemented using a fly out wheel displayed on the user s screen and activated using an appropriate control on the user s console console accessory or other input means. For example the wheel can be activated and controlled using a gamepad or a remote controller.

Any number of emotions or responses may be provided on the fly out wheel. By way of example and not limitation eight categories of emotions may be used as shown in .

In an embodiment each category may be represented by one static avatar action or animation or a series of animations selectable by the user. In other embodiments rather than giving the user the ability to choose the details of the animation a random predefined animation may be rendered once the user selects the emotion they want to convey. The categories of emotions may further be based on typical responses that users may have watching major film genres such as action adventure comedy crime gangster drama historical horror musicals science fiction war westerns and the like.

Based on the above listed genres and typical response associated with the genres in one embodiment depicted in the following categories may be used to populate an avatar emotion response function 

These specific emotions may also be referred to as emotes. In an embodiment each category may further provide at least three random animations. Each avatar may also perform idle animations to make the experience more interesting for the users even when an emotion has not been actively selected by the users.

Additionally and optionally audio effects may also be provided. The audio effects may be combined with the on screen animations to further enhance the party experience. For example a clapping audio clip may be rendered along with one of the selected emotions.

In various embodiments additional features may be added to enhance the party experience. For example the consecutive selection of three emotions may perform unlock a special emote. Additionally on certain days such as holidays some emotes may be configured to behave differently than on other days times. Finally avatars may perform different animations depending on the user s profile. For example female avatars may use different animations than male avatars.

In an embodiment users may be given the option to turn off the avatar experience and not use emotes. Users may continue to communicate to other party members using a voice chat mode. In an embodiment the user may still be able to communicate via the user s headset but the user will no longer see the other user s avatars. In one embodiment however pop up notifications e.g. User X is Happy may still be presented during the group watching experience.

Once a movie or show has been selected the users may be provided a display that shows a loading scene while buffering the content in preparation for playback. The display may also provide specific details such as starting party buffering content waiting for party members and the like. By providing such status information each party member may be informed that a selection has been made and that playback will soon take place. Furthermore the virtual experience may be enhanced by having the avatars take their seats in preparation for the movie to start. Animations such as those that depict each party member getting comfortable in front of the loading scene may be used to communicate the current status to the party members and enhance the enjoyment of the group experience.

In one illustrative example of a nomination process depicts a starting screen that may be presented to one user showing a Start Party option that may be selected by the user to start a shared media nomination and watching experience. depicts one exemplary screen in which a user may suggest a movie to watch wait for a suggestion or invite users to join the party.

As discussed above the avatars may be used to convey emotions and feelings during the viewing. For example a user may react to a scene in the movie or show and desire to express the response to the other users. A user may for example let others know what the user is thinking provoke a response from other users make a statement about the movie or respond to another user s conveyed emotion. When the animations are performed an avatar may turn around and perform the animation so that the users can view the animations from a frontal perspective.

For example if a user selects the love emote an avatar may make a sighing gesture and animated hearts may appear above the avatar s head as shown in to indicate to the other users that this user loves the particular content or scene being viewed. Another selection may make the avatar appear to be laughing to indicate that the user finds the content funny Some animations may be used to enhance the playfulness of a group experience. For example an animation may show an avatar throwing popcorn. Such animations may help create an irreverent and playful feel of the experience.

Referring back to an example emote wheel is depicted that illustrates one implementation of an emote wheel using icons instead of text. The emote wheel may be continuously present on the display or may be rendered on the display when requested by the user for example when a control button on the console is pressed.

As mentioned above different themes brands or destinations can be applied to the watching experience. Conceptually the leader can take his or her group of users to watch a movie or show to a variety of destinations around the world. As shown in for example the leader may take the other users to a traditional move theater. In the example shown in previous figures the theme is that of a home theater. In addition to user selectable themes other themes may appear based on events that are occurring for the user. For example when the groups of users are viewing a movie during the winter months a Winter Wonderland theme may be available as shown in . As another example a special theme not shown may be available when it is your birthday.

In various embodiments a button or other selection mechanism may be available on the user interface screen that signifies themes that may be selectable. In one embodiment only the leader may have the selection feature mechanism enabled. In other embodiments other users may also have the mechanism enabled. When the leader cycles through different themes then all members of the party may receive indication of the themes and render the themes unless the user has switched to full screen mode. When a user is in full screen mode and then switches back to avatar rendering mode then the user s interface may render the theme chosen by the leader.

As mentioned above some themes may be made available based on certain conditions such as a time of the year or a date of importance to a user such as a user s birthday. When the parameters of such a condition are satisfied then that theme may be chosen by default until the condition is no longer met and the theme may then no longer be available until the condition occurs again . When a special theme is unhidden the leader may still have the ability to change to a different theme. The unhidden theme may just be a new option in the list. As an example for a Birthday Theme the conditional may be that if any member of a watching party has a birthday of today within three days in the future or within three days in the past the default theme may be the Birthday Theme and the theme may then be unhidden in the list of themes. As another example the condition for a Winter Wonderland Theme may be that during the month of December every year the Winter Wonderland Theme may become the default and be unhidden in the list of themes.

In one embodiment the leader may be provided the ability to chapter skip fast forward rewind and pause. Once the leader chooses such a trick mode the displays for the other users may show the video freezing. Text may be displayed indicating that the leader is finding a new position to position the video. depicts the leader s avatar making a time out gesture when the leader selects a particular trick mode. The screen may also indicate as shown that the host is using the video controls and that the user may expect a change in the rendered display. depicts the leader s user interface as the leader fast forwards through the content to select a new position in the content. depicts a user interface screen that may be presented to the users in the group after the leader has selected a new position from which viewing is to be resumed. As shown each user s console may indicate that the console is buffering and synchronizing to the new viewing position.

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary process for providing a shared media experience in a group comprising two or more users each user operating a respective computing device and communicatively coupled via a network including operations and . The illustrated operations are exemplary and do not imply a particular order. Process illustrates establishing membership in the group.

Process illustrates participating in a process for selecting a media entity to be shared by the group. Such a process may include for example receiving on one of the computing devices a request to join the group sending the input to a shared media service provider and receiving an indication of acceptance into the group receiving data describing media entities selected by other members of the group and rendering representations of the received media entities on a user interface device coupled to the respective computing device receiving a nomination identifying one of the media entities and sending the nomination to the shared media service provider displaying on the user interface device along with the representations of the received media entities avatars representing the users of the group receiving an indication of an emotion from the one of the users and in response causing the avatar for said one of the users to perform an animation on the user interface device that conveys the selected emotion sending the selection of the emotion to the shared media service provider for sending to the other users of the group and receiving an indication of a selected media entity to be shared by the group and displaying a representation of the selected media entity on the user interface device wherein the selected media object is selected by one of the users of the group deemed to be a host of the group.

Process illustrates receiving indication of a selected media entity to be shared by the group and rendering a representation of the selected media entity on one of the computing devices.

Process illustrates receiving data for rendering the selected media entity and rendering the received data on a user interface device coupled to said one of the computing devices.

Process illustrates displaying on said user interface device along with the data for rendering the selected media entity avatars representing the users of the group the avatars rendered so as to depict a shared media experience. As noted above the selected media entity may be a movie and said rendering the received data may further comprise rendering a simulated viewing environment and rendering the avatars such that the avatars appear to be sitting in a group seating environment and viewing the movie on a screen. In one embodiment the simulated viewing environment may be selectable from a predetermined list of themes. Furthermore an option may be provided to view the movie in a full view mode wherein the simulated viewing environment and rendering of the avatars is hidden from view.

Process illustrates receiving an indication of an emotion from one of the users and in response causing the avatar corresponding to said one of the users to perform an animation on said user interface device that conveys the indicated emotion. In an embodiment the emotion is selected from an emote wheel comprising a plurality of representative emotions. The emote wheel may be divided into pie shaped segments radiating from a center of the emote wheel and each of the representative emotions may be represented as one of the pie shaped segments. In an embodiment a random animation may be displayed based on the selected emotion.

As noted above the representative emotions may be selected based on film genres. For example the emotions comprise love hate funny bored happy sad mischievous and scared. In an embodiment the random animation may comprise one of at ease cheer disappointed dance looking nervous neutral surprised taunt thinking and walk.

In an embodiment input means may be provided for said one of the users to provide an input indicating a request to pause the rendering of the media entity. Furthermore input means may also be provided for said one of the users to provide an input to indicating a request to fast forward or rewind the rendering of the media entity.

Input means may also be provided for said one of the users to provide an input to indicating a request to render a predefined audio effect during the rendering of the media entity wherein the audio effect corresponds to one of the representative emotions.

Block illustrates instructions for receiving indication of a selected media entity to be shared by the group. Block illustrates instructions for sending data for rendering the selected media entity on a user interface device coupled to the respective computing device.

Block illustrates facilitating the exchange of information for avatars and associated avatar emotions the avatars representing the users of the group and the avatar emotions comprising indications of emotions selected by the one or more users the avatar emotion information sufficient to allow one of the computing devices to render an animation that conveys the indicated emotion for an associated avatar.

Any of the above mentioned aspects can be implemented in methods systems computer readable media or any type of manufacture. For example per a computer readable medium can store thereon computer executable instructions for providing a shared media experience in a group comprising two or more users each user operating a respective computing device and communicatively coupled via a network. Such media can comprise a first subset of instructions for receiving indication of a selected media entity to be shared by the group and rendering a representation of the selected media entity on said one of the computing devices a second subset of instructions for receiving data for rendering the selected media entity and rendering the received data on a user interface device coupled to the respective computing device a third subset of instructions for displaying on said user interface device along with the data for rendering the selected media entity avatars representing the users of the group the avatars rendered so as to depict a shared media experience a fourth subset of instructions for receiving an indication of an emotion from said one of the users and in response causing the avatar for said one of the users to perform an animation on said user interface device that conveys the selected emotion and a fifth subset of instructions for sending the selection of the emotion to a service provider for sending to the other users of the group . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that additional sets of instructions can be used to capture the various other aspects disclosed herein and that the presently disclosed subsets of instructions can vary in detail per the present disclosure.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosure or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosure. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the disclosure e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

