---

title: User-defined coverage of media-player devices on online social networks
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes sending, from a client system to a media-player device, an indication that a user is logged into an online social network via an application. The media-player device includes antennas, and power levels of the antennas are set to maximum in response to receiving the indication. An orientation position of the client system with respect to the media-player device is determined based on broadcast signals received from the antennas. At each boundary position of the client system, where each boundary position in range of an antenna, a broadcast signal is received from the antenna. Signal strengths are determined for the received broadcast signals. Instructions to adjust a power level of each of the antennas based on the determined signal strengths are sent to the media-player device. The power levels are adjusted to define a broadcast range based on the orientation and boundary positions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09425869&OS=09425869&RS=09425869
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09425869
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150826
---
This disclosure generally relates to communicating with a media player device particularly within the context of an online social network.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may send over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

Social graph analysis views social relationships in terms of network theory consisting of nodes and edges. Nodes represent the individual actors within the networks and edges represent the relationships between the actors. The resulting graph based structures are often very complex. There can be many types of nodes and many types of edges for connecting nodes. In its simplest form a social graph is a map of all of the relevant edges between all the nodes being studied.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may authenticate a user to a media device player when the user s client system is proximate to the media device player in order to enhance the user s media viewing experience. The media player device may have social networking functionality and may communicate with a social networking system. The media device player may be coupled via a wired or wireless connection to a display screen e.g. television and the media device player may provide streaming media content e.g. television shows movies music music videos or any other suitable media content for display on the display screen. As an example and not by way of limitation the media player device may retrieve the media content for streaming via a wireless internet connection directly from the content providers. A user may be seamlessly and securely authenticated to the media player device based on a unique authentication key sent from the media player device and received at the application on the client system. The authentication key may be generated by a social networking system and sent to the media player device which in turn sends the authentication key to a user s client system that is in range of the media player device s broadcast. An application on the user s client system may communicate with the social networking system in order to verify that the authentication key is correct i.e. not spoofed and in response to this verification may send location information of the user s client system e.g. location data acquired via Global Positioning System GPS functionality and social networking information of the user. The media device player may then authenticate the user to the media player device. As an example and not by way of limitation the first user to be authenticated to a media player device may be registered as the owner of the media player device. The first user may then dictate via settings of the media player device which other users may be authenticated as guest users when in range of the media player device.

In particular embodiments a range of each antenna of a media player device may be adjusted based on the signal strengths of broadcast signals received from the antennas at an application running on a client system. As an example and not by way of limitation a user who is authenticated to the media player device e.g. the owner may initiate an application running on the user s client system in order to define the range of coverage of the media player device. The application may receive broadcast signals from the antennas of the media player device as the user walks around boundaries of a desired range of coverage e.g. the perimeter of a room in which the media player device is located . The application may determine the orientation of the client system with respect to the media player device and at various positions in the room a signal strength of a broadcast signal received at the client system from an antenna of the media player device. The application running on the user s client system may determine adjusted output power levels for the antennas based on the determined signal strengths. The application may send instructions to the media player device to adjust the output power level of each antenna of the media player device to the adjusted output power levels. In this manner the user may set the desired range of coverage for the media player device via the application running on the user s client system.

The embodiments disclosed above are only examples and the scope of this disclosure is not limited to them. Particular embodiments may include all some or none of the components elements features functions operations or steps of the embodiments disclosed above. Embodiments according to the invention are in particular disclosed in the attached claims directed to a method a storage medium a system and a computer program product wherein any feature mentioned in one claim category e.g. method can be claimed in another claim category e.g. system as well. The dependencies or references back in the attached claims are chosen for formal reasons only. However any subject matter resulting from a deliberate reference back to any previous claims in particular multiple dependencies can be claimed as well so that any combination of claims and the features thereof are disclosed and can be claimed regardless of the dependencies chosen in the attached claims. The subject matter which can be claimed comprises not only the combinations of features as set out in the attached claims but also any other combination of features in the claims wherein each feature mentioned in the claims can be combined with any other feature or combination of other features in the claims. Furthermore any of the embodiments and features described or depicted herein can be claimed in a separate claim and or in any combination with any embodiment or feature described or depicted herein or with any of the features of the attached claims.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system to whom they want to be connected. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. with which servers may communicate. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. check in causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. a check in type edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship including e.g. liking etc. follower relationship visitor relationship including e.g. accessing viewing checking in sharing etc. subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to an edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

Particular embodiments facilitate the authentication of a user s client system to a media device player or other suitable geographic positioning capable devices or systems associated with social networking system . As used herein a media player device may be any device suitable for wirelessly communicating with any number of client systems proximate to the media player device. A media player device may be communicatively coupled via a wireless or wired connection to at least one display screen and able to communicate wirelessly with social networking system . A media player device may send and receive wireless communications via for example radio frequency identification near field communication ultrasonic waves BLUETOOTH e.g. short range radio frequencies BLUETOOTH low energy or any other suitable wireless communication method particularly short range wireless communication methods e.g. less than approximately 300 feet . Media player devices may be touch sensitive so as to detect when a user or client system makes contact with the surface of the media player device and to authenticate a client system to the media player device in response to the detected touch. Media player devices may have any of the hardware or software features of the types described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 460 886 titled Bluetooth Crowd Sourced Triangulation filed 15 Aug. 2014 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 460 880 titled Bluetooth Transmission Security Pattern filed 15 Aug. 2014 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 460 891 titled Bluetooth Beacon Protocol filed 15 Aug. 2014 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 416 975 titled Dynamic Processor Duty Cycle Determination Based on Geographic Positioning Signals filed 9 Mar. 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 417 013 titled Location Tracking for Geographic Positioning Capable Devices filed 9 Mar. 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 431 842 titled Dynamic Geographic Beacons for Geographic Positioning Capable Devices filed 27 Mar. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference herein. A media player device may be able to communicate wirelessly with one or more third party content providers. Third party content providers may be for example and not by way of limitation owners and or distributors of media content e.g. music and visual media content . When a user s client system comes into range of a media player device e.g. a client system may be in range of a media player device if it is in range of at least one antenna of the media player device and can receive a signal from the at least one antenna or makes contact with the media player device e.g. the user taps the media player device with her client system client system may be authenticated to the media player device based on wireless communications between client system and the media player device. Client system may be automatically authenticated to the media player device in the background or confirmation from the user e.g. a response to a prompt displayed via an application on the client system may be required before the client system is authenticated to the media player device. Although this disclosure describes authenticating client system to a media player device in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates establishing any suitable authentication in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the media player device may have any suitable number of antennas e.g. directional antennas for sending and receiving wireless communications. An application on a client system may be used to define a range of each of the antennas based on the strength of signals received from the media player device antennas at client system . Although this disclosure describes defining the range of the antennas of a media player device in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates defining the range of the antennas of the media player device in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments a user may be registered to a media player device in response to client system of the user being authenticated to media player device . Media player device may be situated at a designated location within a place e.g. a living room of a user of social networking system or a third party e.g. associated with third party system . When media player device is first powered on e.g. by the user who purchased media player device it may automatically enter a discovery mode. While in discovery mode media player device may broadcast a signal for a predetermined period of time e.g. a five minute window . The broadcast signal may be as an example and not by way of limitation an authentication key generated by social networking system . In particular embodiments when media player device enters discovery mode it may send to social networking system a request for an authentication key. In particular embodiments when media player device detects that client system is within a wireless communication range of media player device i.e. a user associated with client system moves into range of media player device media player device may send to social networking system a request for an authentication key. Social networking system may generate and send the authentication key to media player device in response to the request. The authentication key may be as an example and not by way of limitation an alphanumeric sequence or any suitable randomly generated sequence. Media player device may send to social networking system a request for a new authentication key for each new broadcast. As an example and not by way of limitation for each unique broadcast e.g. each five minute broadcast while media player device is in discovery mode media player device may broadcast a different unique authentication key retrieved from social networking system . Media player device may broadcast the authentication key using as an example and not by way of limitation a short range radio frequency e.g. BLUETOOTH .

Client system may receive the broadcast authentication key when client system comes within range of media player device e.g. the range may encompass a particular room in the user s house . In particular embodiments in order to receive the authentication key a native application associated with social networking system must be running on the user s client system and the user of client system must be logged into an online social network via native application . Native application may receive the authentication key sent from media player device . As an example and not by way of limitation media player device may broadcast an authentication key for one or more predetermined time intervals and native application running on client system may receive the authentication key during the one or more predetermined time intervals. In particular embodiments native application may send the received authentication key to social networking system for verification. Because social networking system generates the authentication key that is broadcast by media player device and received by native application running on client system social networking system may verify the authentication key sent to social networking system by client system e.g. confirm that the authentication key sent by social networking system to media player device is the same alphanumeric sequence as the authentication key received by social networking system from client system . Thus the authentication process is secure against spoofing attacks because both ends of the authentication process the generation of the authentication key and the verification of the authentication key by the native application are associated with the social networking system .

In response to verifying the authentication key with social networking system native application may send location information of client system and social networking information of the user of client system to media player device . Location information may include as an example and not by way of limitation location information determined using GPS functionality or any other suitable geographic positioning functionality. As another example and not by way of limitation location information may be determined by social networking system based on social networking actions taken by the user e.g. the user checked in at a page or event associated with a place at which the media player is located . Social networking information of a user may include for example and not by way of limitation demographic information e.g. age gender nationality race ethnicity and locality biographic information e.g. name picture birthday and astrological sign preferences e.g. music book movie and food preferences payment credentials purchase history loyalty points or credits allergies and other medical information social graph information e.g. social connections within a threshold degree of separation in social graph and social networking information of those connections any other information stored in a profile of the user on social networking system any other suitable information pertaining to the user or any combination thereof. As another example and not by way of limitation the set of social networking information received by third party system may include identifiers of one or more second users who are connected to a first user of client system in social graph by a threshold degree of separation e.g. first degree connections may be friends of the first user .

Media player device may register the user to media player device based on the received location information of client system and social networking information of the user. In particular embodiments media player device may only register the user to media player device if the location information of the user s client system indicates that the user is within a threshold distance of media player device e.g. within 100 feet . In particular embodiments media player device may identify the user based on the received social networking information and may register the user to media player device based on the determined identify of the user.

In particular embodiments when media player device is first powered on e.g. connected to display screen the first user to be authenticated to media player device may be registered as the owner of media player device . One or more additional users of social networking system may be registered as guest users of media player device . Once the first user s client system is authenticated to media player device and the user is registered as the owner of media player device the first user may specify in settings one or more second users of social networking system who may be registered as guest users of media placer device after their respective client systems are each authenticated to media player device . In particular embodiments the first user may be prompted e.g. at the first user s client system to confirm authentication and or registration of any second users before the authentication and or registration is completed. As an example and not by way of limitation a media player device may be registered to a first user the registered owner of the media player device and a second user s client system may come within range of media player device . Media player device may retrieve and broadcast an authentication key as described above and an application running on the client system of the second user may verify the authentication key with social networking system . Client system may then send location information of the client system of the second user and social networking information of the second user to media player device . Media player device may determine based on the location information and the social networking information of the second user whether to register the second user to the media player device . In the same example the first user may specify in settings of media player device that only first degree connections in social graph may be registered as guest users to media player device . Media player device may determine based on the social networking information of the second user that the second user is a first degree connection of the first user in social graph and may then register the second user to media player device as a guest user in accordance with the first user s specified permissions.

In particular embodiments the particular set of social networking information of a user that is sent to media player device may be subject to a set of permissions e.g. privacy preferences specified by the user or other restrictions imposed by the online social network. The social networking information of a user may be automatically shared with media player device in accordance with a user specified set of permissions. The set of permissions may permit sharing of certain social networking information of the user based on social graph information e.g. connections within a threshold degree of separation . As an example and not by way of limitation the set of permissions may allow a set of social networking information to be sent to media player device based on a degree of separation in social graph between a node corresponding to a first user i.e. registered owner of media player device and a node corresponding to a second user.

In particular embodiments once a user has been registered to a media player device media player device may tailor the displayed content of media player device to the registered user. The social networking information of the registered user may be used by the media player device to customize content e.g. retrieved from one or more third party content providers for display to the registered user e.g. via one or more display screens communicatively coupled to the media player device as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 836 300 titled Customizing Media Content on Online Social Networks filed 26 Aug. 2015 which is incorporated by reference herein.

In particular embodiments media player device may provide customized media content for display to the user e.g. via display screen if the user is registered to media player device and the user s client system is in proximity to a media player device e.g. in the same room as media player device . In particular embodiments media player device may provide customized media content for display to the user if the user is registered to media player device and the user s client system is in an active wireless connection with media player device e.g. client system and media player device are paired via a BLUETOOTH connection . In particular embodiments media player device may retrieve media content from one or more third party content providers e.g. an advertiser or a subscription based media content provider and may determine what of the retrieved content is displayed to the user via display screen based on social networking information of the user. A client system may be authenticated to and a user may be registered to media player device using any of the techniques described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 836 206 titled Authenticating Users to Media Player Devices on Online Social Networks filed 26 Aug. 2015 which is incorporated by reference herein.

In particular embodiments the process of authenticating and registering a client system and user to media player device may be seamless i.e. it may not require any user input in order for the user s client system to be authenticated to or for a user to be registered to media player device . In particular embodiments as described in connection with user input responding to a prompt may be required in order to complete the authentication of the client system and or the registration of the user to media player device .

In particular embodiments when prompt is displayed at client system media player device may cause an authentication screen to be displayed simultaneously at display screen . The authentication screen may provide as an example and not by way of limitation instructions to authenticate via prompt at client system or to enter a code or other credential at media player device . The code may be as an example and not by way of limitation received at native application .

In particular embodiments a user may specify in settings whether or not and how a prompt may be displayed. As an example and not by way of limitation native application may be associated with social networking system and prompt may be displayed in an interface of native application e.g. in news feed . Although described and depicted in a particular way it will be understood that this is by way of illustration not by way of limitation and prompt may be any suitable type of prompt. As an example and not by way of limitation prompt may be a push notification provided on a lock screen of client system or hovering over any suitable screen of client system . As another example and not by way of limitation prompt may be a type of reaction card which may be presented to a user of the type described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 466 269 titled Generating Cards in Response to User Actions on Online Social Networks filed 22 Aug. 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of as being implemented by media player device this disclosure contemplates any suitable embodiments of occurring on any suitable interface and as being implemented by any suitable platform or system. As an example and not by way of limitation particular embodiments of may be implemented by client system . Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

Once a user has been registered as an owner of media player device the user may define the range of media player device . As an example and not by way of limitation an application on a client system of the user may communicate with antennas of media player device over BLUETOOTH in order to set a range of coverage of media player device . Particular arrangements of antennas on a media player device and calibration of these antennas based on communications with an application on a user s client system are described below in connection with .

Antennas A B C and D may have respective ranges A B C and D. In other words antennas A B C and D may generate signals e.g. BLUETOOTH signals that have a respective range A B C and D. In particular embodiments one or more of antennas A B C and D may generate a radiation pattern in a first plane e.g. the first plane may horizontally bisect media player device and the radiation pattern may radiate in substantially 360 degrees of the first plane. As an example and not by way of limitation the radiation pattern may provide coverage for the major part of a room in which the media player device is situated e.g. 30 feet in every direction on the first plane . In particular embodiments media player device may have a fifth antenna that is positioned on media player device such that it generates a radiation pattern that radiates in a second plane where the second plane is substantially perpendicular to the first plane. As an example and not by way of limitation antennas A B C and D may be directional antennas that radiate in a plane horizontal to the ground whereas the fifth antenna may be a bidirectional antenna that radiates in a plane perpendicular to the ground.

In particular embodiments a user registered as an owner of media player device may by an application running on the user s client system define a range A B C and D of each antenna A B C and D. Once a user is registered to media player device a client system of the user may send to the media player device an indication that the user is logged into the online social network via a native application associated with the online social network . Client system may send this indication when client system is within range of at least one of the antennas A B C and D of the media player device . In response to receiving this indication media player device may enter a calibration mode and set a power level of each of antennas A B C and D to a maximum power level. Client system may determine an orientation position of client system with respect to media player device . The orientation position may be determined based on one or more broadcast signals received from one or more of antennas A B C and D of media player device . As an example and not by way of limitation client system may determine that it has received broadcast signals only from antenna A and thus that it is in range A with respect to media player device .

After the orientation position has been determined by client system the user may walk a perimeter of a desired zone of coverage e.g. an area to be covered by the combined ranges A B C and D with his client system where the perimeter is defined by any suitable number of boundary positions on the user s walk. Client system may be in calibration mode listening for broadcast signals from antennas A B C and D. Client system may receive from media player device at any suitable number of boundary positions broadcast signals from one or more of antennas A B C and D. Each boundary position may be in at least one of the ranges A B C and D and when client system is in a particular range A B C or D it may receive a broadcast signal from the respective antenna A B C or D. In particular embodiments client system receives at least one signal from at least one antenna A B C and D while at a boundary position within the respective at least one range A B C or D.

Client system may calculate a signal strength for each of the received signals e.g. a relative signal strength index RSSI value using any suitable technique. Client system may then determine for each calculated RSSI value and for the particular make and model of client system an output power level e.g. in decibels dB for the respective antenna from which each broadcast signal was received. In particular embodiments client system may transmit the determined RSSI values to social networking system . Social networking system may have previously determined the make and model of client system e.g. IPHONE 5S when native application was downloaded to client system so the signal strength for the particular client system at various distances is known. Social networking system may use this information to create a device to antenna characterization plot. Social networking system may then correlate the RSSI values to output power levels for each of the antennas A B C or D of media player device based on the device to antenna characterization plot for the particular make and model of client system .

Client system may determine a low power level for a particular antenna A B C or D when the determined signal strengths of broadcast signals received at boundary positions of client system in range A B C or D of the particular antenna being high values. Similarly client system may determine a high power level for a particular antenna A B C or D when the determined signal strengths of broadcast signals received at boundary positions of client system in range A B C or D of the particular antenna being low values. The determined power levels may each be based on a lowest determined signal strength value for the respective antenna A B C and D. As an example and not by way of limitation client system may receive more than one broadcast signal from antenna A while at one or more boundary positions within range A of antenna A and client system may determine signal strengths for each of those received broadcast signals. Client system may determine the power level based on the lowest of the determined signal strengths. In particular embodiments if no signal is received from one or more of antennas A B C and D meaning no signals strengths are determined for broadcast signals received from one or more of antennas A B C and D client system may determine a power level of zero for the one or more antennas A B C and D.

Client system may then send to media player device instructions to adjust a power level of each of antennas A B C and D based on the determined signal strengths. Media player device may in response to the instructions received from client system adjust the power levels of antennas A B C and D to define a range of broadcast of the antennas A B C and D based on the orientation position and the boundary positions of the client system. Although described as defining the range of broadcast for four antennas A B C and D the user may by way of client system define the range for each of any suitable number of antennas.

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of as being implemented by client system this disclosure contemplates any suitable embodiments of occurring on any suitable interface and as being implemented by any suitable platform or system. As an example and not by way of limitation particular embodiments of may be implemented by a native application running on client system . Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates as having two media player devices A and B this disclosure contemplates any suitable embodiments of occurring on any suitable interface and as being implemented by any suitable platform or system. As an example and not by way of limitation particular embodiments of may have any suitable number of media player devices A and B. Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In particular embodiments one or more of the content objects of the online social network may be associated with a privacy setting. The privacy settings or access settings for an object may be stored in any suitable manner such as for example in association with the object in an index on an authorization server in another suitable manner or any combination thereof. A privacy setting of an object may specify how the object or particular information associated with an object can be accessed e.g. viewed or shared using the online social network. Where the privacy settings for an object allow a particular user to access that object the object may be described as being visible with respect to that user. As an example and not by way of limitation a user of the online social network may specify privacy settings for a user profile page identify a set of users that may access the work experience information on the user profile page thus excluding other users from accessing the information. In particular embodiments the privacy settings may specify a blocked list of users that should not be allowed to access certain information associated with the object. In other words the blocked list may specify one or more users or entities for which an object is not visible. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may specify a set of users that may not access photos albums associated with the user thus excluding those users from accessing the photo albums while also possibly allowing certain users not within the set of users to access the photo albums . In particular embodiments privacy settings may be associated with particular social graph elements. Privacy settings of a social graph element such as a node or an edge may specify how the social graph element information associated with the social graph element or content objects associated with the social graph element can be accessed using the online social network. As an example and not by way of limitation a particular concept node corresponding to a particular photo may have a privacy setting specifying that the photo may only be accessed by users tagged in the photo and their friends. In particular embodiments privacy settings may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system . In particular embodiments the privacy settings associated with an object may specify any suitable granularity of permitted access or denial of access. As an example and not by way of limitation access or denial of access may be specified for particular users e.g. only me my roommates and my boss users within a particular degrees of separation e.g. friends or friends of friends user groups e.g. the gaming club my family user networks e.g. employees of particular employers students or alumni of particular university all users public no users private users of third party systems particular applications e.g. third party applications external websites other suitable users or entities or any combination thereof. Although this disclosure describes using particular privacy settings in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates using any suitable privacy settings in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may be authorization privacy servers for enforcing privacy settings. In response to a request from a user or other entity for a particular object stored in a data store social networking system may send a request to the data store for the object. The request may identify the user associated with the request and may only be sent to the user or a client system of the user if the authorization server determines that the user is authorized to access the object based on the privacy settings associated with the object. If the requesting user is not authorized to access the object the authorization server may prevent the requested object from being retrieved from the data store or may prevent the requested object from be sent to the user. In the search query context an object may only be generated as a search result if the querying user is authorized to access the object. In other words the object must have a visibility that is visible to the querying user. If the object has a visibility that is not visible to the user the object may be excluded from the search results. Although this disclosure describes enforcing privacy settings in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates enforcing privacy settings in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements feature functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements features functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

