---

title: Sink and shower handle restraint
abstract: Systems and methods are provided herein for restraining sink and shower handles. In a first aspect of a sink handle restraint, a first sink handle cuff fits over a first sink handle of a sink faucet, and a second sink handle cuff fits over a second sink handle of the sink faucet. The first sink handle cuff and second sink handle cuff slide along an elongated element that locks the first sink handle cuff and second sink handle cuff into place, preventing the first and second sink handles from being rotated into an “on” position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09534703&OS=09534703&RS=09534703
owner: 
number: 09534703
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150218
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 941 373 entitled SINKS AND SHOWER HANDLE RESTRAINTS filed on Feb. 18 2014 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Generally control handles for residential sink and shower water valves are within reach of small children. A child that can reach a water valve control handle for a sink or shower may trigger undesired water use that can cause overflow of water scalding or even drowning. Reports have shown that significant numbers of children have been scalded due to excessively hot water and have drowned in bathtubs. Many of these injuries and deaths have occurred when a caregiver was not present and many could have been prevented. A device that prevents such accidents is needed.

It is with respect to these and other general considerations that embodiments have been disclosed herein. Also although relatively specific problems have been discussed it should be understood that the embodiments should not be limited to solving the specific problems identified in the background.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment describes a sink handle restraint including a first sink handle cuff that includes a first hollow cylindrical body adapted to slide over a first sink handle and a first protruding conduit defining a first gap where the first protruding conduit is formed on an outer surface of the first hollow cylindrical body. The sink handle restraint further including a second sink handle cuff including a second hollow cylindrical body adapted to slide over a second sink handle and a second protruding conduit defining a second gap where the second protruding conduit is formed on an outer surface of the second hollow cylindrical body. The sink handle restraint further including an elongated element including a first end opposite a second end the first end adapted to pass into the first gap defined by the first protruding conduit and the second end adapted to pass into the second gap defined by the second protruding conduit thereby adjustably coupling the first sink handle cuff to the second handle cuff.

Another embodiment describes a shower handle restraint including a circular cover plate that has a radial pathway defined between an outer border of the circular cover plate and an inner border of the circular cover plate where the radial pathway includes a plurality of serrated grips. The shower handle restraint further includes a shower handle cuff including a hollow cylindrical body adapted to slide over a shower handle and a base defining a guide adapted to slide along the radial pathway of the circular cover plate and engage at least one serrated grip.

Another embodiment describes a method for installing a sink handle restraint the method including sliding a first sink handle cuff over a first sink handle and inserting a first end of an elongated element into a first protruding conduit of the first sink handle cuff. The method further includes sliding a second sink handle cuff over a second sink handle and inserting a second end of the elongated element into a second protruding conduit of the second sink handle cuff thereby coupling the first sink handle cuff to the second sink handle cuff.

These and various other features as well as advantages that characterize the systems and methods described herein will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. Additional features are set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the technology. The benefits and features of the technology will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the claims.

As disclosed herein an apparatus is provided that may restrain a sink or shower handle. The apparatus may be easily installed and removed by someone other than a small child. However the restraint may keep a small child or one who is elderly infirm or has special needs from turning the sink or shower handle to in undesired position thereby preventing inadvertent harm to the child or one who is elderly infirm or has special needs .

Systems and methods are provided herein for restraining sink and shower handles. In a first aspect of a sink handle restraint a first sink handle cuff fits over a first sink handle of a sink faucet and a second sink handle cuff fits over a second sink handle of the sink faucet. The first sink handle cuff and second sink handle cuff slide along an elongated element that locks the first sink handle cuff and second sink handle cuff in place preventing the first and second sink handles from being turned.

In a second aspect of a sink handle restraint a first sink handle cuff fits over a first sink handle of a sink faucet and a second sink handle cuff fits over a second sink handle of the sink faucet. The second sink handle cuff slides along an elongated locking element coupled to the first sink handle cuff thereby coupling the first sink handle cuff and the second sink handle cuff and preventing the first and second sink handles from being turned.

In a third aspect of a shower handle restraint a shower handle cuff fits over a shower handle and a base of the shower handle cuff locks onto a circular cover plate. The circular cover plate is attached to a wall of a shower or a base of the shower handle. When the shower handle cuff is fitted over a shower handle and locked onto the circular cover plate the sink handle is prevented from being turned.

Various embodiments are described more fully below with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show specific exemplary embodiments. However embodiments may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the embodiments to those skilled in the art.

Embodiments may be practiced as methods systems or devices. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

For example sink handle cuff may include a substantially hollow cylindrical body that defines an open end and a receiving end . In aspects sink handle cuff may further include a first longitudinal extension from at least one side of the hollow cylindrical body . For example first longitudinal extension may be semi cylindrical and may be useful for gripping a sink handle such that it is guided into hollow cylindrical body . This gripping function enables secure connections and facilitates installation for various sized and shaped handles. In a second example the hollow cylindrical body may not include a first longitudinal extension . Additionally or alternatively sink handle cuff may include a second longitudinal extension from at least one side of the hollow cylindrical body . In some aspects the first longitudinal extension may extend from an opposite side of the hollow cylindrical body than the second longitudinal extension . The second longitudinal extension may be semi cylindrical. In further aspects the second longitudinal extension may extend farther longitudinally from hollow cylindrical body than first longitudinal extension

Additionally sink handle cuff may include a protruding conduit that defines a gap adapted to receive elongated element . In embodiments protruding conduit may extend from an outer surface of a back side of second longitudinal extension . Additionally protruding conduit may include a locking element . Locking element may be a tab tooth lip flange pawl or other type of engaging element formed in or coupled to protruding conduit . Further protruding conduit may include a release tab on an opposing side of protruding conduit from the locking element . Release tab may be formed with or coupled to locking element so as to counterbalance actuation of locking element

Hollow cylindrical body of sink handle cuff defines a receiving end that is adapted to fit over a variety of sizes of sink handles not shown . In some aspects an inner cylindrical surface of sink handle cuff may include a liner not shown that may act as a buffer element between inner cylindrical surface and an outer surface of a sink handle not shown . For example the liner may prevent scratching of sink handles and may facilitate a more secure fit for sink handle cuffs and . In aspects the liner may be made of rubber silicone plastic felt and the like. Sink handle cuff is substantially the same as sink handle cuff and therefore incorporates the same or similar descriptions. For example sink handle cuff may include a substantially hollow cylindrical body having a protruding conduit that defines a gap or opening and includes a locking element with a release tab etc.

Elongated element may include a first end and an opposing second end connected by an elongated central portion . In aspects the elongated element may include a midpoint that is substantially equidistant from the first end and the second end within the elongated central portion . Elongated element may further have both rigid and flexible properties. That is the elongated element may be at least partially rigid and at least partially flexible. In aspects the elongated element may be suitably rigid so as to securely couple sink handle cuff and sink handle cuff such that first and second sink handles are firmly held in an off position. In other aspects the elongated element may be suitably flexible such that the sink handle restraint is adapted for easy installation and adjustable for different sizes styles and positioning of sink handles. For example the elongated element may be in the form of an elongated rectangular strap band belt bracket brace or the like. Elongated element is defined by an elongated axis A.

In addition elongated element may have a plurality of slots e.g. slots located along one or both sides. For example each of the plurality of slots is positioned with substantially uniform spacing along the elongated element in an orthogonal orientation with respect to axis A. In aspects slots may extend from an upper surface through an interior and out a lower surface to form a plurality of apertures through elongated element . In other aspects slots may extend from the upper surface into the interior to form a plurality of grooves or indentions in elongated element . In still other aspects slots may be in the form of raised ridges along the elongated element . The plurality of slots may be adapted to receive or engage the locking element of sink handle cuff and or a corresponding locking element of sink handle cuff .

In aspects the locking element may engage at least one slot of the plurality of slots . For example locking element may adjustably engage a first slot of the plurality of slots such that sink handle cuff is in a first position with respect to the elongated element . Alternatively locking element may adjustably engage a second slot of the plurality of slots such that sink handle cuff is in a second position with respect to the elongated element . In embodiments the sink handle cuff may be closer to the midpoint of the elongated element when engaged in the first position than in the second position. Thus the sink handle cuff may be adjustably positioned along the elongated element by selectively engaging different slots of the plurality of slots .

Sink handle cuff sink handle cuff and elongated element may be made of any suitable material e.g. plastic rubber metal metal alloy etc. In aspects sink handle cuff sink handle cuff and elongated element may be made of substantially the same material or different materials. Moreover the sink handle cuff sink handle cuff and elongated element may be manufactured or produced by any suitable method e.g. machining molding casting forming joining pressing 3D printing etc.

In the same manner as described above sink handle cuff may be slidably removed and detached from elongated element . For example release tab may be actuated to disengage locking element see inserted cross sectional view from the at least one slot thereby disengaging the sink handle cuff from the elongated element . In aspects locking element see inserted cross sectional view may be disengaged by pressing down on release tab thereby tensionally disengaging locking element from the at least one slot. In some aspects sink handle cuff may be slidably removed and detached from elongated element while release tab is pressed down or actuated. In other aspects actuating release tab will disengage locking element until locking element is reengaged or actuated allowing sink handle cuff to be slidably removed and detached from elongated element without continually pressing down or actuating release tab . In this embodiment activation of release tab may actuate locking element between a locked closed position and an unlocked open position.

In further aspects sink handle cuff may be adjustably positioned with respect to sink handle cuff by selectively engaging locking elements and with various slots . For example in a first position sink handle cuff may be positioned closer to a midpoint of the elongated element . In the first position sink handle cuff and sink handle cuff may be coupled closer to one another along the elongated element . Additionally in the first position sink handle cuff and sink handle cuff may be more tightly coupled to one another. Alternatively in a second position sink handle cuff may be positioned farther from the midpoint of the elongated element . In the second position sink handle cuff and sink handle cuff may be coupled farther from one another along the elongated element . Additionally in the second position sink handle cuff and sink handle cuff may be more loosely coupled to one another. In some embodiments positioning of sink handle cuff with respect to sink handle cuff is based at least in part on a positioning of a first sink handle with respect to a second sink handle. In this regard sink handle cuff may be adjustably positioned along the elongated element so as to accommodate variable positioning of a first sink handle and a second sink handle while maintaining tight coupling between sink handle cuffs and

To detach and remove sink handle cuff from elongated element release tab may be pressed or otherwise actuated thereby tensionally disengaging locking element from the at least one slot of elongated element . While the release tab is held down or otherwise actuated sink handle cuff may be slidably removed and detached from elongated element in a manner as described with respect to . Alternatively upon actuating release tab sink handle cuff may be slidably removed and detached from elongated element .

In aspects removal of sink handle cuff may involve pressing or otherwise actuating a release tab see inserted cross sectional view which may disengage locking element from the at least one slot not shown . Upon disengaging the locking element sink handle cuff may be removed by withdrawing the sink handle cuff away from sink handle along the elongated element in the horizontal plane P which is substantially parallel to axes Aof the sink handle and Aof the sink handle cuff . Sink handle cuff may be similarly engaged and removed from elongated element .

As detailed above elongated element may include a plurality of slots . Thus in aspects sink handle restraint has a wide range of adjustability and may be configured for a variety of faucet embodiments. For example as illustrated in each faucet embodiment depicts sink handles that are directed radially from one another and located substantially adjacent to a faucet spout from which liquid is dispensed. In these depicted faucet embodiments sink handle cuffs are located substantially near a midpoint of elongated element . However in a different faucet embodiment the sink handles may be spaced further apart from one another and or further away from the faucet spout from which liquid is dispensed. In this aspect sink handle cuffs and may be spaced farther apart i.e. towards ends and of elongated element . It should be appreciated that due to the flexibility of the present system in embodiments where sink handle cuffs are spaced farther apart sink handle restraint is still able to restrict rotation of the respective sink handles and .

Female part includes a sink handle cuff a strut and a female locking member . The strut extends between the sink handle cuff and the female locking member such that sink handle cuff is at an opposite end from the female locking member .

When sink handle restraint is in use the sink handle cuffs and envelope sink handles not shown that face in opposing directions. In aspects the male locking member and the female locking member are engagable to firmly couple sink handle cuff with sink handle cuff . When engaged the sink handle cuffs and prevent the sink handles not shown from being rotated to an undesired on or hot position.

The circular cover plate may further define a radial pathway extending from the outer border to the inner border and having a predetermined width. In a first aspect the radial pathway may be defined by a radial depression or groove having a predetermined width. In some embodiments the radial depression may further include a plurality of serrated grips that run orthogonal to the axis Aalong the radial depression. In embodiments serrated grips may be flexible or inflexible ridges teeth grooves and the like. The plurality of serrated grips may be configured to receive a locking element of the base .

Alternatively the radial pathway may be defined by a radial cut out or aperture having a predetermined width. In embodiments the radial cut out may include at least one flange along at least one edge of the radial cut out. In some aspects the radial cut out may include two flanges extending along both edges of the radial cut out. In this case the two flanges may form a dual guide along radial pathway so as to slidably receive a base of the shower handle cuff . In additional aspects the two flanges of the radial pathway may include a plurality of serrated grips . In embodiments serrated grips may be flexible or inflexible ridges teeth grooves and the like. The plurality of serrated grips may be configured to receive a locking element of the base . In aspects the width of the radial pathway whether a radial depression or a radial aperture may be substantially the same as a width of base .

The shower handle cuff may include a hollow cylindrical body that includes a receiving end and an open end . The hollow cylindrical body is configured to receive a shower faucet handle not shown . Further the hollow cylindrical body is configured to receive a variety of sizes of shower handles not shown . The shower handle cuff may include an extended neck and the base . The hollow cylindrical body is located on an end of the extended neck that is distal from base . As detailed above the base may be configured to slidably engage with the plurality of serrated grips on flanges . Additionally the base is defined by base axis A.

Base of shower handle cuff defines a guide configured to receive the flanges of the dual path opening . In some aspects guide may be a lateral slit at least partially bisecting base longitudinally from a front edge toward a back edge of base but not completely bisecting base . Alternatively the guide may include one or more grooves on an outer surface of base that run longitudinally from a front edge toward a back edge along lateral sides of base . For example in some aspects one groove may be provided on one lateral side of base and another groove may be provided on an opposing lateral side of base . In still other aspects guide may include one or more ridges on an outer surface of base that run longitudinally from a front edge toward a back edge along lateral sides of base .

In further aspects base may include a locking element partially shown at or along a front edge of base . Locking element may be a lip ridge rim tab tooth pawl or other type of engaging element. The locking element may be configured to engage with at least one of the plurality of serrated grips on the one or more flanges .

To enter a locked position shower handle cuff may be advanced along a radial axis A of the circular cover plate so that a shower handle not shown is received in a receiving end of shower handle cuff . Substantially concurrently as shower handle cuff is advanced along a radial axis Aof the circular cover plate base is advanced into radial pathway such that at least one serrated grip of the radial pathway engages the locking element of base . For example in one aspect guide of base may comprise a lateral slit that advances over a radial depression of radial pathway whereby locking element engages at least one serrated grip along the radial depression. In another aspect guide of base may comprise one or more lateral grooves such that as base advances along radial pathway the lateral grooves slidably engage one or more flanges along edges of radial pathway whereby locking element engages at least one serrated grip along the one or more flanges. When locking element engages at least one of the plurality of serrated grips shower handle cuff is installed on the shower handle not shown such that the shower handle cannot be actuated to an on or hot position.

Shower handle cuff and circular cover plate may be made of any suitable material e.g. plastic rubber metal metal alloy etc. Additionally or alternatively shower handle cuff and circular cover plate may be made of a combination of materials. In some embodiments shower handle cuff and circular cover plate may be made of the same material or combination of materials. In other embodiments shower handle cuff and circular cover plate may be made of the different materials or different combinations of materials. Moreover shower handle cuff and circular cover plate may be manufactured or produced by any suitable method e.g. machining molding casting forming joining pressing 3D printing etc.

In further aspects the locking element partially shown of base of shower handle cuff may engage one of the plurality of serrated grips that are located on the flanges of the circular cover plate thereby coupling shower handle cuff to the circular cover plate .

In another embodiment shower handle cuff may include alternative embodiments of hollow cylindrical bodies configured in a manner such that the shower handle cuff may capture different sizes and styles of shower handles i.e. a shower handle that extends closer to or further away from a shower wall and or that includes a larger diameter shower handle . For example if the shower handle is placed closer to the wall a hollow cylindrical body that is nearer to the base of the shower handle cuff may receive the shower handle . In other examples if the shower handle is placed further from the wall a hollow cylindrical body that is further away from the base of the shower handle cuff may receive the shower handle . This may allow a shower handle restraint be configurable with a variety of different styles and sizes of shower handles.

In another embodiment hollow cylindrical body may be sized to fit various sized shower handles . That is hollow cylindrical body may have an increased diameter to fit a larger sized shower handle or a decreased in diameter to fit a smaller sized shower handle .

In some embodiments an inner cylindrical surface of hollow cylindrical body of shower handle cuff may include a liner not shown that may act as a buffer element between inner cylindrical surface and an outer surface of the shower handle . For example the liner may prevent scratching of shower handle and may facilitate a more secure fit for inner cylindrical surface . In aspects the liner may be made of rubber silicone plastic felt and the like.

In another embodiment shower handle cuff may include a neck that is adjustable. In this embodiment the hollow cylindrical body may be adjusted to a position nearer to the base or further away from the base of the shower handle cuff depending on the placement of shower handle . Because of the adjustability the shower handle restraint may be adapted to a variety of different shower handle styles and sizes.

In the same or another embodiment circular cover plate may include a number of radial pathways not shown placed in different locations around circular cover plate . This embodiment allows for the shower handle cuff to be placed in a variety of different positions so that the shower handle may be locked in different positions.

Inserting operation inserts a first end of an elongated element into a first gap defined by the first protruding conduit of the first sink handle cuff. In embodiments the elongated element includes a plurality of slots on at least an upper surface. Inserting operation includes inserting the elongated element into the first gap in an orientation such that the plurality of slots is adjacent to a first locking element associated with the first protruding conduit. Inserting operation may further include sliding the elongated body to a desired position with respect to the first sink handle cuff such that the locking element engages at least one slot of the elongated element.

In some cases inserting operation may be completed before sliding operation . In this aspect inserting operation inserts a first end of an elongated element into the first gap defined by the first protruding conduit on the first sink handle cuff. A coupled sink handle cuff may be formed upon coupling the first sink handle cuff to the elongated element. The coupled sink handle cuff may then be slid e.g. by sliding operation onto a first sink handle and positioned.

A second sliding operation slides a second sink handle cuff over a second sink handle. Sliding operation may include sliding a second hollow cylindrical body of the second sink handle cuff over the second sink handle so that the second sink handle is substantially encapsulated by the second hollow cylindrical body.

A second insert operation may include positioning the second sink handle cuff so that a second gap defined by a second protruding conduit on the second sink handle cuff receives a second end of the elongated body. Further insert operation may include advancing the second sink handle cuff onto the second sink handle and along the elongated element to a desired position. At the desired position insert operation includes advancing the second sink handle cuff along the elongated element such that the plurality of slots is adjacent to a second locking element associated with a second protruding conduit.

A locking operation may include securely coupling the first sink handle cuff and the second sink handle cuff via the elongated element such that the first sink handle and the second sink handle are prevented from rotating into an on or hot position. For example in aspects a first locking element of the first sink handle cuff may engage at least a first slot along the elongated element and a second locking element of the second sink handle cuff may engage at least a second slot along the elongated element so as to couple the first and second sink handle cuffs to one another via the elongated element. Coupling the first and second sink handle cuffs to one another prevents the first and second sink handles from rotating into an on or hot position.

Release operation may include pressing a first release tab on a first protruding conduit of the first sink handle cuff thereby disengaging a first locking element from a first slot of the elongated element.

Remove operation may include substantially concurrently withdrawing the first sink handle cuff off of the first sink handle along an elongated element while pressing the first release tab. Alternatively remove operation may include withdrawing the first sink handle cuff off of the first sink handle along an elongated element at any time after activating the first release tab.

An optional release operation may include pressing a second release tab on a second protruding conduit of the second sink handle cuff thereby disengaging a second locking element from a second slot of the elongated element. In this example the second sink handle cuff and the first sink handle cuff may be substantially concurrently withdrawn along the elongated element by substantially concurrently pressing the first and second release tabs and withdrawing the first sink handle cuff in one direction along the elongated element while withdrawing the second sink handle cuff in an opposite direction along the elongated element.

A second removing operation removes a second sink handle cuff from a second sink handle. Removing operation may include withdrawing the second sink handle cuff from the second sink handle while a locking element is still engaged with at least one slot of the elongated element. Alternatively remove operation may include substantially concurrently withdrawing the second sink handle cuff off of the second sink handle along an elongated element while pressing the second release tab.

Mounting operation mounts a circular cover plate around a shower handle and onto a surface behind the shower handle e.g. a wall of a shower or onto a base plate of a shower handle. Mounting operation may include positioning the circular cover plate so that an axis of a radial pathway of the circular cover plate is parallel to an axis of the shower handle when the shower handle is in an off or other desired position. Mounting operation may include fastening the circular cover plate to the shower wall or base plate of the shower handle by using double sided tape. Conversely mounting operation may include fastening the circular cover plate to the shower wall or base plate of the shower handle by inserting screws or other affixing elements into one or more tab members of the circular cover plate so that the circular cover plate is held in place. Further mounting operation may include using both double sided tape and affixing elements concurrently to fasten the circular cover plate to the wall and or the base plate of the shower handle.

Slide operation slides a base of the shower handle cuff into a radial pathway of the circular cover plate. Slide operation may include sliding the shower handle cuff over the shower handle as the base of the show handle cuff slides along the radial pathway. For example the shower handle cuff may be installed by advancing the shower handle cuff towards the shower handle so that a hollow cylindrical body of the shower handle cuff receives the shower handle and a base of the shower handle cuff receives the radial pathway of the circular cover plate.

Engage operation causes a locking element of the base to engage a serrated grip of the radial pathway to secure the shower handle cuff to the circular cover plate. In aspects when the locking element engages the serrated grip of the radial pathway the shower handle cuff is prevented from being withdrawn from the circular cover plate.

Couple operation couples the shower handle cuff to the circular cover plate such that the shower handle is prevented from being actuated to an on or hot position.

Embodiments of the present disclosure for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

The description and illustration of one or more embodiments provided in this application are not intended to limit or restrict the scope of the disclosure as claimed in any way. The embodiments examples and details provided in this application are considered sufficient to convey possession and enable others to make and use the best mode recited by the claims. The claims should not be construed as being limited to any embodiment example or detail provided in this application. Regardless of whether shown and described in combination or separately the various features both structural and methodological are intended to be selectively included or omitted to produce an embodiment with a particular set of features. Having been provided with the description and illustration of the present application one skilled in the art may envision variations modifications and alternate embodiments falling within the spirit of the broader aspects of the general inventive concept embodied in this application that do not depart from the broader scope of the claims.

