---

title: System and method for video communication
abstract: The present invention is a method and system for establishing a video call between two or more persons through two or more computer devices and/or mobile devices. The present invention can be utilized to enable any website to be video call enabled, so that a video call can be initiated from any website. During the call the present invention may recognize words, phrases, key topics or other content of the video call discussion in real time or virtually real time, and disseminate such information to the participants in the call as well as to other followers, friends or other affiliates of persons engaged in the video call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380264&OS=09380264&RS=09380264
owner: 
number: 09380264
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150216
---
The present disclosure relates to the field of video call communication systems. More particularly the present disclosure relates to establishing video call and providing personalized video call identity.

Recent advancements in the information technology sector have made available a variety of types of communication modes that are operable to establish one to one and or many to one and or one to many interactions between users of information technology devices. These communication modes for example can be referred to as voice call video call chatting messaging and the like.

In order to have a personal interaction a user may choose one of the above referenced communication modes and initiate a discussion. In accordance with known prior art in order to initiate a video call a user needs to have an account created with one of the available proprietary communication sources such as Skype Google Hangouts Facebook or other similar web based or mobile applications for communications between users of computers and or other mobile devices.

Typically a website of a company or an organization offering such communication services will a provide contact details that facilitate contact by a visitor to the website with a representative of the company or organization b collect required contact details and c advertise or otherwise provide information about the services or products offered by the company. The contact details collected by the company are generally limited to contact number chat id interactive voice response and the like. Such details are not helpful for the visitor to visually identity the representative with whom the visitor is having an in person interaction.

Other limitations of these proprietary sources is that they cannot be used by a user as a personalized video identity which would enable a user s followers fans or other affiliates to identify the user initiate an instant video call with the user and or join and participate in a video call with the user and potentially other followers fans and or affiliates of the user as well .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 248 446 filed on Jul. 6 2007 discloses a dial URL that when activated in a user s web browser will request that a managing tool determine an available calling route between a user s preferred end point and the end point being addressed in the URL with the required resources and that the managing tool then schedule the resources and initiate the call between end points. This invention is intended to set up the route and resources prior to the initiation of a call and indeed the call will not be initiated until the route and resources are determined. Thus this invention does not disclose a system operable to conduct a video call which one or more parties can join after the call is initiated on the fly.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0178234 filed on Dec. 4 2007 discloses a hosting a network site on a computer network and displaying links to one or more videos on the network site. This application does not disclose the facilitation of real time video communication the application discloses a method of providing access to pre recorded video content.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0259940 filed on Sep. 23 2008 discloses a tool that enables an unsophisticated user who does not have any programming technology knowledge to develop and deploy a video application for use on a mobile device. This application may be operable to accept a video call but this operation is solely for the purpose of receiving instructions to provide particular media to the caller or to determine that the call should be ended. This patent application does not disclose a system operable to initiate a video call in which two or more parties will participate and that can be initiated by one or more parties.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 700 714 filed on Dec. 6 2007 discloses a system operable for video content to be provided as a video stream and for users to select video content from the video stream for viewing. Users in a stream community can interact by chatting by exchanging written text messages while viewing video content. This patent does not disclose a system for video calling with between two or more parties in real time.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 371 180 filed on Jul. 30 2010 discloses an apparatus for creating video collaboration between a customer at a point of inquiry and an expert located off site. This apparatus is operable to allow parties at two locations to be in face to face video contact it does not permit parties at multiple locations to be in face to face video contact simultaneously in real time.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0339159 filed on Dec. 26 2012 discloses a system operable for two users to share data on each user s respective computer environment and to video chat during such sharing of data. The functions of this invention are implemented by a computing device that each of the users must be connected to in order to engage in the video chat. This application does not disclose two or more users engaging in a video call that does not require all users to connect to a single computing device.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0168344 filed on Jan. 31 2014 discloses a tool for capturing video mail and for processing and distributing video mail. In accordance with this invention video mail is recorded if a second video caller whom a first video caller is trying to reach is not available. This invention therefore does not involve real time video calling between a first caller and a second caller it is directed to recording video content of a first caller and making this available to a second caller at a later point in time.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0041055 filed on Aug. 6 2012 discloses a system to control access by a user to an online service. This application requires that all users be classified as malicious or non malicious.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0102358 filed on Nov. 9 2004 discloses a system for a method of managing Internet based communities on the Internet through standard web pages without any requirement for the installation of additional software on either a user s computer or on websites where the system is implemented. The system permits visitors to a registered web page to initiate and participate in anonymous ad hoc chat sessions and for members of Internet based communities to message other members. This prior art does not disclose real time video calling between two or more persons.

Additional patent documents that represent prior art in the field of online communications include the following PCT Application Publication No. WO2014099819 PCT Application Publication No. WO2009146293 filed on May 22 2009 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0166382 filed on Feb. 21 2013 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0179494 filed on Aug. 24 2012 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0220092 filed on Feb. 13 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 8 191 001 issued on May 29 2012 U.S. Pat. No. 8 145 659 issued on Mar. 27 2012 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0288951 filed on May 13 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 7 885 913 issued on Feb. 8 2011 U.S. Pat. No. 7 822 821 issued on Oct. 26 2010 U.S. Pat. No. 8 667 072 issued on Mar. 4 2014 U.S. Pat. No. 8 612 360 issued on Dec. 17 2013 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0174038 filed on Jan. 4 2012 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0013230 filed on Jul. 8 2013 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0178234 filed on Dec. 4 2007 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0118474 filed on Oct. 25 2013 PCT Application Publication No. WO2012096794 filed on Dec. 31 2011 U.S. Pat. No. 8 548 978 issued on Oct. 1 2013 U.S. Pat. No. 8 682 809 issued on Mar. 25 2014 U.S. Pat. No. 8 745 647 issued on Jun. 3 2014 U.S. Pat. No. 8 671 089 issued on Mar. 11 2014 PCT Application Publication No. WO2014089686 filed on Jun. 12 2013 U.S. Pat. No. 8 558 863 issued on Oct. 15 2013 U.S. Pat. No. 6 909 708 issued on Jun. 21 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 8 181 218 issued on May 15 2012 PCT Application Publication No. WO2001067760 filed on Mar. 9 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 7 835 509 issued on Nov. 16 2010 U.S. Pat. No. 6 898 620 issued on May 24 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 5 758 079 issued on May 26 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 7 185 054 issued on Feb. 27 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 433 921 issued on Oct. 7 2008 U.S. Pat. No. 8 730 296 issued on May 20 2014 European Patent Application Publication No. EP2460127 filed on Jul. 27 2010 Canadian Patent No. 2 157 895 issued on May 18 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 8 063 929 issued on Nov. 22 2011 U.S. Pat. No. 6 789 105 issued on Sep. 7 2004 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0066355 filed on Sep. 14 2011 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 838 696 on Sep. 16 2014 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0306317 filed on May 27 2009 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 819 132 on Aug. 26 2014 Canadian Patent No. 2 296 182 issued on Dec. 19 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 665 395 issued on Dec. 16 2003 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0127983 filed on Jan. 29 2013 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0120270 filed on Nov. 15 2010 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0039433 filed on Oct. 15 2012 U.S. Pat. No. 8 514 842 issued on Aug. 20 2013 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0080460 filed on Feb. 24 2010.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a video call system operable from a webpage comprising a webpage a video call enabling code generating unit operable receive information inputted into the webpage and to generate a video call enabling code utilize said inputted information and link said video call enabling code to the webpage a video call enabling option operable from the webpage that is operable to run the video call enabling code upon selection of the video call enabling option and a video call system operable generate a video call between the user of the webpage and one or more other participants.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system operable from a webpage wherein the inputted information incorporates the domain name address of the webpage.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system operable from a webpage wherein the webpage is connected to the Internet and is operable to send messages to one or more persons via the Internet prior to and during the video call.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system operable from a webpage wherein the video call system is operable to join one or more additional participants to the video call during the video call.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to a video call method comprising the steps of receiving a request for a video call enabling code for a respective website from a website user generating the video call enabling code comprising a video call enabling key for the respective website and copying the video call enabling code in the respective website for generating a video call initiating option on the respective website and whereby a selection of video call initiating option on the respective website by a visitor enables initiating a video call.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call method further comprising a step of enabling the visitor to transmit one or invitations to one or more other users to join the video call.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call method further comprising a step of displaying the video call initiating option as a sidebar on the respective website. further comprising a step enabling the visitor to complete a registration process on selecting the video call initiating option on the respective website.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call method further comprising a step of enabling the visitor to create a personalized profile page in response to completing the registration process.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call method wherein the website user is enabled to delete one or more invitees from the video conference during the continuation of video conference.

In still another aspect the present disclosure relates to a video call system comprising one or more devices connected to a network a user registration unit operable operable to receiving information inputted by a user of the one or more devices an application programming interface with socket operable to receiving a video call request inputted by a user of one or the more devices a video call session establishing and creating a unit connected to the application programming interface with socket and operable to create and establish a video call session and a data repository unit operable to store data and whereby a video call can be created and established between two or more users of the one or more devices.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system wherein a video call recording unit is operable to record the video call.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system wherein a initiating user who initiates the video call operates the system to limit the participation of at least one of the one or more users engaged in the video call.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system wherein a video call recording unit is operable to record the video call as a video call file and the video call recording unit is connected to the data repository unit and the video call file is storable in the data repository unit.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system wherein an identify verification unit is operable to utilize registration information inputted by a user to verify the identity of said user.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system wherein a video profile page managing unit is operable to create a profile page for the one or more users.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system wherein a video call can be initiated from the profile page.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to the video call system wherein the video call session establishing and creating unit is operable to create and establish a video call as a private call or a public call.

In addition the present disclosure relates to embodiments of the present disclosure directed towards system for establishing video call and providing personalized video call identity and methods employed therefor.

In addition the present disclosure relates to exemplary objective of the present disclosure that is to provide a video call enabling option on any website whereby a visitor to the website is enabled to initiate a video call.

In addition the present disclosure relates to another exemplary objective of the present disclosure that is to provide a personalized video account for a user and a personalized video profile page whereby the user is identifiable by a video call identifier so that follower fans and or other affiliates or associates of the user can initiate a call with the user join a call with the user and or participate in a call with the user.

In addition the present disclosure relates to another exemplary objective of the present disclosure that is to enable a user to record and share a video call in which the user is engaged.

In addition the present disclosure relates to a method that includes receiving a request for a video call enabling code for a respective website from a website user generating the video call enabling code comprising a video call enabling key for the respective website and copying the video call enabling code in the respective website for generating a video call initiating option on the respective website whereby a selection of video call initiating option on the respective website by a visitor enables initiating a video call.

In addition the present disclosure relates to a method that includes receiving request of a user for creating a personalized video profile page whereby the user enabled to provide registration credentials to create a personalized video account associated with the personalized video profile page identifiable by a video call identifier.

In addition the present disclosure relates to a system comprising one or more units is provided. The one or more units are configured to perform the functions and operations associated with the above disclosed methods.

In this respect before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

In the drawings embodiments of the invention are illustrated by way of example. It is to be expressly understood that the description and drawings are only for the purpose of illustration and as an aid to understanding and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention.

The present invention is a method and system for establishing a video call between two or more persons through two or more computer devices and or mobile devices. The present invention can be utilized to enable any website to be video call enabled so that a video call can be initiated from any website. During the call the present invention may recognize words phrases key topics or other content of the video call discussion in real time or virtually real time and disseminate such information to the participants in the call as well as to other followers friends or other affiliates of persons engaged in the video call.

The use of including comprising or having and variations thereof herein is utilized to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items. The terms a and an herein do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item. The use of video call references all forms of video communications generally and can include audio visual drawing typing and other types of content.

Generally herein the term user used in reference to participation in a video call is used to indicate the person who initiates the video call whereas the term participant is used to indicate a person who participates in a video call. A user may also be a participant to the video call as a user participates in a video call. However the user who initiates the video call may have capabilities that are not achievable by all participants to a video call.

The video call of the present invention occurs in realtime or virtually real time. A video call of the present invention can be joined while in progress by additional participants. The use who initiates the video call may control aspects of the participation of the participants engaged in the call. The present invention is operable to provide personalized video call identity and this identity can be utilized by follower friends or other affiliates to identify a person who is initiating or engaging in a video call.

Participants of the video call can receive a copy of the video call upon request following the termination of the video call. In some embodiments of the present invention a copy of the video call will not be saved or stored unless any participant requests that a copy of the video call be sent to such participant after the call terminates. In this manner the privacy of the video call may be protected as no copy of the video call will be stored on any server or other storage location of the video call system that may be accessed by any third party after the call has terminated unless a participant of the call requests that a copy be sent directly to that participant.

The present invention is operable to enable a video call to be initiated from any website. The present invention may enable any website so that a video call can be initiated from such website by embedding or otherwise integrating a video call link or other connection to the system of the present invention. In such an embodiment of the present invention a video call option such as a button or sidebar is accessible from the website so that a user can initiate a video call from the website. For example a company or other organization may utilize the present invention to initiate a video call from its website so that a customer can participate in a video call with one or more members of the organization s staff. A skilled reader will recognize that there are a variety of advantages to having a video call option available from a website. It is the system of the present invention that will operate the video call and in this manner the organization does not require the creation of its own video call system into its website nor does it require a customer to leave its website to initiate a video call which can be disruptive to the flow of a customer s activities. The present invention operates so that a video call can be initiated directly from any website.

To cause any website to be video call enabled a request for a video call enabling code for a respective website will be sent to the system by a website user. Once the request is received the steps to enable a website for video calls to be initiated from that website include generating the video call enabling code comprising a video call enabling key for the respective website and copying the video call enabling code in the respective website for generating a video call initiating option on the respective website whereby a selection of video call initiating option on the respective website by a visitor enables initiating a video call. As discussed herein there are other possible embodiments of the present invention and the steps for enabling a website for the initiation of video calls from that website may vary in these embodiments.

As another example a video call can be initiated from a website that is created for the purpose of running the system of the present invention. A participant to such a website can login to the website and initiate a video call that will be operated by the system of the present invention. From such a website the participant can choose to initiate the video call from any page of the website including a personalized profile page. A personalized profile page is a webpage that provides details relating to a specific participant including a list of the participant s followers a list of recent video calls in which the participant has participated a list of favorite video calls and other personalized information pertaining to the participant.

A participant who initiates a video call whether from a remote website or a website dedicated to running the system of the present invention may be provided by the system with tools to assist with a discussion between participants in a video call. For example it may be possible for a whiteboard to be provided to the participants in a video call. In such an embodiment of the present invention the whiteboard may be utilized by the user who initiated the video call all participants in the video call or select participants in the video call. The whiteboard may be utilized to be written upon or drawn upon and to thereby display information that supports or enhances the discussion that is engaged in by the participants to the video call. The content of the whiteboard may be captured and copied during and or upon termination of the video call at the request of a participant of the video call.

A skilled reader will recognize that other tools may be provided by the system of the present invention to participants in video calls for the purpose of enhancing or supporting the video call and the discussion of the participants during the video call. For example one or more of the following tools may be available for use during a video call by one or more participants of a video call a white board screen sharing document presentations such as in a power point or other presentation format file sharing video sharing and instant messaging.

The present invention may also be provided in a software application app form that is operable from a mobile device. An app version of the present invention will provide all of the functions and features described herein.

The present invention differs from and offers benefits over prior art systems and methods for video call communication. Prior art for video communication generally requires a user to either login to a video provider s website or download the video call provider s software app onto the user s mobile device. Once the user is signed up the user can initiate a video call while signed onto the video call provider s website or app. Thus prior art systems and methods require for a video call to be initiated from and ultimately through the video call provider s website or app. The present invention is operable so that any website can be enabled to allow for a video call to be initiated from any website not only directly through the website or app of the video call system provider.

The present invention offers a benefit over the prior art in that a user can initiate a video call from a personalized webpage of that user. In this manner the user may be readily identifiable by other participants in the video call and the user may have information pertaining to video call use and participation displayed to the participant during a video call. A skilled reader will recognize that this aspect of the present invention can be beneficial in several situations.

Once a video call is initiated the user who initiated the call can push out information about the participation of the user in the call to others including people not engaged in the video call. For example the user can push out information that the user is engaged in a video call by email text tweet page or any other electronic communication. This activity of pushing information can be operated from a personalized profile page or from any other webpage from which the participant is participating in the video call. Furthermore the user who initiated the video call can push information and any other participant in the video call can also push information. Prior art systems generally do not allow a user who initiated a call from a video call provider s website or app or any other participant engaged in the call to easily push out information about the call to other persons during the call through the video call system. Thus this aspect of the present invention offers a benefit over the prior art. For example information about the user s participation in the video call may be pushed out to friends followers such as Twitter followers Internet group members affiliates or other persons affiliated with the user participant. The push out of information about the video call may be automatically sent to one or more pre designated persons or groups of people or to one or more persons or groups of people selected by the user prior to or during the call.

The information that is pushed out to such persons may include details about the topic being discussed during the call. Embodiments of the present invention may be operable to recognize key words phrases or other content of the video call. This recognition tool may be utilized to generate information about the content of the call. Thus the information pushed out from the user may indicate the topic or other content of the call which may be of interest to persons to whom information about the call is pushed out. Moreover the information about the topic or content of the call may be pushed out in real time or virtually real time so that a potential participant or other person receiving such information will be aware of the current topic or content of the discussion of the video call. In some embodiments of the present invention the information that is pushed out will be generated by the system and will be pushed out at intervals automatically by the system during a call. The use of this option may be controlled by a user participant.

The information that is pushed out to any person or group or people may further include an invitation to join the call. Joining the call may involve either full participation in the call or limited participation in the call. For example full participation in the call may facilitate the participant joining the call to engage fully in the audio and visual aspects of the call. Whereas limited participation in the call may involve a participant joining the call and be limited to only engaging in video or audio participation in the call. For example a participant with limited participation abilities may only be able to view and hear the call but cannot be heard audibly and or viewed by others on the call. A skilled reader will recognize that there are many options whereby a participant can have limited participation on a call. Any limits on participation may indicated when a participant is invited to join the call or can be imposed on a participant during a call. All limitations on the participation of a participant to the video call are set by the user who initiated the video call either prior to the video call or during the video call.

For example a user who initiates a video call can control what one or more of the participants can do during a video call. A user can control whether a participant has access to an audio only feed or a video and audio feed. A user can also control whether a participant can view a whiteboard as well as whether a participant can write or draw on the whiteboard. A user can control whether a participant has an option to record a video call in which the participant is involved. A user can further control whether a participant can invite anyone else to join the video call. However if a user permits a participant to invite one or more other persons to join the video call then the participant is granted the right to set limitations on the participation of such persons on the video call in the same manner as the user has control over the participation of the participant in the video call.

In embodiments of the present invention the voice of a participant to a video call or other sound components during a call may be recorded through a microphone or other recording device of the device that a participant is utilizing to participate in a video call or any external recording device linked thereto. It is also possible that audio input to the video call may be provided from any audio file available on the device that a participant is using to engage in the video call or from any text component that is translated to voice output. The video caller may further be viewable through the operation of a web camera of the device that the participant is utilizing to participate in the video call or any external camera linked thereto.

To exemplify still another benefit it is notable that the prior art solely permits persons who are chosen by the user who initiates the call to participate in a video call. The present invention may allow participation in the call by persons who are not explicitly invited by a participant in the video call to participate in the call.

The user may choose whether a video call initiated by the user will be a private or open call. If the call is to be a private call the user will personally invite participants to join the call. If the call is an open call then everyone who is following the user will have the option to join the call as will persons who the user invites to join the call. The user s followers and invitees will have the option to join the call at the start of the call or at any point during the call. Persons who are followers or invitees of other participants engaged in the video call other than the user may also join the call in the same manner as the user s followers and invitees. Moreover followers of the participants to the call may also join the call without any direct invitation. Other persons who are not followers of the user or other participants including guests who are not signed up with the video call provider may also join an open video call.

As an example of an open video call a government official may initiate an open call to provide information to constituents. All of the official s followers as well as other participants including guests may join the call. The official may set the participation of the participants to be listen watch only so that the participants cannot be heard audibly on the call themselves but can only watch and listen to the official.

As an example of a private video call a user can set up a call to discuss a particular topic such as a topic from the headlines trends found in the user s news feeds and the participants to the call may be limited to only participants who are directly invited by the user. Another example of a private call may be a video call that involves participants who are all members of an organization and the video call may be for the purpose of having a meeting involving those specific persons from the organization. It is possible that the meeting may require discussion and presentations that are not possible through a conference call but can be shown through a video call. However the participants may be required to be a specific select group of people and therefore non invitees will not be able to join the private video call.

Prior art video call providers generally store a copy of the video call after the call is terminated. An embodiment of the present invention can be set so that a copy of the video call is not saved unless a participant requests that a copy be sent to that participant. This creates several benefits over the prior art. For example there is no data footprint created by the video call unless a copy of the video call is requested by a participant. As another example as any copy of the video call may be sent directly to a participant of the call in an embodiment of the present invention it will be the participant s responsibility to store the copy of the video call securely the system will not store a copy of the video call once the copy is sent to the participant s who requested a copy.

In an embodiment of the present invention the copy of the video call may be sent directly to the external storage that is indicated by the participant who requests a copy of the video call. The copy of the video call is therefore not sent via email or any other communication that will be stored for a period of time and may be insecure and that may require an additional copy of the video call to be made from the copy embedded in the communication in order for the video call to be stored by the participant recipient. Instead the present invention is operable so that the copy of the video call is transferred directly to the electronic storage indicated by the participant.

Another benefit of the present invention over the prior art is that the prior art systems and methods for video communication require plug ins to function whereas the present invention does not require any plug in to function and can therefore be operated from any website.

Herein there are some examples of embodiments of the present invention. A skilled reader will recognize that the present invention has a variety of possible embodiments as well as a variety of possible applications to private and business environments and users. The examples herein are provided merely as a means of describing aspects of the present invention.

As discussed herein an embodiment of the present invention is operable to enable a video call to be engaged in from any website including any third party website. Such a website will have an option accessible from the website whereby a video call scribe can be instructed to run. A video call enabling code generation process of an embodiment of the present invention may involve the video call enabling code generating unit generating a video call script. The video call script is run when the video call initiating option is selected by a user or visitor to a website or profile having the video call initiating option embedded therein or otherwise accessible therefrom. The video call initiating option may be displayed as a side bar or in another format on the website.

The user may be directed towards a script generation page which functions to generate video call enabling code as shown in . The script generation page may be accessible from a webpage in the video call provider s site. A user can input information into the script generation page such as into a domain name field whereby a domain name of the website where the video call initiating option is to be embedded or otherwise made available can be entered by the user. The domain name is recognized by the system as a uniform resource locator for the website where the video call initiating option is to be embedded or otherwise made available. The script generation page also provides a side bar position field whereby a user can input the position where the video call initiating option will be embedded or otherwise made available upon the indicated webpage.

The user may also input into the video call enabling code generation page any text to appear on the web site with near or in the video call initiating option in the bar field . Further the website user may be enabled to select a generate code button that will cause the video call enabling code to generate and be displayed to the user in a display block . The generated video call enabling code will dictate the format of the display of the video call initiating option upon the website. For example the video call initiating option may be displayed as a sidebar on the webpage as a button or in any other format.

When the generated video call enabling code is generated a video call enabling key may also be generated that is associated with the generated video call enabling code. The video call enabling key may be utilized by the system to restrict the usage of the generated video call enabling code to the web site wherein the generated video call enabling code is to be embedded or otherwise accessible. For example should the generated video call enabling code be generated for use with Website A the video call enabling key will recognize that the generated video call enabling code is generated for use with website A. Therefore should the generated video call enabling code for Website A be embedded or otherwise be accessible from another website such as Website B the video call enabling key will recognize that the generated video call enabling code for Website A is being accessed from a website that is not Website A and the video call enabling key will restrict use of the generated video call enabling code for Website A from a website that is not Website A.

As the video call enabling code is generated to incorporate the website information e.g. domain name of the authorized website from which the video call system is to be enabled to ru should the generated code be deployed from another website the system would recognize when the code is run that the site information incorporated in the video call enabling code does not correspond with the website from which the code is being run. The result of this recognition will be that the code cannot be run to initiate a video call from the website that does not correspond with the website information incorporated in the code. The use of video call enabling code is restricted to the website that is identified in the code.

When a video call is initiated from a third party website the user who is selecting the option available to initiate a video call does not necessarily have to sign in or be invited to engage in a video call. The operator of the third party website may indicate how it would like the system to run when it is run from that website. For example if the option to initiate a video call is offered from a company website the company may want all video calls initiated from its site by users to cause the user to connect in a video call with employees of the company. As another example a video call that is initiated from an option to initiate a video call from a government website may allow a user to join a video call that is already in session that is originally initiated by a government official. As discussed herein the participation of the participant joining the call may be limited in some instances. A skilled reader will recognize the variety of options for how the system may run when it is engaged from a video call enabling code accessible from a third party website.

Once a user has submitted a request for a video call to the system a video call enabling code generating unit may be utilized in a third party website to initiate and sustain a video call. The video call enabling code generating unit generates a video call enabling option that may be embedded in or otherwise operable from a website to initiate a video call. Such website where the video call enabling option is embedded or operable may be indicated by a user of a website during the request stage.

In some embodiments of the present invention a visitor to a website may utilize a video call enabling option that is already available on said website to initiate a video call. For example the video call initiating option may be displayed as a sidebar on the respective website. The visitor to the website may be prompted to submit the request through the user request unit in the manner discussed herein upon selecting the video call enabling option to initiate a video call. To make a video call enabling option accessible within a website a prior user must have requested such accessibility in a manner described herein.

As an example a website that offers a service may have a video call enabling option embedded in the website so that if a visitor to the website is interested in communicating with a representative of the organization providing services through the website such visitor can select the video call enabling option in the website to discuss the services with the representative or multiple representatives may participate in the video call . The representative s and visitor to website may discuss topics such as the details of the services and pricing of the services during the video call. The visitor will initiate the video call by selecting the video call enabling option which may be displayed in the website in may forms for example such as a sidebar on the respective website.

In an embodiment of the present invention in response to a visitor initiating the video call the system may determine the video call request details of the visitor and establish a video call by routing the call to the available representative. The details of the visitor may include the visitor s email address the visitor s name and the visitor s phone number. The details of the visitor may be inputted by the visitor or the system may obtain details relating to the visitor from other sources such as Facebook Twitter or any other source where details relating to the visitor are made available.

The system may further be operable so that the visitor can transmit invitations to join the video call to other persons who may be friends of the visitor followers of the visitor other visitors to the website or other persons with whom the user can communicate electronically. Similarly the representative may also transmit invitations to other representatives to participate in the video call.

As shown in in one embodiment of the present invention that is a website visitor initiated web call system a visitor accesses a website that has a video call initiating option embedded or otherwise accessible from said website. By selecting the video call initiating option the user can initiate a video call with one or more other persons. The visitor may choose the people who will be allowed to participate in the call or the one or more persons with whom the call will be initiated may be selected by the system in accordance with system parameters. The parameters may be set in accordance with the type of website. For example a company website whereby a visitor can obtain information regarding a product or service may cause the call to be initiated with one or more company representatives. As another example the call may be set to involve members of a particular group such as persons with a common interest that have joined a common group. A skilled reader will recognize the variety of types of groups and parameters that the system may utilize to initiate a call between a visitor and one or more other persons.

During the video call the visitor may invite other persons to join the call and to participate in the call either fully or with some limitations. The visitor sends such invitations via the Internet or some other network connection between the website and other persons whose contact information is known to the visitor. For example the visitor may invite one or more of the visitor s follower s one or more of the visitor s friends other members of a team of representatives related to the website or one or more other people whose contact information is known to the visitor to join the video call.

Should one of the people engaged in the video call be a representative related to website such representative may also invite one or more members of the representative team e.g. agents sales support or other members of the representative team to participate in the video call. The invitation from the representative engaged in the video call to one or more other representatives will be directed from the video call through the Internet connection to one or more members of the representative team.

An option for utilizing a video call enabling option to initiate a video call is provided to a visitor to a website is shown in that utilizes the system elements shown in . A visitor may access the website of a person or an organization that has a voice call enabling option embedded therein or accessible therefrom. Specifically a video call may be initiated by the visitor from such a website for the purpose of the visitor speaking with either the person whose website the visitor has accessed or a representative of the organization whose website the visitor has accessed for the purpose of discussing a topic related to the website content or issues pertaining to the person or organization whose website the visitor is visiting. An example of a visitor visiting the website of a particular company and requesting a video call by utilizing the video call enabling option embedded in such website or available via such website is shown in . In this embodiment of the present invention a company video call method may be initiated. In some cases a visitor may need to access a company website and login to the company website in order to visit the company s website. The login may occur through a visitors individual companies login tool on the system. Once logged in or otherwise having gained access to the company s website the visitor may select the video call enabling option from the company s website and thereby request a video call.

Upon receipt of such a request by the visitor the system may initiate an application program interface call and details relating to the visitor for example such as details provided by the visitor during any login process may be provided to any company representative to be a participant in the call . If data pertaining to the visitor has been stored previously by the system the application programming interface may be utilized. This application programming interface may retrieve such visitor data to display in a profile page . The visitor data may be retrieved from the data repository unit or from any other storage area linked to the system where such visitor data is stored.

In an embodiment of the present invention a visitor page may be created for each visitor either automatically or upon request of the visitor. The visitor page is similar to the personalized profile pages discussed herein. The visitor page may incorporate information relating to the visitor and the visitor may select to include information in the page such as followers and friends favourite video call sessions and other information. Other participants in a video call that the visitor engages in may be able to view at least some of the information available on a visitor page. In some embodiments of the present invention participants in a video call who are limited to viewing and hearing the video call may not be able to view the visitors page.

One or more representatives may be participants in the video call with the visitor. One or more socket for sessions may be allocated for a video session. The video call session may be routed through such sockets to engage the participation of one or more specific company representatives . The system may incorporate a personalized video profile page or a visitor page. The video call session may further be directed to the personalized video profile page or a visitor page.

In embodiments of the present invention not all the components shown in may be required to practice the invention and in some embodiments variations in the arrangement and type of the components may be made in order to practice the invention. The components of the system of embodiments of the present invention may be software components hardware components or a combination of software and hardware components. The system of embodiments of the present invention may be operated in a web based environment mobile based environment or a combination of a web based and mobile environment.

As shown in the present invention may be operable from a computer or a mobile device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a smart phone a cellular phone a tablet or any other computer or mobile device. Moreover participants in a video call may each engage in the call by way of a computer or a mobile device and collectively the participants may be engaged in the call via a variety of type of computers and or mobile devices. Each computer and or mobile device utilized to engage in a video call must be connected whether through a wired means or wirelessly to a network such as an intranet the Internet or any other network.

The network is connected or other wise linked whether via a wired means or wirelessly to a user registration unit . The user request unit may be utilized by a user to request a video call. The user may be a website user a visitor of a website or a user interested in creating a personalized video account. Each such user may undergo a request process defined in accordance with the nature of such user. For example a website user may provide a request to the system from the computer or mobile device being used by the user via the network connection and thereby submit a request for a video call enabling code to be used in a respective website. If the request is generated from a website a video call will be requested through a video call sidebar or other option which is operable for the user to connect with the system and thereby generate a video call from the website as described herein. A request may also be generated from a website hosted by the system that is directly connected to the system. For example personalized websites of registered users of the system may be available from such a website.

The visitor of a respective website may request that the system initiate a video call from the respective website. The means whereby such a request is generated and submitted to the system will be dependent upon whether the website is directly connected to the system or whether the connection to the system is through an element embedded in the website such as a video call sidebar tool.

The system is also operable for individual users to create a personalized video call accounts associated with a personalized video profile page for establishing video calls. The personalized video profile page will be set up within the boundaries of a video call provider s environment e.g. a website an app etc. . Such a user will have a personalized video call account with in the video call provider s environment which will be set up when the user signs up with the video call provider. The video call provider will store the information pertaining to the user s personalized video call account and the personalized video profile page. The video call provider may provide tools in the video call provider s environment that can be utilized by the user to create the personalized video profile page.

When a user initiates a private call an invitation will be sent via email social media messages or some other messaging means to the invited participants selected by the user. The message will contain a URL link. Once the invited participant clicks or otherwise activates the URL link the user will be connected to the videocall room which may be a webpage an intranet page an app or some other environment from which a video call can be accessed. The invitation may include a personalized message from the user to inform the invited participant of the identify of the user who is initiating the call and any other information that the user wishes to provide to the invited participant. In some embodiments of the present invention the invitation may be automatically generated without input from the user. The URLs included in the invitations may be randomly generated.

A user can set another participant to be linked to the user s account as a friend of the user. The system will store the information pertaining to contacting the friend in the user s account information. One or more friends can be linked to a user s account. A video call with the linked friend can be initiated using the information stored pertaining to contacting that friend. The user can leave a message for the friend if the friend doesn t answer the call.

In the instance that a participant to a video call invites a person who is not signed up with the video call provider that the user is signed up with a non member the participant must input information for contacting the person into the system. This information will not necessarily be stored in the system and in some embodiments of the present invention the contact information for the non member will need to be entered by the participant each time that non member is to be included in a video call. The information to be entered may include information for example such as the person s name email address and phone number social media contact information or other information required to contact that person.

In the circumstance that a the video call is initiated from a third party website a user may not be required to provide any information in order to be able to either initiate a video call or join a video call session as a participant. For example a company that has embedded the video call generating code API so that a video call can be initiated from the company s website or service environment may not require a user to provide any information to initiate a video call with one or more company representatives.

As shown in the system of the present invention may also include a user identity verification unit configured to verify the identity details of the user requesting the video call. The identity details of the user here may be referred as electronic mail email mobile number or other identifying information that is provided by the user when the user signs up with the video call provider. The user identity verification unit may generate a tag which is included in the invitation email sent to a participant who is invited to participate in a video call by a user and the invitation may further contain information about the user and the purpose of the call. The user identity verification unit may be operable to use any of the information that is provided by a user at sign up and that is stored thereafter to obtain full details regarding the user. For example the username of the user may be utilized to obtain the email address of the user. The user identity verification unit may be operable to determine whether the user has previously submitted a request for a video call to the system.

In embodiments of the present invention a user can initiate a video call through any website or app and a participant can join a video call session through any website or app. Both users and participants may be able to invite more people to join a video call either before a video call starts or during a video call. To invite another person to join a video call an invitation will be sent to the person to join the sender in the sender s video call room. This invitation can be sent through any web browser or mobile application.

Embodiments of the present invention are operable to create personalized profile pages for users and participants of the system who have registered with the system members . In order for a personalized profile page to be created for a member the member must indicate that a personalized profile page is to be created or the system must be set up to automatically create a personalized profile page for all members.

A member who has a personalized profile page can incorporate specific information that will be displayed on the page such as a friends list. The friends list may be a list of other members of the system and or non members with whom the member is likely to want to engage in a video call. The personalized profile page may also provide access to information relating to the greater videocall community of members of the system and may provide a source of information to follow topics friends celebrities professionals etc. relating to other members of the system. For example this information may indicate when other members are engaged in open public video calls and the topic being discussed in real time or virtual real time during such video calls. A member who views such information on his or her personalized profile page may join the public video call if the member has an interest in participating in the video call based on the other participants of the call or the topics being discussed. Posts by participants in video calls may also be viewable on a personalized profile page. Content streamed from a newsfeed such as is gathered from third party sites may also be viewable on a personalized profile page. A skilled reader will recognize the variety of possible content available on a personalized profile page. A member may be provided with means of choosing the content to appear on his or her page as well as a means to organize the content appearing on the page.

As shown in the system of the present invention may include a video profile page managing unit . A user can utilize the video profile managing unit to create a video profile page of the user. The profile page will be generated to incorporate and display details provided by the user about the user such as for example the user s name the name of the organization to which the user is related e.g. an employee partner owner or otherwise related to a communication address e.g. an email address a mobile number a text number or other communication address . A skilled reader will recognize that other information relating to the user may be provided by the user for the purpose of creating a video profile page.

In some embodiments of the present invention a personalized profile page is automatically generated from each member of the system. It is automatically set up when a member first signs in to start a call. As an example of a functions operable from the personalized profile page a member can choose whether to record a call which can be added to the member s library of videos a member can choose if the member wants the member s library of video calls or individual video calls to be accessible by everyone linked to the member s profile page for example such as friends and followers of the member. A member may also choose to store whiteboards download documents and save them record live videos and other options available from the personalized profile page.

In one embodiment of the present invention the collection of information for the video profile page may include an optional method used to gather customized information relating to the member. This method will gather information from the member for example such as username to be utilized by the member name of the member and email address belonging to the member. The system will integrate this gathered information into a customized profile page that displays information that will be viewable by participants in a video call such as the member s name email address and the profile can be customized to display other information as well. For example such information may include any videos documents whiteboards and or presentations that have been saved by a member and marked by the member as either private or public. Other examples of information that may be displayed include a list of the member s followers and or a list of the people who the member is following. The list of people who the member is following may be generated at least in part from information gathered from social media sites such as Facebook Twitter etc. The information may further include a list of video groups the member is part of and people with whom the member frequently engages in video calls. A skilled reader will recognize the wide variety of information that may be available on a member s personalized profile page.

In an embodiment of the present invention only the creator of the personalized profile page or if the personalized profile page is automatically generated by the system then the member for whom the personalized profile page is generated can initiate a video call from the personalized profile page.

In an embodiment of the present invention portions of the personalized profile page of participants in a video call may appear to the other participants in the call. The information displayed to other participants may be information that makes it is easy for the other participants to identify a participant to the call. For example the information from the personalized profile page that may be viewable by other participants to a video call may include the participant s name any affiliation to an organization whether the participant is the user who initiated the call any affiliation with any social media group or other information pertaining to the participant.

A method of creating a personalized profile page when a user logs in to the system that is available through a video call provider s website or app is shown in and the system elements utilized for such method are shown in . A user must create a personalized profile page before initiating a video call from such a page.

The user must login to the system and register with the system. The user registration unit receives the registration information. For example during registration the user may be prompted to input the email address of the user and the mobile device contact number of the user and thereby register with the system . On receiving the email address and mobile device contact number the identity verification unit transmits generates a verification link and a verification code. The verification link is sent by the system to the email address and verification code is sent to the mobile device contact number . The user may acknowledge the received verifications and upon receipt of such acknowledgement the system may cause the video profile page managing unit to create a personalized video profile page for the user. An identity verification code may further be generated by the system .

In an embodiment of the present invention the user is required to verify his or her email address by clicking on a link provided or if a user logs in through Facebook or Twitter clicking on the link to verify the user s email address may not be required.

In an embodiment of the present invention a personalized profile page may be automatically generated for a user upon login and registration. In other embodiments of the present invention a user may choose to have a personalized profile page generated by the system during the registration process. Followers of a user may view the user s profile page. As discussed herein a variety of information may be available on a personalized profile page including the user s favourite public rooms and the user s scheduled public calls.

The email address and mobile device contact number provided by the user during the request process may be transferred to a storage area and stored in the storage area that is linked to the system for example such as in the data repository unit .

To initiate a video call a video call request must be submitted by a user to the system. Upon receipt of the video call request the system will configure and establish a video call session through the operation of a video call session establishing and creating unit in accordance with the video call request. The video call session may be routed by an application program interface with socket through a video call socket server . The video call socket server may be configured to trace a browser session through the application program interface API with socket.

As shown in the system may also incorporate a data repository unit which may be configured to store data. Such data may be stored in an organized collection of data or in any other order. The data may incorporate information provided by any user information collected by the system relating to any user e.g. user activities information and other user data any recorded video calls etc. Recorded video calls stored in the data repository unit may include recorded video calls that a participant has requested be sent to the participant and upon such recorded video call being sent to a user the copy in the repository unit will be deleted. Alternatively if a recorded video call is required to be saved and stored over a period of time such recorded video call may be stored in the repository unit over a period of time.

The video call may be captured by a video call recording unit which may be configured to record the video call from when the call is initiated until the call terminates. The video call may be captured in a variety of formats. The video call recording unit is operable to record a video call if any of the following occur a participant requests that a copy of the video call be captured prior to the initiation of a call the video call is flagged by the system in accordance with system parameters to be recorded or the system is pre set to record all video calls.

In an embodiment of the present invention the people who are able to record a video call are controlled by the user who initiates the video call. For example the user who initiates the video call may choose to record the video call. The user who initiates the video call may also permit other participants engaged in the call to record the call. For example the user may permit all participants engaged in a video call to record the video call or the user may permit only one or more of the participants engaged in a video call to record the video call.

In an embodiment of the present invention that is pre set to record all video calls the video call may be only be stored after the call terminates if the video call is flagged by the system in accordance with system parameters to be recorded. The system parameters may be set to record video calls based on a variety of parameters such as video calls that are initiated by a particular user initiated by a user from a particular organization via a particular personalized user profile via a particular website or that are of a particular nature for which a parameter is set.

If video call is being recorded and a participant indicates prior to the call or during the call that they would like to receive a copy of the video call it is possible that the recording of the video call may be deleted from the repository unit or any other storage area where the recorded video call is stored by the system after a copy of the recorded video call is sent to the participant or participants if multiple participants request a copy of the video call .

It is also possible for a copy of the recorded video call to be sent to a person who was not a participant of the video call in some instances for example such as if a person invited to a video call is unable to participate or if an organization requires that a copy of all video calls participated in by members of their organization be sent to the organization. A skilled reader will recognize that there are many other reasons why a video call may be recorded and a copy of that recording provided to a person who was not a participant of the video call.

In some embodiments of the present invention a recorded video call that is stored in the data repository unit or other storage of the system may be accessible to some persons. The persons who will be granted access to the recorded video call may be set by the system or may be set by the user who initiated a particular video call that has been recorded. Additionally access to recorded video calls may be limited for private video calls so that the recorded video call can be accessed by one or more of the following only the user who initiated the video call all the participants to a video call or persons authorized by the user or one or more of the participants to the video call.

A skilled reader will recognize that any communication between the visitor followers friends and or the representative team may be established over the Internet or another communication network. A skilled reader will also recognize that the website may be accessible through the Internet or any other communication network including through an intranet.

The system may be operable so that visitor or other user initiating a video call can initiate the call in a public mode or open mode or a private mode. If a video call is initiated in a public mode the system may be configured to allow for a wide range of persons to join and participate either fully or in a limited manner in the video call. For example in the public mode followers friends other affiliates of the visitor and other groups of persons whose contact information is known to the visitor may join the video call. It is possible in some embodiments of the present invention that persons whose contact information is not known to the visitor who initiates the call including followers and or friends of other participants in the call or persons who view the video call through a website and who are otherwise unrelated to participants in the call may join the video call. A skilled reader will recognize that one or more parameters may be set to indicate the scope of the participants in a call.

In one embodiment of the present invention the user initiating the video call may set such parameters before the call is initiated. In such an embodiment there is no default option. The user chooses whether the call is an open or private call.

All participants in a call will require access to a video call participation option which may be provided via an electronic communication directed to a person such as an email text tweet or other electronic communication or as may be available from a website or other page available through a network.

A public mode call may be set to be recorded and may be shared with other persons after the call either by invite or through making the video generally available to the public. A skilled reader will recognize that access to a recorded video call may be provided directly from a participant having stored a copy of the video call through the dissemination of copies of the video call to other persons by either the system or call participants having a copy of the video call in their possession or through a storage area linked to the system and facilitation of open or limited access to such stored video call. A skilled reader will further recognize that access to either a stored video call or copies of a video call may be limited or full access and that such access parameters may be set by the system or the call participant s depending on the mode of access or dissemination of the video call after the call is terminated.

A visitor to a website who initiates a video call can delete any one or more participants to the video call during the video call or otherwise limit the participation of any one or more participants to the video call during the video call. In this manner the visitor who initiates a video call can control participation in the video call.

If a person is abusive during a video call session the initiator who also acts as a moderator will have the ability to kick that person off the session be terminating that participant s connection to the video call session. The initiator can also report the abusive participant to the video call provider for review and actions such as warnings removals or suspensions of that participant s video call account or blacklisting that participant will be considered. If the call initiator leaves the call the option to remove a participant from the video call may not be available. However the other participants can still report an abusive participant.

A private mode video call initiated by a visitor may involve a visitor choosing that the call will be private in the same manner as non visitor initiators of calls. In such an instance participants can only be asked to join the call by social media email or a URL which can be copied and pasted into a text message. The visitor video call initiator decides on the participation functions for invited participants.

Another embodiment of the present invention is operable a video call to be initiated by a user any of a third party website a personalized profile page of the user or a page in the video call provider s website. As shown in a third party website may include an option whereby the video call system is operable to initiate a video call from the a page of the third party website. In such an embodiment of the present invention a user may initiate a video call from the third party webpage that has a video call initiating option embedded in the third party webpage. The video call initiating option can be selected from the third party webpage by the user to initiate the video call between the user and one or more other persons. Prior to the video call and or during the video call the user can invite other persons to join and participate in the video call by sending invitations to such persons via the Internet or another network connection between the user of the third party webpage and such other persons. For example the user may invite one or more of the user s follower s one or more of the user s fans or other invitees or one or more other people whose contact information is known to the user to join the video call.

In an embodiment of the present invention a third party website may incorporate a personalized webpage. A personalized webpage can have the script for the video call added as a sidebar or other option just as described herein for other third party websites. The videocall API can be initiated from a link or button on the sidebar.

The system may be operable so that the user initiating a video call can initiate the call in a public mode or a private mode. If a video call is initiated in a public mode the system may be configured to allow for a wide range of persons to join and participate either fully or in a limited manner in the video call. For example in the public mode followers fans other invitees friends other affiliates of the user and other groups of persons whose contact information is known to the user may join the video call. It is possible in some embodiments of the present invention that persons whose contact information is not known to the user who initiates the call including followers and or friends of other participants in the call or persons who view the video call through a website and who are otherwise unrelated to participants in the call may join the video call. A skilled reader will recognize that one or more parameters may be set to indicate the scope of the participants in a call.

Parameters for a video call may be are set during a video call initiation process that occurs after the request to initiate a video call generated by a user. A user will have an option to alter the session from private to public mode or vice versa during the call.

All participants in a call will require access to a video call participation option which may be provided via an electronic communication directed to a person such as an email text tweet or other electronic communication or as may be available from a website or other page available through a network.

A public mode call may be set to be recorded and may be shared with other persons after the call either by invite or through making the video generally available to the public. A skilled reader will recognize that access to a recorded video call may be provided directly from a participant having stored a copy of the video call through the dissemination of copies of the video call to other persons by either the system or call participants having a copy of the video call in their possession or through a storage area linked to the system and facilitation of open or limited access to such stored video call. A skilled reader will further recognize that access to either a stored video call or copies of a video call may be limited or full access and that such access parameters may be set by the system or the call participant s depending on the mode of access or dissemination of the video call after the call is terminated.

A user who initiates a video call whether from a third party website a webpage of a video call provider or a personalized user profile webpage can delete e.g. kick out or terminate any one or more participants to the video call during the video call or otherwise limit the participation of any one or more participants to the video call during the video call. In this manner the user who initiates a video call can control participation in the video call.

In an embodiment of the present invention a parameter can be set to limit the number of participants during the video room creation which occurs when a user initiates a video call. During the call the call initiator can amend the number of participants. A call initiator can also remove participants from the call.

A video call session occurs within a video room of the system and therefore the creation of a video room refers to the preparation of the environment of the video call which includes aspects such as the number of participants any limitations of the participation of any participants whether the call is public or private etc. A private mode video call initiated by a user can be said to occur in a private room wherein all participants must be invited.

Embodiments of the present invention may apply variant modes of initiating a video call. The steps may vary so as to be consistent with the type of call to be initiated. For example the call may be initiated by a visitor to a website a user from a user s website or a user from a personalized user profile or personalized webpage. Generally when a video call is initiated the first step will be to perform a query to ensure that a video call is not already in progress from the webpage or profile page from whence the call is to be initiated. If the response to the query indicates that no video call is in progress from the webpage or profile page then the system will set up a channel connection for a video call and engage the media required for the video call for example such as a webcam and microphone stream from the computer or mobile device of the visitor or user who is requesting that a video call be initiated. Once these steps complete successfully the video call session will have initiated and the next step is to make a connection with the computers or mobile devices of each of the one or more persons who are to be initial participants in the video call.

When an invitee or other person wishing to join and participate in a video call utilizes the link button or other option that is provided for such person to utilize to join a video call the system undertakes certain steps to cause the person to be joined into the video call. For example one such step is gathering information to identify the video call that the person is to join. An embodiment of the present invention may be operable to obtain information pertaining to a user s video call session and the session identification in particular. The session identification relates to a video call room e.g. video call session . The video call identification can be saved in list of favourite rooms e.g. favourite video sessions on a personalized profile page. The list of favourite video sessions may be a list of the video sessions that are chosen as favourites of the participant. A session can be chosen from the list of favourites to initiate a call with the same participants as were involved in the video call session indicated as a favourite. In this manner a participant who regularly engages in video calls with the same group of people can automatically initiate a video call with these people without having to go through the invitation process or any search for the public group. If the video session with these people is identified by a session identification the user of the system can initiate a video call with the same people by choosing the session identification.

It is preferable that the session identification and other session information should only be sought by the system after the system connects to the signaling server. The signaling server functions as the bridge and it identifies the online details of users of the system. The signaling server utilizes the Session Description Protocol SDP to exchange user information between users so that a media streaming connection can be established between the users.

Once the session identification is obtained the session identification and other session information can be stored in a system storage area such as the data repository unit or another storage area attached to the system and the session identification and or the other session information can be accessed from the storage area and utilized for future steps and or purposes of the system.

Another step that may be undertaken by the system to cause a person to join a video call that is in progress is that the system may need to make room on the video call of the additional joining participant joinee . For example if there is room on the video call for another joinee the system may join the joinee to the video call. However if there is no room in the video call the system may generate and run code to create room in the video call session having the identified session identification. The definition of room here is the amount of participants the room initiator set to include in other words the capacity of the room. If the initiator defines the maximum number of participants who can engage in a video call in a video room then the room is restricted to that number of participants. Once the maximum number of participants is reached no one else can join the call. The initiator can increase the room capacity for participants to a video room during the video call session to accommodate more participants.

There are a variety of methods and steps whereby a user can request a video call be initiated. In some methods a video call enabling option will already exist on a website or profile page from whence a user or visitor submits a request to initiate a video call. In the instance that a video call enabling option does not exist on a website from whence a user or visitor is to initiate a video call a user or visitor may take steps to make a video call enabling option available for said website. One such method whereby a visitor or user can request the creation of a video call enabling option to be provided via a website is shown in .

The video call enabling option embedding method involves a user submitting a request to the system. This request is submitted using a system similar to that shown for a request for initiating a video call shown in . The request submitted by the user will be received by the system and such request will indicate that a video call enabling option is not available from a particular website.

An instruction to generate a video call enabling option will be provided to the video call enabling code generating unit . The unit will then undertake steps as described herein to generate a video call enabling option and embed in or otherwise make available from the identified website.

As shown in user generates a video call request . During the request process the user may be prompted to provide an email address of the user and a mobile device contact number of the user. The system registers the video call request . As part of the registration process upon receipt of the email address and mobile device number the system may cause the identity verification unit to generate a verification link and a verification code.

The system may transmit the verification link to the provided email address and the verification code to the mobile device contact number . The user is required to acknowledge receipt of the verification link via email and the verification code via the user s mobile device to complete the request process . The user may activate the verification link and during the activation may input the verification code.

The email address and mobile device contact number provided by the user during the request process may be stored in a storage area linked to the system for example such as in the data repository unit .

The final step in the request process is that the system causes the video call enabling code generating unit to generate a video call enabling code for the website where the video code enabling option will be embedded or otherwise made available. The user may copy the generated code and paste the code in the respective website to embed the video call enabling option on the website for use by website visitors and users.

Either prior to the start of a video call or during a video call a user can invite one or more persons to participate in the video call. shows a system that is an embodiment of the present invention that is operable to provide such invitations to potential participants. shows the method for such invitations. is just one example of a system to provide a method for inviting participants to the video call. The participant invitation method shown in involves a user creating a request for a video call session . The request may be created through use of the application programming interface with socket . The application program interface with socket may utilize the video call socket server . So that upon receiving the request the video call socket server may generate a video call session invitation and will transmit the video call session invitation to the invitee . The session invitation is sent by operation of the invitation mail sending tool of the system.

In one embodiment of the present invention the system generates a URL for the video call session. This URL is sent or otherwise transmitted to the invited participant. When the invited participant clicks or otherwise selects the URL the invited participant will be directed to the video room video call session and this direction will cause the invited participant to join the video room video call session.

An invitee session may be stored at the video call socket server and the initiator session may be stored at the video call socket server . A video call recording can be created of the video call session through the function of a video call socket server that is operable to store the video call session. The recording that may include video call session room details can be stored in a data storage area linked to the system such as the data repository unity .

The video call process of an embodiment of the present invention is shown in . A skilled reader will recognize that other processes for video calls in accordance with the present invention are possible as described herein. The example of a video call process in involves a video call between two users. A skilled reader will recognize that video call can be created between more than two users and that a video call can be between a user who initiates the call and one or more other persons as discussed herein.

An example of a method for making a video call is shown in and the system elements utilized for this are shown in . A skilled reader will recognize that a variety of methods and systems may be utilized to make a video call as discussed herein and that are provided as an example of one such method and system.

As shown in a video call method may involve a user e.g. User requesting a video call with another person e.g. User . The request for a video call will be processed by the application programming interface with socket as described herein. The video call session may be created by the application program interface API with socket . This may involve configuring the video call socket server to check the session routing. The session routing from User will be checked for the availability of video call sessions . If the check returns a result that there is availability for video call sessions from User the video call socket server will establish the video call in response to the request of User. Establishing the call may involve the video call socket server further being configured to check the session routing to User for availability of video call sessions. If the check returns a result that there is availability for a video call session to User the video call socket server allows User to make an incoming call to User . Data generated by the video call session between User and User may be stored in the data repository unit or any other storage area linked to the system.

The following method may be used by the system to establish a video call between a first user requesting the call User and one or more other persons. The system may review the local stream of User and check whether User is the initiator of the video call. A route or room or other space for the video call session may be established by the system and media required by the system will be reserved for the call. The media required for a call that is engaged for a call may include a variety of media for example such as a microphone a webcam a touchscreen a mouse a keyboard a music player a video player or any other media.

The initiator of the video call is referenced as User in this description for the purpose of clarifying specific activities required by and available to the initiator of the call. However once the call is initiated User is also considered a participant of the call and has the capabilities and experience described herein as that of any participant s to the call.

The system next attempts to establish the video call session between User and the one or more other persons identified by User to be engaged in the call. Should any of the one or more other persons identified by User to be engaged in the call not be available to participate in the call or should the system otherwise be unable to establish a link between User and such other person the system will provide a notification to the person who is not reached that User had tried to connect in a video call session with such person and provide an alert to User that such person is unavailable for a call. Notifications include new followers missed calls IM from friends and video voicemails.

This step of gathering information relating to a participant may occur each time a new participant joins the call so that the system gathers information about each participant upon such participate joining the call. At least some of the information regarding the participants in a call will be made available to the participants of the call and to other persons not participating in the call so that participants and some non participants can be aware of the participants of the call. The participant information is updated each time a participant joins the call or logs off the call. All participants are known by their username which will be displayed under the participant list in the room. The difference between private and public is private rooms are not published or promoted in the public domain and participants to a private room are only those invited by the initiator.

While engaged in a video call participants may be able to send private messages to one or more of the participants. The message may be displayed on the screens of the participants and or may be sent to other devices of the participants such as text message sent to a mobile device of all or some of the participants.

In one embodiment of the present invention participants can send SMS short message service messages rather than an IM instant message to another user. The mobile or cell numbers of all of the registered members will be stored in the user database. If a member is using the mobile app version of the present invention through a mobile connection via a mobile device and wants to send a SMS to another member the system will direct the SMS to be sent from the member s mobile phone SMS service. If user is using a mobile app with no mobile connection e.g. tablets with no SIM card support then the SMS will be routed and sent via our SMS gateway service. SMS will be routed in a similar manner for members utilizing the system through websites via a mobile device.

While engaged in a video call participants may be able to send messages to all participants. The message may be displayed on the screens of the participants to whom the message is sent or may be sent to other devices of such participants such as text message sent to a mobile device of such participants.

User may control the participation of other participants in the call. For example User may control which participants have enabled microphones and can thereby have an audio feed that can be heard by other participants. This control can occur when a participant joins the call and or during the call. So that a participant may join the call and have an enabled microphone upon joining the call but User may choose to disable a participant s microphone during the call. As another example User may control the video input of a participant by enabling and disabling the webcam or other camera used by a participant to provide visual input into the video call.

In some embodiments of the present invention a tool may be engaged by the system that is operable to recognize words phrases key words or other content of the discussion of the participants during the video call session. The system may utilize the recognized content to provide information about the real time discussions of the participants in the video call session to provide information about the flow of the video call session to participants and or non participants. For example the tool may be a speech recognition software tool. It may also be possible for the tool to be operable to recognize written text and drawings that may be entered on a white board or a screen and thereby disseminated to the participants.

In an embodiment of the present invention keywords relating to video call content may be generated from three primary sources 1 the description of the video room 2 the messages between the participants during the video call 3 the audio conversation between the participants in the room for which a translator to translate spoken words to written words may be utilized.

The recognition tool may allow a participant who is required to engage in the video call session for only certain topics to monitor the flow of the topics discussed by the participants without having to listen and participate in the entire video call session. For example in a video call session that is a business meeting between members of a company a participant may monitor the disseminated information about the content of the discussion of the participants either after joining the video call session or before joining into the video call session. While the disseminated information indicates that the discussion is not relevant to the particular company member that company member does not need to engage in the video call session. For example the business member may not be joined into the video call session or may have the video call session discussion on mute if such business member has joined the call session as a participant. However once the disseminated information about the discussion of the participants shows that the content of the discussion is relevant to the business member such business member may then become fully engaged as a participant of the video call session.

A whiteboard tool may be available to one or more participants in a video call session. For example the availability of the whiteboard tool to various participants in a video call session may be set by the party who initiated the video call session e.g. User . It may be possible for the availability of the whiteboard to be altered during a video session so that one or more participants may have access to the whiteboard tool during portions of the video call. For example if the video call is a meeting of participants who are working on a joint project the whiteboard may be available to one or more particular participants at specific times during the call when such particular participants are presenting regarding their portion of the joint project and the whiteboard tool may be available to one or more other participants during other points during the call.

The whiteboard tool permits one or more participants to have the opportunity to write or draw upon a whiteboard and for that writing or drawing to be presented to one or more other participants during the video call session. The whiteboard tool will function in a manner similar to a physical whiteboard used in a meeting when the participants are physically present in the same room. A skilled reader will further recognize that the whiteboard tool may be utilized in any manner that is particularly relevant to the video call session and the sharing information between two or more participants of the call. Information written or drawn upon the whiteboard of the whiteboard tool during a video call session may be stored after a call and may be accessible by the user who initiated the call and possibly to other participants as well. The access to the participants may be in accordance with settings and parameters inputted to the system by the user who initiates the video call. It may also be possible for access to the whiteboard drawings and written information to be altered after the video call by the use who initiated by the video call. For example if the written or drawn whiteboard information from a video call becomes relevant to certain participants of the system the user who initiated the video call session during which the whiteboard information was captured may grant access to the whiteboard information to such participants. Or should the whiteboard information become irrelevant to certain participants after the video call session the user who initiated the video call session may terminate the access of such participants to the whiteboard information after the video call session.

At any point during the video call a participant may leave the video call by logging off the video call. Any participant can take the required steps to end its participation in the video call session. For example in some embodiments of the present invention an End Call button may be displayed to a participant upon the screen that the participant is utilizing to participate in the video session and upon the participant selecting the End Call button the participant s participation in the video call session will be terminated. The user who initiates the video call session may logoff the video call session and the other participants may continue to participate in the video call session. If a participant marks the call as one of its favourites so that the system recognizes the video call as a favourite of the participant then that participant may be able to find the video call session listed in that participant s list of favourite sessions and may be able to return to the video call at a later time if the call is continuing at that time by selecting the call from the favourites list. The video call session must be identified as a favourite session before the participants leaves the video call session in order for the session to be stored in the list of the participant s favourite calls. Should the call have ended a participant selecting the session from the participant s favourites lists may initiate a new video call session to which all the same participants are invited who were participating in the video call session at the point in time when the participant originally saved the video call session as a favourite.

The call can be ended by all of the participants having logged off the video call session. There can be a variety of means whereby a participant may logoff a video call session. One example is utilizing a End Call button as described above. In some embodiments of the present invention it may be possible for the use who initiated the video call session or another participant who is granted administrator status to end the call for all participants simultaneously.

Once a call is ended it is possible that a copy of the video call session may be stored in a storage area linked to the system. A copy of the video call session may also be sent to a participant after the call has terminated. The copy of the video call session may be sent by any means including email text selected download etc. In an embodiment of the present invention the copy of the video call session will be sent directly to external storage as indicated by the participant who requests the copy and a copy of the video call session will not be stored in the system.

Once a participant receives a copy of the video call session the participant may store a copy of the video call session on their personal device or in any other location where the participant chooses to store the copy of the video call session.

In one embodiment of the present invention a copy of the video call session may also be saved on the system. For example the copy of the video call session may be accessible by the participant from the participant s profile page within the system. The copy of the saved video call session may be viewed privately by the participant on the system or may be shared with other participants so that multiple participants can view the saved video call session.

Notably embodiments of the invention that do not consistently save a copy of the video call session may not be at risk for dissemination of any private information relating to video call sessions. For example such systems may not be at risk of a third party hacking into the system storage area or by other means whereby private video call session data is disseminated because the video call session information will not be stored on such an embodiment of the system.

An embodiment of the present invention that is a system for a call between more than two participants is shown in . For example the multiple participant video call system of shows an embodiment of the present invention that creates a call between User who initiates the call and two other participants User and User. A skilled reader will recognize that this is merely an example of an embodiment of the system and other embodiments of the present invention may incorporate a system operable to engage more than three participants in a video call session.

As shown in in one embodiment of the present invention User may submit a request to initiate a video call with User to the system. The request is transferred to the system and the system will check session availability for the video call . The system may cause the video call socket server the application program interface and the webRTC based application program interface and socket to operate to check the availability of a video session initiated by User. If the results of the check indicate the requisite available a video call session between User and User may be initiated.

The system will then perform a check for session availability for User to engage in the video session. If the results of this check indicate that there is session availability for User to engage in the video call then the video call request is sent to User from User. The request for User to join the video call session sent by the system to User may be accepted or rejected by User . The acceptance or rejection of the request from User to User to join the video session is provided by User to the application programming interface. If an acceptance is received from User by the application programming interface the video call session between User and User is set up.

User may send an invitation for User to join the video call and this invitation may be indicated to the system. The system will then perform a check for session availability for User to engage in the video session. If the results of this check indicate that there is session availability for User to engage in the video call then the video call request is sent to User from User. The request for User to join the video call session sent by the system to User may be accepted or rejected by User . The acceptance or rejection of the request from User to User to join the video session is provided by User to the application programming interface. If an acceptance is received from User by the application programming interface User joins the video call session already in session between User and User.

The video call session may occur in one or more active rooms that each participant to the video call is connected. Initially User and User are connected to the active rooms. User is connected to the active rooms when User joins the video call. The participants leave and disconnect from the active rooms when a participant leaves the video call or when a participant is ejected from the video call by another participant. The user who initiates a video call session may eject a participant from a video call session by terminating that participant s participation in the video call session. For example a participant may be ejected if such participant is engaging in disruptive behaviour. As an example of one possible means whereby a user who initiates a video call session can eject another participant the user who initiates a video call session may be able to select one of the participants to the video call session from a list of participants and a button may be available to the user who initiated the video call session whereby if the button is selected the participation of the participant in the video call session is terminated. A skilled reader will recognize that other means for ejecting a participant from a video call session may be available.

A skilled reader will recognize that other participants can be joined to the video call in a similar manner.

Should User accept the request to join the video call an incoming call is generated from User to User . User may utilize the system to make an incoming call to provide a request to User to join the current video call session . The application program interface API with socket may check the availability of video call sessions with User. If there is availability User may join the video call in session between User and User. A copy of the video call session may be stored in the data repository unit or any other storage area linked to the system.

Further the recorded videos may be deleted after a few seconds and the recent recorded videos of the video call may be updated. This process may be processed by a video call socket server . The update of the recent recorded videos after a video is deleted will involve removing the deleted video from the list of recent recorded videos.

Embodiments of the present invention may have different appearances when viewed by participants to a video call while the video call is in progress. A skilled reader will recognize the wide variety of possible appearances of the video call that may appear on a participant s screen during the video call. and D provide examples of some possible appearances of some screens of embodiments of the present invention that may be viewable by participants to the video call.

In embodiments of the present invention the video call initiating code may use WebRTC API which supports browser to browser applications for voice calling video chat and P2P file sharing without plug ins.

The webpage may further incorporate a chat option whereby a participant in the video call can engage in written text chat with other participants during the video call. In this manner the discussion during the video call can be both verbal and written and both forms of discussion can occur simultaneously.

The claimed subject matter has been provided here with reference to one or more features or embodiments. Those skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that despite of the detailed nature of the exemplary embodiments provided here changes and modifications may be applied to said embodiments without limiting or departing from the generally intended scope. These and various other adaptations and combinations of the embodiments provided here are within the scope of the disclosed subject matter as defined by the claims and their full set of equivalents. It is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The present disclosure is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

An embodiment of the present invention may be available in a software application app format that is accessible and utilizable from a mobile device. The app version of the present invention will involve the same functions and features as is available for the browser version of the present invention described herein.

