---

title: Observer filtered activity recommendations
abstract: Technologies related to observer filtered activity recommendations are generally described. In some examples, a computing device may collect activity and observer information for a device user, may identify limited observer activities, and may generate observer filtered activity recommendations for the device user, the observer filtered activity recommendations corresponding to the identified limited observer activities. Observer filtered activity recommendations may optionally be restricted in the presence of current observers outside a limited observer group. In some examples, the computing device may provide automated access to observer information and/or to observer filtered activity information to enable observer filtered activity recommendations by applications accessing the observer information and/or the observer filtered activity information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411894&OS=09411894&RS=09411894
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09411894
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151002
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 383 720 entitled OBSERVER FILTERED ACTIVITY RECOMMENDATIONS filed on Sep. 8 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 195 762 which is a U.S. National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application PCT US14 33360 entitled OBSERVER FILTERED ACTIVITY RECOMMENDATIONS filed on Apr. 8 2014. The disclosures of parent U.S. patent application and International Application are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Interactions with computing devices applications and services are becoming increasingly personalized. For example TV shows movies videos advertisements music news activities events humor search queries and search results can be usefully recommended to computer users based on user history and or other user information.

Moreover many of today s computing devices are mobile and are equipped with a variety of sensors. For example the various IPHONE devices made by Apple Inc. the various devices equipped with ANDROID software made by Google Inc. and the various devices equipped with WINDOWS PHONE software made by Microsoft Corp. are often equipped with technologies such as Global Positioning System GPS technologies and accelerometers. Such technologies allow for collecting additional user information e.g. location history and accelerometer data which can be leveraged to make additional types of recommendations. Such technologies also allow for increased utility and level of personalization of recommendations in general.

Personalized recommendations may be generally considered desirable by computer users as well as commercial interests. Computer users may want personalized recommendations because they allow for faster identification of relevant useful information. Commercial interests appreciate that personalized recommendations can drive increased economic activity and goodwill. Notwithstanding there may be ongoing concerns about user privacy and such concerns can affect desirability of opting into disclosures needed for more personalized recommendations.

The present disclosure generally describes technologies including devices methods and computer readable media relating to observer filtered activity recommendations. Some example methods may comprise making observer filtered activity recommendations by a computing device e.g. by collecting activity information for activities engaged by a device user collecting observer information comprising observers proximal to the device user when the activities are engaged storing collected activity information and collected observer information identifying based on the collected observer information limited observer activities among the collected activity information and generating for the device user observer filtered activity recommendations corresponding to the limited observer activities. Some embodiments may time observer filtered activity recommendations to occur when the device user is in private or in presence of a limited set of observers thereby protecting device user privacy with respect to current observers.

Some embodiments may store sentiment information for activities e.g. positive or negative sentiment scores. When a limited observer activity is a positive activity associated with a positive sentiment score observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise recommendations to engage in the positive activity such as advertisements for products or services to engage in the positive activity. Conversely when a limited observer activity is a negative activity associated with a negative sentiment score observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise recommendations to assist in preventing the negative activity such as advertisements for products or services to assist in preventing the negative activity. Embodiments may thereby assist in detecting behaviors that a device user may want to change and may assist in preventing or changing such behaviors.

Some example methods may comprise providing by a computing device automated access to observer filtered activity information. Such methods may enable inter alia providing observer filtered activity information to applications executable by the computing device allowing the applications to make observer filtered activity recommendations while simultaneously protecting device user privacy.

To enable automated access to observer filtered activity information the computing device may store activity information for activities engaged by a device user and observer information comprising observers proximal to the device user when the activities are engaged. Limited observer activities may be identified among the activity information based on the observer information. The computing device may receive requests for activity information and determine in response to activity information requests whether the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity.

When requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity the computing device may restrict activity information provided in response to the request. Example approaches for restricting activity information include comparing current observer information to observer information corresponding to the limited observer activity and or displaying a permission User Interface UI comprising a request for device user permission to provide the requested activity information. The computing device may automatically provide the requested activity information in response to the request subject to restriction when the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity.

Some example methods may comprise collecting and providing observer information by a computing device. Such methods may enable inter alia automatically providing observer information to applications executable by the computing device. The applications may be allowed to trigger observer collection events and or request observer information e.g. to make observer filtered activity recommendations.

Methods to collect and provide observer information may comprise collecting by the computing device at observer collection events observer information comprising identifications of observers proximal to a device user storing collected observer information from the observer collection events receiving observer information requests and automatically providing in response to observer information requests one or more of requested observer information corresponding to observer collection events identified in the observer information requests or indications of whether current observer information matches stored observer information corresponding to observer collection events identified in the observer information requests.

Computing devices and computer readable media having instructions implementing the various technologies described herein are also disclosed. Example computer readable media may comprise non transitory computer readable storage media having computer executable instructions executable by a processor the instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to carry out any combination of the various methods provided herein. Example computing devices may include a server comprising a processor a memory and an observer filtered activity recommendation system an interface for automated access to observer filtered activity information and or an interface for automated access to collected observer information configured to carry out the methods described herein.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures may be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to technologies including methods devices systems and or computer readable media deployed therein relating to observer filtered activity recommendations. In some examples a computing device may collect activity and observer information for a device user identify limited observer activities and generate observer filtered activity recommendations for the device user corresponding to the limited observer activities. Observer filtered activity recommendations may optionally be restricted in the presence of current observers outside a limited observer group. In some examples the computing device may provide automated access to observer information and or to observer filtered activity information to enable observer filtered activity recommendations by applications accessing the observer information and or the observer filtered activity information.

In one example scenario an adult may secretly enjoy the music of a teen pop idol. The adult may frequently use her mobile device to listen to the teen music. Her mobile device is an example computing device she is an example device user and the act of listening to teen music is an example of an activity for which activity information may be collected by her mobile device.

Her mobile device may furthermore collect observer information when she listens to teen music. Observer information may comprise information indicative of persons proximal to the device user. In some embodiments observer information may comprise a total count of persons proximal to the device user or a best approximation of such a total count of persons. Observer information may comprise e.g. a total count such as 0 1 2 3 . . . total observers. In some embodiments observer information may comprise identifications indicative of persons proximal to the device user e.g. where an identifier may be collected for each separate observer. Identifiers may comprise for example any assigned identifiers. In some embodiments identifiers may comprise names of persons proximal to the device user and or identifiers for observer devices proximal to the device user e.g. devices typically carried by persons such as mobile phones . Observer information may or may not always be complete however incomplete observer information may nonetheless be useful in connection with embodiments of this disclosure.

A variety of observer information collection techniques are described herein e.g. in some embodiments the device user s mobile device may use a wireless signal sensor to detect presence of observer devices. Collected activity and observer information may be stored either at the mobile device or at another location such as at a server. For simplicity of explanation this example will continue to use the mobile device as the example computing device with the understanding that different or additional devices may be employed in some embodiments.

The mobile device may use collected activity and observer information to identify limited observer activities. Limited observer activities may comprise activities for which observers are limited as determined from collected activity and observer information. For example observer information for multiple instances of a given activity may reveal that observers are limited for the given activity. In some examples observers may be limited in number and such limited observer activities are referred to herein as solitary type limited observer activities. In some examples observers may be limited to any observer property such as observer gender or other observer group affiliation and such limited observer activities are referred to herein as group type limited observer activities.

For example the mobile device may determine from analysis of multiple instances of listening to teen music that observers are almost never present for that activity in which case listening to teen music is a solitary type limited observer activity or that certain observers are almost never present for that activity in which case listening to teen music is a group type limited observer activity . Those certain observers may correspond to certain individuals familiar to the device user or for example to her friends her family or her work colleagues as a group. Conversely in some embodiments the mobile device may use collected activity and observer information to identify unlimited observer activities such as activities performed multiple times in the presence of a variety of different observers or for example any activities other than identified limited observer activities.

In some embodiments identifying limited observer activities may comprise identifying solitary type limited observer activities such as where a device user typically engages the activity alone or else in the presence of fewer than a predetermined number of observers. In some embodiments identifying limited observer activities may comprise identifying group type limited observer activities such as where a device user typically engages the activity in the presence of a limited set of observers which may be limited to specific individual observers or to a group affiliation such as family observers or work observers. Identification of limited observer activities as a solitary or group type limited observer activities may be used in generating observer filtered activity recommendations e.g. in determining observer filtered activity recommendation content and or timing.

In some embodiments identification of limited observer activities as well as determinations regarding properties of limited observer activities may be user assisted. For example the mobile device may provide a privacy settings UI comprising controls adapted to confirm or deny that certain activities are limited observer activities. In some embodiments the privacy settings UI may comprise controls adapted for device user indications of allowed observers for identified limited observer activities.

The mobile device may generate observer filtered activity recommendations for identified limited observer activities. Observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise e.g. activity suggestions and or advertisements for products or services associated with limited observer activities. For example in the case of listening to teen music observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise recommendations to listen to and or advertisements to buy a recent release of a new teen pop idol recommendations or advertisements for upcoming teen music concerts or apparel or for example recommendations or advertisements for activities correlated with teen music interest. Conversely in some embodiments the mobile device may generate observer filtered activity recommendations for identified unlimited observer activities. Activity recommendations may be considered as observer filtered if observer information is used in any way in connection with the decision to make the activity recommendation or in connection with the content or timing of the activity recommendation.

Activity information for use in connection with embodiments of this disclosure may relate to any activities and may be collected by any collection techniques. In some embodiments activity information may comprise device user product selection information for example selections of tangible or intangible products or services such as music videos movies books magazines subscriptions news humor electronics medicines medical services legal services financial services financial products such as stocks and bonds airfare hotel rooms meals sporting goods or any other products or services or subcategories thereof such as in the case of music rock heavy metal classical teen music children s music etc. Activity information may also comprise search queries and website visits as well as subcategories thereof.

In some embodiments activity information may comprise device user context activity determinations based on data collected at a device user s computing device such as the mobile device in the present example scenario. Context activity determinations may comprise e.g. determinations regarding physical world activities such as driving walking bicycling flying eating at a restaurant drinking at a bar smoking sitting shopping gambling doctor visits attorney visits visiting a friend taking medications etc. Services such as GOOGLE NOW and SIRI are currently able to make a variety of context activity determinations and they are expected to become ever more powerful at making such activity determinations in the future.

By collecting observer information for activities such as product selections internet searches and physical world activities and by identifying limited observer activities from the observer information embodiments may support observer filtered activity recommendations which may be targeted to potential device user sentiments regarding their various activities. For example observer filtered activity recommendations comprising advertisements for teen music may have a strong emotional impact on a device user for whom teen music is a limited observer activity. In contrast advertisements for music of another genre which genre is not classified as a limited observer activity may have less emotional impact on the device user. Embodiments may optionally also provide observer filtered activity recommendations at opportune times e.g. when a device user is in private or otherwise outside the presence of any current observers beyond the set of limited observers associated with a limited observer activity.

Some embodiments may use sentiment information for limited observer activities to improve targeting of observer filtered activity recommendations to potential device user sentiments regarding their various activities. Sentiment information may be drawn from a variety of sources and may take a variety of forms. In some example embodiments sentiment information may indicate positive or negative sentiment scores for limited observer activities. Positive or negative sentiment scores may be drawn from sentiment data designed to reflect general cultural sentiments about limited observer activities or sentiment scores may be drawn from sentiment data designed to reflect sentiments associated with the device user s demographic such as device user age gender ethnicity geographic region etc.

For example unhealthy activities such as smoking alcohol or drug use or eating unhealthy foods may be associated with negative sentiment scores while healthy activities such as listening to music and exercise may be associated with positive sentiment scores. Other embodiments may include sentiment information from other sources e.g. embodiments may present device users with surveys designed to request device user sentiment scores for limited observer activities.

In some embodiments when a limited observer activity is identified as a positive activity with a positive sentiment score observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise recommendations to engage in the positive activity such as in the example of recommending additional teen music for the device user. Conversely when a limited observer activity is identified as a negative activity with a negative sentiment score observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise recommendations to assist in preventing the negative activity. In this way observer filtered activity recommendations may be based on both observer information as well as sentiment information to produce highly effective observer filtered activity recommendations.

In some embodiments a familiarity filter may be applied to collected observer information to differentiate between familiar and unfamiliar observers. By applying a familiarity filter embodiments may more effectively identify limited observer activities e.g. by eliminating or otherwise reducing the importance of unfamiliar observers in collected observer information.

In another example scenario a device user may use his mobile device for personal as well as work related purposes. His mobile device may be equipped with a variety of applications such as a personal email application a work email application an e reader application used to read both books for pleasure and a variety of work related documents a maps application a personal banking application etc. The device user may frequently use the e reader to read politically themed books for pleasure and he may prefer to not reveal his political views at work. Meanwhile the e reader may be equipped to make reading recommendations based on the device user s historical reading activity.

His mobile device may advantageously include an interface such as an Application Programming Interface API for automated access to observer filtered activity information referred to herein as an activity API. The activity API may enable applications such as the e reader to make observer filtered activity recommendations.

For example the e reader may request activity information such as historical reading activity from the activity API. The activity API may receive the activity information request and may determine whether the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity such as politically themed books which book genre may not typically be accessed while in proximity of work observers. When the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity the activity API may restrict activity information provided in response to the activity information request. For example the activity API may omit historical reading activity related to politically themed books from activity information provided in response to the activity information request when the device user is at work or in presence of work observers. When the requested activity information does not comprise a limited observer activity the activity API may automatically provide the requested activity information in response to the activity information request.

A variety of different approaches may be used to restrict activity information provided in response to activity information requests. In some embodiments restricting activity information may comprise determining current observer information and comparing the current observer information to observer information corresponding to any limited observer activities identified in the requested activity information. In some embodiments restricting activity information may comprise displaying a permission UI comprising a request for device user permission to provide the requested activity information in response to the activity information request. In some embodiments restricting activity information may comprise removing activity information relating to limited observer activities under all circumstances. It will be appreciated with the benefit of this disclosure that a variety of other approaches may be employed for restricting activity information provided in response to activity information requests.

In some embodiments the device user s mobile device may store activity and observer information e.g. at the mobile device for use in identifying limited observer activities and responding to activity information requests. For example the mobile device may store activity and observer information in response to application generated observer collection requests. In the e reader application scenario the e reader may be adapted to make observer collection requests each time the e reader is engaged to access reading material. The e reader may optionally also optionally supply activity information such as book title genre author etc. to the activity API. The activity API may store the activity information and may collect and store observer information in response to received observer collection requests.

In some embodiments the activity API may support application specific information storage wherein for example activity and observer information is stored separately for each application that accesses the activity API. Embodiments comprising an activity API may optionally protect device user privacy by not exposing observer information to applications while nonetheless allowing applications to access observer filtered activity information and to make observer filtered activity recommendations.

In another example scenario a device user may use his mobile device for personal as well as work related purposes as described above. However instead of or in addition to the activity API described herein the mobile device may include an interface for automated access to collected observer information referred to herein as an observer API. The observer API may expose observer information more directly to applications than the activity API allowing applications to use the observer information to e.g. identify limited observer activities and make observer filtered activity recommendations.

In embodiments comprising an observer API the mobile device may for example collect and store observer information in response to observer collection events. Example observer collection events may include inter alia application generated observer collection requests periodic observer collection events and or activity based observer collection events. The observer API may be adapted to automatically provide observer information in response to observer information requests.

In some embodiments observer information requests may comprise requests for observers present at one or more specific observer collection events or at observer collection events of a specified type. In response to such observer information requests the observer API may be adapted to provide the requested observer information such as identifiers for observers detected at each observer collection event specified in an observer information request.

Applications that access observer information from the observer API may use the provided observer information to perform their own analyses of observer and activity correlations for example to identify limited observer activities and or make observer filtered activity recommendations as described herein. Applications may also find other new and useful ways to incorporate observer information supplied according to the teachings provided herein.

In some embodiments observer information requests may comprise requests for current observer approval e.g. requests to indicate whether current observer information matches stored observer information corresponding to one or more specific observer collection events or to observer collection events of a specified type. In response to such current observer approval type observer information requests the observer API may be adapted to provide indications of whether current observer information matches stored observer information corresponding to observer collection events identified in observer information requests.

In general OFARS may be configured to store activity and observer information . Activity and observer information may comprise activity information including activities engaged by device user and observer information including observers present when activities are engaged. OFARS may be configured to identify limited observer activities among activity and observer information . In some embodiments OFARS may be configured to use limited observer activities to generate observer filtered activity recommendations. In some embodiments OFARS may be configured to provide activity information to applications and while restricting activity information relating to limited observer activities allowing applications and to generate observer filtered activity recommendations. In some embodiments OFARS may be configured to provide observer information to applications and allowing applications and to e.g. identify limited observer activities and or generate observer filtered activity recommendations.

In the example embodiment illustrated in OFARS comprises an activity information collector a sentiment scorer an observer information collector a familiarity filter a storage a limited observer activity identifier a privacy settings UI an activity recommendation generator an activity API and an observer API . Storage includes activity and observer information and limited observer activities .

Activity information collector may be configured to collect activity information for activities engaged by device user . Sentiment scorer may be configured to apply sentiment scores to collected activity information. Observer information collector may be configured to collect observer information e.g. each time activity information is collected by activity information collector and substantially simultaneously with activity information collection by activity information collector . Familiarity filter may be configured to filter observer information collected by observer information collector e.g. each time observer information is collected by observer information collector . OFARS may be configured to store activity and observer information resulting from collection scoring and filtering operations of activity information collector sentiment scorer observer information collector and familiarity filter in storage . In some examples observer information collector may identify observers by using radio communications e.g. by using Wi Fi to identify the MAC addresses of observer device and or observer device . Other examples for observer device identification include but are not limited to collecting Bluetooth identifiers or other device identifiers.

Limited observer activity identifier may be configured to analyze activity and observer information to identify limited observer activities . A privacy settings UI may be configured to acquire device user input in connection with identifying limited observer activities and or to establish properties such as observer information corresponding to limited observer activities . Limited observer activity identifier may be configured to store limited observer activities and properties thereof in storage .

In some embodiments limited observer activity identifier may be configured to identify limited observer activities by ranking activities by observer counts wherein the observer counts may be familiarity filtered as described herein. Limited observer activities may comprise any activities having a number of observers that is below a threshold number of observers as may be established over a plurality of instances of the activity in activity and observer information . The threshold number of observers may be e.g. 1 2 3 4 . . . observers. Embodiments may also rank limited observer activities by number of observers where limited observer activities with fewer observers may be ranked above those with more observers.

In some embodiments activity recommendation generator may be configured to generate observer filtered activity recommendations for device user . In some embodiments observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise e.g. recommendations to engage in limited observer activities and or recommendations to assist in preventing limited observer activities . Conversely observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise e.g. recommendations to engage in unlimited observer activities e.g. activities in activity and observer information other than limited observer activities .

In some embodiments activity API may be configured to provide automated access to observer filtered activity information from OFARS . Application may be configured to request activity information from activity API . OFARS may be configured to determine whether the requested activity information comprises any limited observer activities . When OFARS determines that the requested activity information does not comprise limited observer activities activity API may be configured to automatically provide the requested activity information in response to the request.

When OFARS determines that limited observer activity information is requested by application OFARS may be configured to restrict activity information provided in response to the request. In some embodiments OFARS may be configured to limit activity information to information other than limited observer activity information . In some embodiments OFARS may be configured to check whether restriction requirements are met such as by providing a permission UI for device user approval or by comparing current observer information to observer information corresponding to requested limited observer activities. OFARS may be configured to automatically provide via activity API limited activity information and or activity information meeting restriction requirements to application in response to requests.

Application may be configured to make observer filtered activity recommendations to device user wherein application activity recommendations may be e.g. based on activity information other than limited observer activities or based limited observer activities when restriction requirements such as device user permission or current observer requirements are met.

In some embodiments observer API may be configured to provide automated access to observer information from OFARS . OFARS may optionally be configured as an observer information system adapted to support observer API without necessarily including one or more of the elements illustrated in . For example in some embodiments OFARS may provide an observer information system without limited observer activity identifier and or activity information collector. OFARS may be configured to store observer information in response to any observer collection events including activity based observer collection events requests from application to observer API and or periodic collection events.

Application may be configured to request observer information from observer API . In some embodiments observer information requests may comprise requests for observer identifiers and or observer counts from observer collection events. OFARS may be configured to automatically provide via observer API requested observer information corresponding to observer collection events identified in observer information requests received from application .

In some embodiments observer information requests may comprise current observer approval requests. OFARS may be configured to provide to application via observer API indications of whether current observer information matches stored observer information corresponding to observer collection events identified in observer information requests.

Application may be configured to use observer information returned by observer API e.g. to identify limited observer activities and or to make observer filtered activity recommendations to device user . In some embodiments application may be configured to use indications responsive to current observer approval requests to time activity recommendations to occur in presence of appropriate current observers and or to occur when device user is in private.

In some embodiments computing device may comprise a mobile device such as an IPHONE ANDROID or WINDOWS MOBILE type device. Mobile devices are increasingly equipped with personal assistants and other context systems equipped to identify activities of device users. In some embodiments OFARS may comprise a subcomponent of a context system such as GOOGLE NOW and SIRI or OFARS may be configured to interoperate with a context system. For example activity information collector may be configured to receive activity information from a context system or a context system may serve as activity information collector and a context system storage may serve as storage .

Elements of OFARS may be implemented at a single computing device as illustrated or elements of OFARS may be implemented at multiple different computing devices and may be configured to communicate across networks as appropriate. For example in some embodiments activity information collector and observer information collector may be implemented at computing device while the remaining elements of OFARS may be implemented at a remote server computing device. Other embodiments may place any aspects of OFARS at computing device and any aspects of OFARS at one or more remote server computing devices as appropriate. Furthermore OFARS and or elements of OFARS such as activity information collector sentiment scorer observer information collector familiarity filter storage limited observer activity identifier activity recommendation generator activity API and observer API may be configured to communicate with one or more remote server computing devices in the course of their operations at computing device .

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one or more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . The processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. A memory controller may also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller may be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more applications and program data . In some embodiments operating system may comprise a virtual machine that is managed by a Virtual Machine Manager VMM . Operating system may comprise for example OFARS modules. Applications may include for example application module s and application module s . Program data may include for example activity and observer information and limited observer activities that may be used by OFARS .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disc drives such as compact disc CD drives or digital versatile disc DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

Level 1 cache level 2 cache system memory removable storage and non removable storage devices are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output interfaces peripheral interfaces and communication interfaces to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate through either wired or wireless connections with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . Other conventional I O devices may be connected as well such as a mouse keyboard and so forth. An example communications device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication via one or more communication ports . Furthermore communications devices may be equipped to use short range wireless communications technologies such as Wi Fi Bluetooth Radio Frequency Identification RFID Near Field Communications NFC and the like to detect presence of other nearby devices such as observer devices and illustrated in . In some embodiments computing device may be configured to use communications devices to detect presence of one or more observer devices e.g. observer devices as may be requested by observer information collector . Computing device may be configured to count the number of detected observer devices. In some embodiments computing device may be configured to identify detected observer devices e.g. by a device or observer identifier.

The computer storage media may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared IR and other wireless media.

Computing device may be implemented as a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal or business use computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

In blocks and are illustrated as including blocks being performed sequentially e.g. with block first and block last in a sequence followed by one or more of blocks or . It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

At a Device User Engages Activity block computing device may be used by a device user in connection with an activity or computing device may detect a device user activity. For example the device user may use computing device to conduct an Internet search to watch a video to run an application or to purchase a product. The device user may undertake any number of physical activities such as sitting walking driving jogging or bicycling which may be detected by computing device . Block may be followed by block .

At a Collect Activity Information block computing device may collect activity information for the activity engaged by the device user at block . Computing device may collect activity information by storing activity information such as an activity identifier activity description and or data produced in the course of an activity. For example when the activity comprises an Internet search block may store search terms entered by the device user as activity information. When the activity comprises watching a video playing a video game using a particular application listening to music or a product selection or purchase block may store title name description and or genre category information as activity information. When the activity comprises a device user context activity determination such as a determination regarding a device user s physical activity block may store the device user context activity determination as activity information. Block may be followed by block .

At a Collect Observer Information block computing device may collect observer information comprising observers proximal to the device user when an activity is engaged by the device user at block . Block may collect observer information according to any available technique and this disclosure is not limited to any particular observer information collection technique.

In some embodiments observer information collected at block may comprise information reported via a mobile communications network. Mobile communications networks such as third generation 3G fourth generation 4G networks and other networks providing mobile voice and or data communications may collect device location information. Block may interact with one or more mobile communications network services to collect observer information e.g. by requesting information about a number of observer devices or identifiers of observer devices within a predefined range from computing device . The predefined range may comprise e.g. a sphere or circle with computing device at its center and radius of anywhere from 2 30 meters. Observer devices may comprise any and all devices proximal to the device user e.g. devices proximal to computing device such as those within the predefined range.

In some embodiments observer information collected at block may comprise Wi Fi communications information. Computing device may comprise a Wi Fi communication device. Block may use the Wi Fi communication device to detect Wi Fi signals from observer devices within range of Wi Fi communications. Block may store Wi Fi identification information for detected observer devices as observer information.

In some embodiments observer information collected at block may comprise information reported via a social network. For example information posted by the device user to a social network may include activity information as well as identifications of persons present with the device user. An example social network post may include e.g. celebrating Joe s birthday at ice skating rink and may identify Joe Anne and Tom. The activity celebrating Joe s birthday at ice skating rink may be stored as activity information at block and the identifications of persons present e.g. Joe Anne and Tom may be stored as observer information at block .

In some embodiments observer information collected at block may comprise information reported via a location based service. Location based services generally identify locations of device users for marketing and or providing location specific information. Location based services may therefore have information about computing devices as they enter and leave a particular location. Block may interact with a location based service to collect observer information e.g. by requesting information about a number of observer devices or identifiers of observer devices within range of the location based service.

In some embodiments observer information collected at block may comprise Global Positioning System GPS information. For example when computing device has appropriate permissions block may request GPS information for any observer devices within a predefined range of computing device such as the range described above. Alternatively block may request GPS information for device user contacts and may compare returned GPS information with the current location of computing device to determine any observer devices within a predefined range of computing device .

In some embodiments observer information collected at block may comprise information reported by the device user. For example an observer identification UI may be presented to the device user allowing the device user to enter observer names e.g. by typing names or selecting names from a contacts list. Block may store the observer information reported by the device user. In some embodiments information reported by the device user may supplement or modify observer information collected using one or more other techniques.

In some embodiments observer information collected at block may comprise information reported via a sensor at a device user computing device. For example an acoustic transducer or microphone may detect voices and voice recognition may be used to identify observers. A camera may detect faces and face recognition may be used to identify observers. An NFC or Bluetooth wireless sensor antenna may be used to detect wireless signals from observer devices and to identify observers or at least observer devices based on such detected wireless signals. Block may be followed by block .

At a Store Collected Activity and Observer Information block computing device may store collected activity information and collected observer information e.g. in a local computing device storage or at a remote server storage. In some embodiments block may be performed in multiple operations e.g. an activity information storage operation and an observer information storage operation. Collected activity and observer information may be stored in a manner that correlates observer information with corresponding activity information. For example observer information collected at or around a time an activity is performed may be stored in a same table row as the activity information collected for that activity. In some embodiments activity information and observer information may be stored separately and may be correlated by collection time e.g. by storing activity information along with a time each activity is engaged and by storing observer information along with a time each observer is detected. Observers corresponding to a particular activity may then be considered as those observers detected within some predetermined time window surrounding the activity. A time window may comprise e.g. 1 minute to 1 hour. Block may be followed by block .

At an Apply Familiarity Filter block computing device may apply a familiarity filter to collected observer information. Block may be performed prior to block or after block . The familiarity filter may generally filter observer information based on likely familiarity with the device user. For example in some embodiments the familiarity filter may discard unfamiliar observers from stored observer information while keeping familiar observers. In some embodiments the familiarity filter may apply weights to rank the likely familiarity of observers. To determine familiarity of observers embodiments may for example use the device user s social and professional contacts machine learning based grouping and or frequency measurements to distinguish between anonymous random bystanders and people the device user knows. Block may be followed by block .

At an Identify Limited Observer Activities block computing device may identify based on the collected observer information at least one limited observer activity among the collected activity information. Limited observer activities may be defined in several different ways. For example in some embodiments limited observer activities may comprise activities with no observers. In some embodiments limited observer activities may comprise activities with few observers such as one or fewer two or fewer etc. Limited observer activities with no observers and or few observers may be referred to herein as solitary type limited observer activities.

In some embodiments limited observer activities may comprise activities which are engaged in the presence of a limited set of observers e.g. a limited set comprising some individual observers but not others or a limited set comprising some observer types as may be ascertained from a common observer attribute but not other observer types. Limited observer activities which are engaged in the presence of a limited set of observers are referred to herein as group type limited observer activities.

Block may identify solitary type limited observer activities group type limited observer activities or both. Embodiments may identify solitary type limited observer activities e.g. by identifying activities within the stored activity and observer information which comprise fewer than a predetermined number of observers over a plurality of instances of the activity. Embodiments may identify group type limited observer activities e.g. by identifying activities within the stored activity and observer information which comprise observers within a limited set of observers corresponding to a group type limited observer activity over a plurality of instances of the group type limited observer activity. Block may be followed by block .

At a Provide Privacy Settings UI block computing device may provide a privacy settings UI adapted to receive device user privacy settings inputs. An example privacy settings UI is illustrated in .

In some embodiments privacy settings UI may comprise controls adapted to receive device user indications of allowed observers corresponding to limited observer activities. For example privacy settings UI may comprise a control a control and a control adapted to identify observers previously present when an activity was engaged and to ask whether such previous observers are allowed. In some embodiments privacy settings UI may allow the device user to specify additional observers e.g. via a control . Privacy settings UI may optionally also include additional features such as a control to request no activity recommendations for identified limited observer activities. Block may be followed by any of blocks block and or .

Returning to at a Generate Provide Observer Filtered Activity Recommendations block computing device may generate for the device user observer filtered activity recommendations corresponding to identified limited observer activities. Observer filtered activity recommendations may comprise e.g. advertisements for products or services associated with limited observer activities. Observer filtered activity recommendations may be generated e.g. by retrieving targeted advertising content.

Generated observer filtered activity recommendations may be provided to the device user e.g. by displaying the observer filtered activity recommendations on a computing device display. In some embodiments block may time observer filtered activity recommendations to occur when the device user is in private or in presence of observers within a limited set of observers corresponding a limited observer activity. As noted herein limited observer activities may generally correspond to activities associated with heightened emotional response. Activity recommendations corresponding to limited observer activities may therefore command more device user attention than other activity recommendations. Block is discussed further in connection with .

At a Provide Requested Activity Information block computing device may provide requested activity information in response to activity information requests e.g. through activity API . The provided activity information may be subject to restriction when it comprises limited observer activity information as described further in connection with .

At a Provide Requested Observer Information block computing device may provide requested observer information in response to observer information requests e.g. through observer API . The provided observer information may include observer information from observer collection events or the provided observer information may include an indication of whether current observer information matches stored observer information as described further in connection with .

In blocks are illustrated as including blocks being performed sequentially e.g. with block first and block last. It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

At a Sentiment Scoring block computing device may retrieve and store sentiment information for activities. In some embodiments block may retrieve and store sentiment information for all activities identified in stored activity and observer information . For example illustrates activity information collector providing activity information to sentiment scorer and sentiment scorer providing e.g. sentiment scored activity information into stored activity and observer information . In some embodiments block may retrieve and store sentiment information for limited observer activities identified at block . For example sentiment scorer may be configured to sentiment score limited observer activities . Sentiment information may indicate e.g. a positive or negative sentiment score for each identified limited observer activity.

Block may retrieve sentiment data from any of a variety of sources. In some embodiments block may retrieve sentiment information from a network sentiment information service adapted to support embodiments of this disclosure. An example network sentiment information service may receive activity identification information from computing device and may return sentiment information corresponding to the received activity information. In some embodiments block may request device user input including sentiment information for the device user s limited observer activities.

In some embodiments block may comprise max and min dual population sentiment scoring which may keep track of bimodal results for activity terms to capture the possibility that an activity may be associated with both positive and negative sentiment. Sentiment scoring of text and concepts is available as a service from a variety of sources. Sentiment analysis may be based on language research and may for example operate by calculating posterior probabilities that expressive language used may be associated with typical different sentiment corpora to provide a score along axes of positive or negative associations. Some concepts have strong scores along both positive and negative axes e.g. music groups controversial opinions which are normally resolved in favor of a higher weight. In max and min scoring approaches both max and min scores may be kept to capture the possibility of something being either a positive or negative activity. In such situations an activity may be considered controversial or secondary considerations may be used to judge the users feelings on the matter.

Limited observer activities with both positive and negative possible sentiment scores can be tracked in an indeterminate state and additionally resolved using other indicators. For example if it is unclear whether a limited observer activity is positive or negative OFARS may be configured to activity recommendations to stop the limited observer activity and OFARS may track whether such articles or advertising are selected by device user . If device user selects for example to read an article on stopping a limited observer activity OFARS may categorize the limited observer activity as a negative activity.

Both positive and negative limited observer activities present significant opportunities for OFARS and or context based systems adapted to use OFARS to add value for device users. Advertising for positive guilty pleasure type limited observer activities at quiet alone moments is likely to be particularly effective. Advertising traction for self management services for managing negative activities also has high value. In addition to advertising type activity recommendations OFARS may be used to recommend activities such as the use of behavior change applications and the like. Block may be followed by block .

At an Identify Positive Negative Activities block computing device may identify limited observer activities as positive activities or negative activities based on sentiment scores applied at block in order to configure block to generate appropriate activity recommendations. Activity recommendations for positive activities may comprise e.g. recommendations to engage in the positive activities. Activity recommendations for negative activities may comprise e.g. recommendations to assist in preventing the negative activities. Block may be followed by block .

At a Generate Observer Filtered Activity Recommendations block computing device may generate activity recommendations for identified limited observer activities. In some embodiments block may generate activity recommendations by retrieving activity recommendations from a network activity recommendation service or network advertising service. For example block may request from an advertising service activity recommendations for one or more limited observer activities. The limited observer activities may but need not be identified as limited observer activities in the request. In embodiments comprising sentiment scoring network activity recommendation service requests may furthermore identify limited observer activities as positive or negative sentiment activities to retrieve appropriately tailored activity recommendations. In some embodiments block may be followed by block without timing observer filtered activity recommendations based on current observers. In some embodiments block may be followed by blocks and to time observer filtered activity recommendations in a manner that is sensitive to current observers.

At a Compare Current Observers block computing device may determine current observers near computing device and computing device may compare the current observers to observers allowed for observer filtered activity recommendations relating to a limited observer activity. For example consider an activity recommendation relating to smoking. Using the techniques described herein smoking may be identified as a limited observer activity for a device user who smokes alone or for a device user who smokes in the presence of a few select observers. For a device user who smokes alone when block compares current observers to observers allowed for smoking related observer filtered activity recommendations block may determine that the comparison is false or that there is no match when any current observers are detected. Alternatively for a device user who smokes alone block may determine that the comparison is true or that there is a match when no current observers are detected.

For a device user who smokes in the presence of a few select observers when block compares current observers to observers allowed for smoking related observer filtered activity recommendations block may determine that the comparison is false or that there is no match when any current observers are detected who are not within those few select observers with whom the device user smokes. Alternatively block may determine that the comparison is true or that there is a match when no current observers are detected beyond those few select observers with whom the device user smokes. Block may therefore be used to enable timing of observer filtered activity recommendations to occur when the device user is in private or in presence of observers within a limited set of observers corresponding to a limited observer activity. Block may be followed by block .

At a Provide Observer Filtered Activity Recommendations block computing device may provide observer filtered activity recommendations generated at block optionally when current observer conditions allow or when the observer comparison is true as determined at block . Observer filtered activity recommendations may be provided e.g. by displaying advertisements or other activity recommendations e.g. as a sidebar pop up search result other visual display or otherwise from within an application. Some applications such as personal assistants may make recommendations based in part on device user preferences and observer filtered activity recommendations may be displayed as personal assistant activity recommendations. Observer filtered activity recommendations may also be provided as emails text messages audio messages phone calls or other items. In embodiments which time observer filtered activity recommendations based in part on current observers block may cooperate with block to provide observer filtered activity recommendations at opportune times based on detected current observers.

In blocks are illustrated as including blocks being performed sequentially e.g. with block first and block last. It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

At a Receive Activity Information Request block computing device may receive a request for activity information. For example in some embodiments OFARS may receive an activity information request at activity API . The activity information request may comprise e.g. a request from an application installed at computing device . Block may be followed by block .

At a Determine Whether Requested Activity Information Comprises Limited Observer Activity Information block computing device may determine in response to the request received at block whether the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity. Block may for example compare the requested activity information with limited observer activities . If the requested activity information includes any of limited observer activities then the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity. If the requested activity information does not include any of limited observer activities then the requested activity information does not comprise a limited observer activity. Block may be followed by block .

At a Restrict Requested Activity Information block computing device may restrict activity information provided in response to the request received at block when the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity as determined at block . When determined at block that requested activity information does not include any of limited observer activities block may be omitted or may pass directly to block without performing any restriction operations. When determined at block that requested activity information does include one or more limited observer activities block may restrict activity information according to any of the example restriction operations illustrated at blocks and or .

At a Limit Requested Activity Information block computing device may limit activity information provided in response to the request received at block by removing any limited observer activities from activity information provided in response to the request. For example in the scenario of an e reader that requests past reading activities and where political genre reading is identified as a limited observer activity block may limit activity information provided in response to the e reader request by removing political genre reading activities. Meanwhile block may allow activity information responsive to the request and not comprising limited observer activities e.g. block may allow activities such as reading work related documents. In some embodiments block may configure limited observer activities to be displayed differently from other activity information. For example limited observer activity information may be accessible via an icon which the device user may select at his or her discretion thereby protecting limited observer activity information from unwanted display in the presence of observers by giving the device user a degree of control over the display of limited observer activities.

At a Compare Current Observers block computing device may determine current observer information and computing device may compare the current observer information to observer information corresponding to any limited observer activities in the requested activity information e.g. as described above in connection with block . Block may allow for returning unrestricted activity information when current observers match allowed observers while restricting returned activity information when current observers do not match allowed observers. Whether or not current observers match allowed observers embodiments that compare current observers are effective to restrict activity information by subjecting returned activity information to current observer comparison. In some embodiments block may for example avoid certain viewing suggestions on a TV when observers are present to avoid the observers seeing private tastes in a TV interface visible to all.

At a Device User Permission block computing device may e.g. restrict activity information provided in response to the request from block by displaying a permission UI comprising a request for device user permission to provide the requested activity information in response to the request. Block may restrict returned activity information when device user permission is not granted via the permission UI while block may allow returning unrestricted activity information when device user permission is granted via the permission UI. Whether or not device user permission is granted via the permission UI embodiments that present the permission UI effectively restrict activity information by subjecting returned activity information to device user permission.

At an Automatically Provide Requested Activity Information block computing device may automatically provide the requested activity information in response to the request received at block subject to restrictions as applied at block when the requested activity information comprises a limited observer activity as determined at block . Automatically providing the requested activity may be accomplished e.g. by operation of activity API or other automated process.

Applications may make use of activity API for example to avoid making inappropriate activity recommendations. Such protections are particularly interesting if one considers the Bring Your Own Device BYOD to work trend and the fact that many employers may have applications on employee devices. An employer may want to implement observer filtered activity recommendations as described herein to avoid unwanted information about an employee s limited observer activities. Some embodiments may protect employee privacy making employees more likely to accept employer provided contextual applications while also protecting the employer from lawsuits related to inappropriate discovery storage or use of private employee information.

In blocks A are illustrated as including blocks being performed sequentially e.g. with block A first and block last. It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

In embodiments of OFARS configured to support observer information requests according to and OFARS may collect observer information comprising identifications of observers proximal to device user at a plurality of observer collection events. Observer collection events may comprise e.g. activity based observer collection events periodic observer collection events and or requested observer collection events. Activity based observer collection events may correspond to device user activities e.g. for which activity information may be collected by activity information collector . Periodic observer collection events may comprise e.g. observer collection events performed at periodic time intervals such as every minute every half hour every hour etc. Requested observer collection events may comprise e.g. observer collection requests received at observer API e.g. from application . In some embodiments observer collection events may be triggered by detected changes in observers surrounding computing device and or detected changes in familiar observers surrounding computing device as may be detected using the observer detection and or familiarity filter technologies described herein.

In embodiments of OFARS configured to support observer information requests according to and OFARS may be configured to store collected observer information from the plurality of observer collection events. OFARS may but need not necessarily collect and store activity information corresponding to each of the plurality of observer collection events to produce activity and observer information . When OFARS stores activity and observer information limited observer activities may be identified as described herein.

At a Receive Observer Information Request block A computing device may receive an observer data request e.g. a request from application received at observer API . The observer data request may comprise a request for observers present at one or more specific observer collection events or at observer collection events of a specified type. For example the observer data request may comprise a request for observer data from all observer collection events in the week or other time interval preceding the observer data request the observer data request may comprise a request for observer data from a specific observer collection event the observer data request may comprise a request for observer data from all observer collection events requested by application or the observer data request may comprise a request for observer data from all observer collection events corresponding to a particular activity.

At an Automatically Provide Requested Observer Information block computing device may automatically provide in response to the observer information request received at block A requested observer information corresponding to the observer collection event s identified in the observer information request. Observer API may be adapted to provide the requested observer information such as identifiers for observers or observer devices detected at each observer collection event specified in an observer information request. Where numbers of observers are collected without observer identification observer API may be adapted to provide number s of observers present at each observer collection event specified in an observer information request. Application may use returned observer information for any purpose e.g. to perform analysis of observer and activity correlations to identify limited observer activities and or to make observer filtered activity recommendations as described herein. In some embodiments block may automatically provide in response to the observer data request received at block A identifications of current observers along with requested observer information.

In blocks B are illustrated as including blocks being performed sequentially e.g. with block B first and block last. It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

At a Determine Whether Requested Observer Information Comprises Limited Observer Activity Information block computing device may optionally determine whether requested observer information comprises limited observer activity information. For example block may determine whether observer collection events specified in the observer approval request correspond to identified limited observer activities. If so then block may be followed by block . If not then block may be followed by block . The application of block may therefore filter for limited observer activities to provide observer approvals for any observer approval requests not relating to limited observer activities and to proceed with comparing current observers at block for any observer approval requests relating to limited observer activities.

At a Compare Current Observers block computing device may collect current observer information and may compare the current observer information to stored observer information for the observer collection events specified in the observer approval request as received at block B. In embodiments comprising block block may compare the current observer information to the stored observer information for any limited observer activities identified at block . Block may be followed by block .

At an Automatically Provide Indication of Current Observer Match block computing device may automatically provide in response to the observer approval type observer information request received at block B an indication of whether current observer information matches stored observer information corresponding to the one or more observer collection events identified in the observer approval request. For example observer API may automatically return indications to application in response to observer approval requests from application .

In embodiments including block block may provide a true indication i.e. observer approval regardless of current observers when the observer approval request does not involve observer information corresponding to limited observer activities. Block may also provide a true indication when the observer approval request does involve observer information corresponding to limited observer activities and when current observers match the observers for any identified limited observer activities. Block may provide a false indication when the observer approval request does involve observer information corresponding to limited observer activities and when current observers do not match the observers for an identified limited observer activity.

In embodiments not including block block may compare current observers at block for all observer approval requests received at block B regardless of whether observer approval requests relate to observer information for limited observer activities. Block may provide a true indication when current observers match the observers for collection events identified in the observer approval request and block may provide a false indication when current observers do not match the observers for collection events identified in the observer approval request. In some embodiments outlier observer information may be removed from collected observer information prior to comparing collected observer information with current observers.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disc DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly inter actable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically inter actable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art may translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While certain example techniques have been described and shown herein using various methods devices and systems it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter also may include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

