---

title: Providing control information to a multimedia server
abstract: A method may include receiving, at a mobile computing device comprising a processor, input identifying control information to be sent from the mobile computing device to a media server. The method may include determining, at the mobile computing device, whether the computing device is sending a media stream to the media server. In response to determining that the mobile computing device is sending a media stream to the media server, the control information may be sent from the mobile computing device to the media server without interrupting the media stream by embedding the control information in the media stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350779&OS=09350779&RS=09350779
owner: WOWZA MEDIA SYSTEMS, LLC
number: 09350779
owner_city: Golden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150216
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 151 108 filed on Jan. 9 2014 and entitled Providing Control Information to a multimedia server now U.S. Pat. No. 8 990 408 the content of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The popularity of the Internet coupled with the ever increasing capabilities of personal mobile electronic devices has provided users with the ability to enjoy as well as to generate for others to enjoy multimedia content almost anytime and anywhere. For example users may receive streams corresponding to live and video on demand VOD content e.g. television shows and movies at personal electronic devices such as computers mobile phones and tablet computers. Further users may use a personal electronic device to capture and stream live events e.g. sports events to other users.

Generally when a stream is provided to a server the server should have instructions on how to process the stream. There are instances however when a user through an oversight for example may not have provided any all or proper instructions to a server before the server begins to receive the stream. In such instances the user may have to stop a streaming application that is sending a stream to the server access the server and manually configure the server to process the stream. After manually configuring the server the user may restart or resume the streaming application.

The present disclosure is directed to techniques of providing instructions or control information to a server regarding how the server is to process a stream e.g. an event that is being streamed to the server . The control information may be provided to the server before or during the streaming of the event. Before the streaming of the event the control information may be provided to the server in a file or during connection establishment between the server and a user device.

During the streaming of an event control information may be provided to the server by use of a variety of methods. For example the control information may be embedded into the stream being sent to the server without interrupting communication of the ongoing stream. The server may detect parse and act on the embedded control information without interrupting output of the stream to viewer devices. Another method of providing control information after streaming has begun includes establishing a new connection with the server in addition to the original connection over which the stream is being provided to the server. The control information may be provided over the new connection while the stream continues to be provided to the server over the original connection.

When the server receives control information from a device the server will begin to process selected or all streams from the device in accordance with the control information. Thus when newly sent control information is received by a server during communication of a stream the server begins to process the stream in accordance with the newly sent control information. The newly sent control information may include new video processing parameters e.g. transcoding parameters transrating parameters etc. digital video recorder DVR parameters or other types of control information.

The personal electronic device may be a computing device such as a laptop computer a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet computer etc. depicts an exemplary block diagram of the personal electronic device . The personal electronic device includes one or more processors and one or more network interfaces . The one or more network interfaces may include input interface s and output interface s that are configured to receive data and to send data respectively. In a particular embodiment the one or more network interfaces may be wired and or wireless interfaces that enable the personal electronic device to transfer and receive data via a network such as a local area network LAN or the Internet. For example the one or more network interfaces may include an Ethernet interface a wireless interface compatible with an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 e.g. Wi Fi protocol and or a wireless interface capable of transferring data over a third generation 3G connection or a fourth generation 4G connection e.g. a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax connection or a Long Term Evolution LTE connection .

The personal electronic device may also include one or more cameras or other video capture devices and a microphone or other audio capture device to capture live video and or audio events. The personal electronic device may contain a storage device for storing captured events as well as software programs and or data used by the personal electronic device . In a particular embodiment the storage device may include one or more random access memory RAM devices read only memory ROM devices hard drives solid state drives and or other devices that may be used to store data.

The personal electronic device may further include one or more encoders decoders and a distributed encoding configuration module each of which may be implemented using hardware and or software e.g. instructions executable by the one or more processors . The one or more encoders may be used to encode data that is to be transferred to the media server and the one or more decoders may be used to decode encoded data received from the media server . The encoded data may represent a media stream or a portion thereof and may include audio and or video data. In a particular embodiment a video portion of the stream may be encoded by the one or more encoders using an Advanced Video Coding AVC codec decoder codec also known as H.264 and the audio portion of the stream may be encoded using an Advanced Audio Coding AAC codec. H.264 is a standard for video compression used for recording compressing and distributing high definition video. AAC is a standardized compression and encoding format for digital audio. In alternate embodiments different video and audio codecs may be used.

The distributed encoding configuration module may be part of a software application provided by a vendor of the media server and or may be downloaded by a user of the personal electronic device . The distributed encoding configuration module may generate a graphical user interface GUI and may send the GUI to an output device e.g. a display device of the personal electronic device . A user may interact with the GUI via one or more input devices e.g. a keyboard a mouse a touchscreen etc. .

The GUI includes camera buttons . The camera buttons provide a quick method of determining a status of different components of the one or more cameras as well as a simplified method of changing the status of the components. For example the personal electronic device may include a front facing camera and a rear facing camera either of which may be used to capture a live event. Alternatively or in addition the personal electronic device may include a flash e.g. light source to assist video capture of a live event. The camera buttons may include a button in which the status of the flash is indicated. When the button is selected e.g. pressed or touched the status of the flash may be changed from one state to another. For example if the status of the flash is off as shown in the GUI selecting the button changes the status of the flash to on . Conversely if the status of the flash is on selecting the button changes the status of the flash from on to off .

A button enables a user to toggle between the front facing camera and the rear facing camera to capture video. Specifically if the rear facing camera is active as shown in the GUI selecting the button deactivates the rear facing camera and activates the front facing camera to capture video. If on the other hand the front facing camera is active selecting the button deactivates the front facing camera and activates the rear facing camera to capture video.

The GUI also includes a bitrate button . Within the bitrate button may be displayed a particular bitrate that is to be used to encode a media stream. Selecting the bitrate button may enable a user to choose a bitrate from a plurality of available bitrates e.g. from a menu . The newly chosen bitrate is then displayed within the bitrate button .

The GUI further includes a server button . When the server button is selected a drop down menu or server GUI may be displayed. illustrates a representative server GUI . The server GUI includes a done button a host option an application option and a login option . When the host option is selected a user is given an opportunity to choose a media server with which the personal electronic device is to communicate. The media server may be chosen by name and or internet protocol IP address. Hence upon selecting the host option a list of IP addresses and or server names may be displayed and the user may select from the list of displayed servers or may manually enter a particular name or IP address for the server. In addition the user may be presented with a list of port numbers to choose from. The chosen port number is used for communication between the personal electronic device and the media server . For example the port may be a transmission control protocol TCP port or a user datagram protocol UDP port of the media server and or the personal electronic device . If the user does not choose a port number then a default port may be used. For example TCP port 1935 may be used as a default port when TCP is used to communicate with the media server .

After selecting the application option the user may enter an application name for the media stream. The application name may represent data used by a server to configure a particular stream or set of streams. The configuration information sent from a capture encoding device to a server may configure a single application. For example when a capture encoding device is streaming to an application named live the sent configuration information may only apply to the live application hosted by the server and not to any of the other applications hosted by the server. In a particular embodiment the application name is included in a portion of a uniform resource locator URL that can be used to view the media stream or a version thereof . Selecting the login option provides an opportunity to enter a user name and password for server authentication purposes. Information entered via the server GUI may be used to establish a connection to the media server .

In a particular embodiment a cloud based server instance may be initialized if a user does not have a preconfigured server available to receive and process the media stream. For example the server GUI may include an additional option that causes the personal electronic device to request a cloud based media server to be initialized. Alternatively or in addition a cloud based server may be initialized e.g. automatically or in response to confirming user input when the IP address port user name and or password are not provided or are erroneous. A cloud based media server may also be used as a backup media server if the personal electronic device encounters a problem establishing a connection to the server .

To illustrate the user may select a Stream to cloud option . The user may be prompted to log in to or register for a cloud based media server product or service from within the streaming application or from a web browser launched by the streaming application . For example the user may have an account that includes billing information for use of the cloud based media server. Alternatively login may not be required e.g. for a free cloud based media server . The streaming application executing on the personal electronic device may communicate with a network device e.g. a web server to provision or initiate a cloud based media server. The personal electronic device may receive a playback URL from the network device. For example the playback URL may be received within the streaming application or via a side channel message such as an e mail a short message service SMS message etc. A user may distribute the playback URL to enable other users to view the media stream or a version thereof from the cloud based media server.

After server information has been entered or a cloud based server has been configured the user may select the done button to return to the GUI of . The GUI includes an options button . When the options button is selected a drop down menu or options GUI may be displayed. illustrates a representative options GUI . The options GUI includes a done button a stream option that includes a video only button an audio only button an audio video button a video settings option a video size option an auto restart button having an on position and an off position a filter option and a profile option .

To indicate that the stream to be transferred to a server e.g. the server is a video stream having both a video and an audio portion a user may select the audio video button . If the user wants to transfer only video data or only audio data to the server the user may select the video only button or the audio only button respectively. After selecting the video settings option the user may choose a frame rate e.g. a number of frames per second fps and a key frame interval used to encode the media stream to be sent to the server. The user may also choose a transport protocol e.g. TCP UDP etc. to be used to send the media stream to server.

After selecting the video size option the user may choose a video size e.g. resolution for the stream. Video sizes may include 480 360 640 360 640 480 720p a high definition format or another size. When the auto restart button is set to on the personal electronic device automatically resumes streaming to the server after re establishment of a lost connection between the personal electronic device and the server. When the auto restart button is set to off the personal electronic device does not automatically resume streaming until specifically instructed to do so by the user. The filter option enables the user to indicate whether a filter is to be used when capturing a live event and if so which filter to use. The filters that may be used include but are not limited to black and white B W blur and B W blur.

After selecting the profile option the user may indicate whether a profile is to be used to provide control information to the media server and if so which profile to use. A profile as explained further herein may correspond to a set of control parameters in a file stored on the media server . Alternatively a profile or a portion thereof may be provided to the media server during streaming. In a particular embodiment a profile includes transcoding parameters transrating parameters and or adaptive bitrate ABR streaming parameters as further described herein.

The user may select the done button to return to the GUI of . In addition the GUI includes a send start encoding button and an auto record button . The send start encoding button when selected instructs the personal electronic device to establish a connection with the media server begin capturing audio and or video data and start transmitting a media stream and or send control information to the media server . In a particular embodiment when a stream is being sent to the media server unless the media server is specifically instructed to store the stream on a persistent basis e.g. to record the stream for video on demand VOD or video playback the media server does not store a copy of the media stream. The auto record button may enable the user to instruct the media server to record the stream. Moreover the auto record button may be selected after streaming has begun thereby enabling the user to instruct the media server to record the media stream without having to interrupt the streaming process and login to the media server using a browser. In a particular embodiment the user may also enter a name e.g. file name for the recorded version of the stream stored at the media server and or security settings associated with the recorded version of the stream e.g. encryption settings an access password etc. 

Thus the GUIs and include options to define various local parameters e.g. audio only video size key frame interval etc. and remote parameters e.g. auto record profiles etc. that are to be used to encode process and deliver a stream. For example when ABR streaming is supported by the media server the GUI for example may include options to define the ABR renditions of a stream to be generated by the media server . Adaptive streaming enables a computing device to request different versions or renditions of a stream in response to changes in network conditions. Changes in network conditions may occur due to various reasons. For example a viewer may view a media stream provided by the media server using a computing device such as a smartphone. The smartphone may experience different connection speeds due to the user moving from one physical location to another changing from a 3G network to a 4G network or vice versa network congestion etc. When connection speed decreases the consumer s smartphone may request a lower quality rendition of the media stream e.g. lower video bitrate audio bitrate resolution frame rate etc. to compensate for the connection speed degradation so that smooth playback of the media stream may be maintained. Conversely when connection speed increases the consumer s smartphone may request a higher quality rendition of the media stream e.g. higher video bitrate audio bitrate resolution frame rate etc. from the media server . To support adaptive streaming the media server may divide each rendition of the media stream into multiple chunks that are key frame aligned. Each rendition may have a different combination of video bitrate audio bitrate resolution frame rate protocol etc. In a particular embodiment the various parameters for each adaptive streaming rendition to be generated by the media server are stored in a profile. Thus by selecting a particular profile via the profile option the user may instruct the media server as to which combination of ABR renditions are to be generated by the media server .

It should be noted that the various parameters and options described herein are for example only and not to be considered limiting. To illustrate many different parameters and options may be presented to the user via the GUIs and . The parameters and options may include but are not limited to frame sizes bitrates video coders decoders CODECs audio CODECs audio sampling rates number of audio channels parameters of adaptive streaming groups e.g. input indicating that renditions A B and C are for mobile devices renditions X Y and Z are for desktop laptop computers and renditions M and N are for set top boxes STBs etc. As further examples a user may be provided options to specify digital rights management DRM settings particular times that a stream is to be made available to a user particular geographic locations that viewers are to be located in to view the stream etc.

Returning to the media server may include one or more processors and various components that are executable by the one or more processors . The media server may correspond to or include software application s that perform media serving or processing hardware systems e.g. servers that support or perform media serving and processing or any combination thereof. Thus various operations described with reference to the media server or components thereof may be implemented using hardware software e.g. instructions executable by the one or more processors or any combination thereof. In a particular embodiment one or more operations and or components described with reference to the media server may correspond to operations and or components of a cloud based media server e.g. a media server available as software as a service SaaS .

The media server may include one or more network interfaces . For example the one or more network interfaces may include input interface s and output interface s that are configured to receive data and to send data respectively. In a particular embodiment the one or more network interfaces may be wired and or wireless interfaces that enable the media server to transfer and receive data via a network such as the Internet. For example the one or more network interfaces may include an Ethernet interface a wireless interface compatible with an IEEE 802.11 e.g. Wi Fi protocol or other wired or wireless interfaces.

The media server may also include encoder s and decoder s each of which may be implemented using hardware and or software e.g. instructions executable by the one or more processors . The decoder s may decode a stream e.g. an event being streamed from the personal electronic device to generate a decoded stream. The encoder s may re encode the decoded stream e.g. in accordance with instructions received from a user of the personal electronic device to generate one or more second encoded streams. In a particular embodiment the one or more second encoded streams are ABR renditions that may have larger or smaller bitrates frame sizes etc. as compared to the original stream from the personal electronic device . The media server may stream the ABR renditions to destination devices such as one or more of computing devices .

The transcoder s may enable the media server to provide adaptive bitrate streaming in real time e.g. on the fly or near real time. Data storage device s may be used to store streamed events e.g. in response to selection of the auto record button of . The data storage device s may also buffer chunks of an ABR rendition and store software programs and or data used by the media server e.g. a file such as an extensible markup language XML file that includes a profile selected via the profile option of . The data storage device s may include one or more random access memory RAM devices read only memory ROM devices hard drive s solid state drive s etc.

The computing devices may include devices that are configured to receive media stream s from the media server . For example the computing devices may include one or more computer systems such as desktops laptops etc. The computing devices may also include one or more televisions TVs TV set top boxes smartphones and tablet computers . In a particular embodiment the media server is configured to send media streams to other media server s such as edge servers of a content delivery network CDN .

During operation at the system a user of the personal electronic device may activate a streaming application. The streaming application e.g. including the distributed encoding configuration module may display configuration GUI s such as the GUIs and . Upon receiving configuration input via the configuration GUI s the distributed encoding configuration module may determine whether the configuration information is directed to a local device e.g. the personal electronic device or directed to a remote system e.g. the media server . Local device control information may be provided to appropriate modules of the personal electronic device . For example when the user enters server connection parameters e.g. IP address port number etc. the distributed encoding configuration module may provide the server connection parameters to a network interface of the personal electronic device for use in establishing a connection to the media server . As another example local encoding parameters entered by the user may be provided to the encoder s . As another example when the user enters video settings information for the one or more cameras such information may be provided to the one or more cameras or a controller thereof .

When the user provides control information for the media server the personal electronic device may provide the control information to the media server in a plurality of different methods depending on whether a media stream is already being streamed to the media server . When a media stream is not already being provided the distributed encoding configuration module may transfer control information to the media server as a part of connection establishment e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP connection establishment between the personal electronic device and the media server .

To establish a connection with the media server the distributed encoding configuration module may use the server name or IP address provided via the host option of . The distributed encoding configuration module may also use the user name and password entered via the login option of . Further the distributed encoding configuration module may use the application name provided by the user via the application option of . The distributed encoding configuration module may also provide user provided control information to the media server during connection establishment. For example if the user turns on recording via the auto record button an HTTP request message sent to the media server during connection establishment may indicate that the server is to activate a digital video recorder DVR module. For example the HTTP connection request may include an autorecord true statement. The HTTP connection request may be generated and sent in response to selection of the send start encoding button of . An example of an HTTP request is further described with reference to .

If control information is to be provided to the media server after streaming has begun the distributed encoding configuration module may transfer control information to the media server by opening a separate e.g. second connection e.g. a side channel or back channel between the personal electronic device and the media server . In a particular embodiment the separate connection is an HTTP connection that is opened by using a representational state transfer REST request. REST is a stateless architecture that can be run over HTTP. Each REST request may include e.g. transfer information e.g. state that a server uses to complete the request. For example completing a REST request may cause the server to access and process a file identified by the REST request such as an XML file or a JavaScript object notation JSON file JavaScript is a registered trademark of Oracle Corp. of Redwood City Calif. . An example of REST based transfer of control information is further described with reference to .

Alternatively once streaming has begun control information may be provided to the media server without opening a separate connection. For example the control information e.g. autorecord true may be embedded into or intermixed with the stream data. To illustrate the control information may be included in a packet that is sent from the personal electronic device to the media server as part of a sequence of packets. In a particular embodiment the media server parses the stream data received from the personal electronic device for particular control indicators e.g. flags that indicate the presence of control information in the stream data . For example the equal to character may be interpreted as a control indicator and statements that include e.g. autorecord true stream audio only frame rate 30 video size 352 288 profile profile7 etc. may be interpreted as control information. When the media server detects control information in the media stream the media server may process the control information and perform one or more operations based on the control information. For example in response to detecting autorecord true the media server may start recording the stream to the data storage device s . As another example in response to detecting profile profile7 the media server may begin processing the media stream e.g. generating ABR renditions according to information specified in a profile named profile7 . To illustrate profile7 may be a key or a file name of an XML or JSON file.

It should be noted that the description of the equal to character as a control indicator is for example only. In alternate embodiments a different control indicator may be used. Moreover in particular embodiments instead of using a control indicator control information may be provided in a particular location of packet s transmitted to the media server . For example if a packet includes or entirely consists of control information a specific bit or set of bits in a packet header may be set to a specific value to indicate that a data payload of the packet includes control information.

In a particular embodiment a user may have multiple profiles stored on the media server . For example the user may configure and store different profiles that are to be used in different scenarios. In certain instances control information in a first profile may automatically cause the media server to use e.g. switch to a second profile when a particular condition in the first profile becomes true . Similarly the second profile may automatically cause the media server to use a third profile or to revert to using the first profile when a condition in the second profile is true. To illustrate the first profile may identify a first set of ABR renditions that are to be used when the media stream received from the personal electronic device is a high definition HD stream and the second profile may identify a second set of ABR renditions to be used for standard definition SD streams. As an example the first profile may include a condition that causes the media server to switch to the second profile if the vertical resolution of the media stream drops to below 720 pixels and the second profile may include a condition that causes the media server to switch to the first profile if the vertical resolution of the media stream is greater than or equal to 720 pixels.

It will thus be appreciated that as described with reference to a user may provide control information to a server prior to connection establishment without having to switch from a streaming application to a different application executed by the personal electronic device . Further after streaming has begun the user device may provide control information to the server without interrupting the stream and without having to terminate the streaming application or switch to a different application. The user may provide control information to the server without involving a server administrator. In addition because control information may be provided to the server on a stream by stream basis users may not need administrative privileges for the server as a whole. Reducing the number of users that have administrative privileges to the server may enhance server security.

The HTTP request may include control information control info . As described with reference to the control information may include one or more commands such as a command to record a media stream. Multiple commands may be delimited by a delimiting character e.g. etc. . In a particular embodiment the control information includes a command to implement access control for the media stream. When access control e.g. digital rights management DRM control is active a media stream may not be accessed by a viewer unless the viewer or the viewer s device satisfied an access condition e.g. provides a correct authentication code .

When control information is being provided in the REST request an HTTP POST method may be used to provide the control information and or a file e.g. an XML file or a JSON object to the media server . When control information is to be retrieved e.g. from the file control info an HTTP GET method may be used. An HTTP PUT method may be used to add control information into a file and an HTTP DELETE method may be used to delete a profile or specific control information from a file. Thus the REST request may be considered as establishing a secondary connection between the personal electronic device and the media server as well as communicating control information via that secondary connection.

In an alternate embodiment instead of identifying a file a portion of the REST request e.g. control info may include state information that is to be processed by the media server e.g. autorecord true .

It should be noted that the use of HTTP and REST to provide control information is for example only and not to be considered limiting. In alternate embodiments other protocols such as Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Web Services Description Language WSDL etc. may be used to provide control information before or during streaming. Moreover a plurality of streaming protocols may be used to provide a media stream from the personal electronic device to the media server . Streaming protocols include but are not limited to real time transport protocol RTP real time messaging protocol RTMP and real time streaming protocol RTSP .

The method also includes determining whether the media stream is being sent to the media server via a first connection at . In response to determining that the media stream is being sent via the first connection the method includes sending the control information to the media server without interrupting communication of the media stream to the media server at . For example the control information may be embedded in the media stream and sent via the first connection. As another example a second connection to the media server may be established e.g. via a REST request such as the REST request of and the control information may be communicated via the second connection.

In response to determining that the media stream is not being sent via the first connection the method includes sending the control information to the media server during establishment of a connection between the computing device and the media server at . For example the control information may be included in a connection request such as the HTTP request of .

The method of may thus be used to send control information to a media server prior to sending a media stream to the media server or while the media stream is being sent to the media server without interrupting the media stream.

It should be noted that the order of steps illustrated in the flowchart of and described elsewhere herein are to be considered illustrative and not limiting. In alternate embodiments the order of steps may be different. Further one or more steps may be optional and or replaced by other steps. In addition one or more steps may be consolidated.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure one or more methods functions and modules described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and or parallel processing.

Particular embodiments can be implemented using a computer system executing a set of instructions that cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. A computer system may include a laptop computer a desktop computer a server computer a mobile phone a tablet computer a set top box a media player one or more other computing devices or any combination thereof. The computer system may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices. For example the computer system or components thereof can include or be included within any one or more of the personal electronic device of the media server of one or more of the computing devices of or any combination thereof.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The term system can include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

In a particular embodiment the instructions can be embodied in a computer readable or a processor readable device. The terms computer readable device and processor readable device include a single storage device or multiple storage devices such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The terms computer readable device and processor readable device also include any device that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein. For example a computer readable or processor readable device or storage device may include random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers a hard disk a removable disk a disc based memory e.g. compact disc read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage device. A computer readable or processor readable device is not a signal.

As used herein a live stream may differ from a video on demand VOD stream. A VOD stream originates from or corresponds to content that is available in its entirety at a stream source when a packet of the VOD stream is sent. For example a VOD stream may correspond to a movie or television show that is stored at a storage device. A live stream corresponds to content that is not available in its entirety when a packet of the live stream is sent. For example a live stream may be used to transmit audio and or video content corresponding to an event as the event is being captured e.g. in real time or near real time . Examples of such events may include but are not limited to in progress sporting events musical performances video conferences and webcam feeds. It should be noted that a live stream may be delayed with respect to the event being captured e.g. in accordance with government or industry regulations such as delay regulations enforced by the Federal Communications Commission FCC .

In a particular embodiment a method includes receiving at a computing device including a processor input identifying control information to be sent to a media server. The method also includes determining whether the computing device is sending a media stream to the media server. The method further includes in response to determining that the computing device is sending a media stream to the media server sending the control information to the media server without interrupting the media stream by embedding the control information in the media stream.

In another particular embodiment a computer readable storage device stores instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including receiving at a computing device input identifying control information to be sent to a media server. The control information is received while the computing device is sending a media stream to the media server via a first connection. The operations also include establishing a second connection between the computing device and the media server. The operations further include sending the control information to the media server via the second connection without interrupting communication of the media stream to the media server via the first connection.

In another particular embodiment an apparatus includes a processor and a memory storing instructions executable by the processor to perform operations including receiving at a computing device input identifying control information to be sent to a media server. The control information is associated with processing of the media stream by the media server. The operations also include determining whether the computing device is sending the media stream to the media server via a first connection. The operations further include in response to determining that the computing device is sending the media stream to the media server via the first connection sending the control information to the media server by embedding the control information in the media stream or by establishing a second connection to send the control information to the media server. The operations include in response to determining that the computing device is not sending the media stream to the media server via the first connection sending the control information to the media server connection establishment between the computing device and the media server.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present disclosure is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

