---

title: System for optimizing the monetization of outgoing video sessions of a contact center
abstract: Providing a video session from an agent of a contact center includes initiating by a contact center server an interactive video session to a customer computer, the interactive video session comprising a first video stream transmitted to the customer computer and the first video stream having an image size. The interactive video session also includes inserting an agent video portion within the first video stream, the agent video portion occupying a first part of the image size; providing an agent computer with a script related to a subject of the interactive video session; and inserting an automation within the first video stream; the automation occupying a second part of the image size. Input is received from the customer computer interacting with the automation; and based on the input, the script provided to the agent computer is modified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503680&OS=09503680&RS=09503680
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09503680
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151223
---
The present disclosure relates generally to operation of a contact center and more particularly to video sessions from the contact center.

Contact centers can involve providing customer service for inbound calls and for providing customer service by having agents place outbound calls. Such outbound calls can include a callback resulting from an earlier inbound call or incoming contact from a customer. Such outbound calls can for example also be a scheduled callback or can be a regularly occurring expert consultation. The callback or expert consultation has been traditionally limited to voice only communication but the inclusion of video in such callbacks has been increasing. The video communication can be one way in that the customer sees a video of the contact center agent but the agent does not necessarily receive a video feed from the customer. The video communication can also be two way in that the contact center agent receives a video feed from the customer and the customer receives a video feed of the agent.

One recent technology that provides two way video communication without requiring equipment or devices other than what is normally part of a consumer personal computer is known as WebRTC. WebRTC allows two appropriately enabled web browsers to participate in two way multimedia communications.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to a method of providing a video session from an agent of a contact center that includes initiating by a contact center computer an interactive video session to a customer computer the interactive video session comprising a first video stream transmitted to the customer computer and the first video stream having an image size. The method also includes inserting by the contact center computer an agent video portion within the first video stream the agent video portion occupying a first part of the image size providing by the contact center computer an agent computer with a script related to a subject of the interactive video session and inserting by the contact center computer an automation within the first video stream the automation occupying a second part of the image size. This method also includes receiving by the contact center computer input from the customer computer interacting with the automation and then based on the input modifying by the contact center computer the script provided to the agent computer.

Another aspect of the present disclosure relates to a contact center system for providing a video session from an agent computer within the contact center. This system includes a contact system server comprising a video stream mixer a computer readable storage medium storing executable instructions and a processor in communication with the computer readable storage medium. In particular thee processor when executing the executable instructions a initiates an interactive video session to a customer computer the interactive video session comprising a first video stream transmitted to the customer computer and the first video stream having an image size b inserts via the video stream mixer an agent video portion within the first video stream the agent video portion occupying a first part of the image size c provides an agent computer with a script related to a subject of the interactive video session d inserts via the video stream mixer an automation within the first video stream the automation occupying a second part of the image size e receives input from the customer computer interacting with the automation and f modifies the script provided to the agent computer based on the input.

Yet another aspect of the present disclosure relates to a contact center system for providing a video session from an agent computer within the contact center. The system includes a first storage device storing a first database comprising a plurality of profiles each profile associated with a respective customer computer and a second storage device storing a second database comprising a plurality of automations each automation comprising an interactive video experience embeddable into a video stream. The system also includes an agent computer a contact center server and a network medium interconnecting the agent computer the contact center server the first storage device and the second storage device. The agent computer includes a video stream transmitter that transmits an agent video stream and a display that displays an agent script. The contact system server includes a video stream mixer a computer readable storage medium storing executable instructions and a processor in communication with the computer readable storage medium. In particular the processor when executing the executable instructions a receives the agent video stream from the agent computer b initiates an interactive video session to a customer computer the interactive video session comprising a first video stream transmitted to the customer computer and the first video stream having an image size c inserts via the video stream mixing device an agent video portion within the first video stream the agent video portion comprising the received agent video stream and the agent video portion occupying a first part of the image size d transmits to the agent computer the agent script wherein contents of the agent script are related to a subject of the interactive video session e determines a particular one profile from the first database associated with the customer computer f selects an automation from the second database based on the particular one profile g inserts via the video stream mixing device the automation within the first video stream the automation occupying a second part of the image size h receives input from the customer computer interacting with the automation and i modifies the agent script transmitted to the agent computer based on the input.

The present disclosure will be illustrated below in conjunction with an exemplary communication system. Although well suited for use with e.g. a system having an ACD or other similar contact processing switch the present disclosure is not limited to any particular type of communication system switch or configuration of system elements. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed techniques may be used in any communication application in which it is desirable to provide improved contact processing.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material. 

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage and or transmission medium that participate in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

A digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the present disclosure is considered to include a tangible storage medium or distribution medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present disclosure are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the present disclosure is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated those individual aspects of the present disclosure can be separately claimed.

The term switch or server as used herein should be understood to include a PBX an ACD an enterprise switch or other type of communications system switch or server as well as other types of processor based communication control devices such as media servers computers adjuncts etc.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are described below with respect of an interactive video session that is a callback that was requested by a customer. However the interactive video session described herein may be beneficial in other scenarios as well. One example scenario is for when a customer has agreed to an offer of a free consultation from a financial or similar institution. Another example can be when a customer engages in regular remote face to face sessions with an expert advisor at a pre arranged time.

Although some embodiments are discussed with reference to client server architecture it is to be understood that the principles of the present disclosure apply to other network architectures. For example the present disclosure applies to peer to peer networks such as those envisioned by the Session Initiation Protocol SIP . In the client server model or paradigm network services and the programs used by end users to access the services are described. The client side provides a user with an interface for requesting services from the network and the server side is responsible for accepting user requests for services and providing the services transparent to the user. By contrast in the peer to peer model or paradigm each networked host runs both the client and server parts of an application program. Additionally the disclosure does not require the presence of packet or circuit switched networks.

Web Real Time Communications WebRTC represents an ongoing effort to develop industry standards for integrating real time communications functionality into web clients such as web browsers to enable direct interaction with other web clients. This real time communications functionality is accessible by web developers via standard markup tags such as those provided by version 5 of the Hypertext Markup Language HTML5 and client side scripting Application Programming Interfaces APIs such as JavaScript APIs. More information regarding WebRTC may be found in WebRTC APIs and RTCWEB Protocols of the HTML5 Real Time Web by Alan B. Johnston and Daniel C. Burnett 2Edition 2013 Digital Codex LLC which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

WebRTC provides built in capabilities for establishing real time video audio and or data streams in both point to point interactive sessions and multi party interactive sessions. The WebRTC standards are currently under joint development by the World Wide Web Consortium W3C and the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . Information on the current state of WebRTC standards can be found at e.g. http www.w3c.org and http www.ietf.org.

To establish a WebRTC interactive flow e.g. a real time video audio and or data exchange two WebRTC clients may retrieve WebRTC enabled web applications such as HTML5 JavaScript web applications from a WebRTC application server. Through the web applications the two WebRTC clients then engage in dialogue for initiating a peer connection over which the WebRTC interactive flow will pass. The initiation dialogue may include a media negotiation used to reach an agreement on parameters that define characteristics of the WebRTC interactive flow. Once the initiation dialogue is complete the WebRTC clients may then establish a direct peer connection with one another and may begin an exchange of media and or data packets transporting real time communications. The peer connection between the WebRTC clients typically employs the Secure Real time Transport Protocol SRTP to transport real time media flows and may utilize various other protocols for real time data interchange.

The WebRTC clients may be connected using a full mesh topology in which each WebRTC client participating in the real time communications establishes a peer connection with every other participating WebRTC client. In some circumstances though a full mesh topology may be prohibitively expensive in terms of network bandwidth and or computing resources. As an alternative to a full mesh topology each of the WebRTC clients may connect to a central media server which mixes and distributes the WebRTC interactive flows to the participating WebRTC clients. The media server may also provide various types of media processing functionality e.g. inserting announcements into recording switching and or redirecting WebRTC interactive flows as non limiting examples that are accessible by the WebRTC application.

Further the agent s browser may be enabled to communicate with the customer s browser over the network by the WebRTC layer with the help of web API . Further the WebRTC layer includes WebRTC Native API layer which is used for peer connections and helps in implementation of the proposals received from the web API . Further the WebRTC layer includes a session manager layer which is used to enable real time protocols for establishing and managing connections across the network .

The WebRTC layer includes three types of frameworks such as voice engine framework video engine framework and transport framework . The voice engine framework is used for the audio media chain from sound card to the network . It also helps in cancelling acoustic echo and in reduction of noise. The voice engine framework further includes an optional audio capture API for recording audio communications.

Further the video engine framework is used for the video media chain from camera of the device not shown having the agent s browser to the network and from the network to display screen not shown of the device. It also helps in helps in concealing effects of video jitter and packet loss on overall video quality. Moreover it also removes video noise from images captured by the camera. The video engine framework further includes an optional video capture API for recording video communications.

In addition the transport framework is used in peer to peer communication and its optional network I O API may facilitate management of inputs outputs of the agent or customer over the network . This WebRTC architecture enables the agent s browser to communicate with the customer s browser . In an embodiment the customer s browser may have a similar architecture as of the agent s browser .

When a call that is outgoing from the contact center is answered by a prospective customer the agent has limited opportunity to engage the customer s interest. In callback scenarios the customer will generally wish to limit the time spent with the agent to the topic of the original inbound call. Despite the fact that that the vendor may have additional offers or products that might be of interest these prospects can be lost due to the limited time allowed by the customer. Scheduled video callbacks and regular expert consultations via video are becoming more commonplace with the rise of disruptive video technologies such as WebRTC. As explained below these disruptive technologies offer a means to more fully exploit the opportunity afforded by the limited time available when contact center agents make outgoing scheduled callbacks.

In accordance with the principles of the present disclosure the content of an outgoing video session of a contact center is augmented with specially modified visual treatments and automations in order to make concurrent suggestions to a customer that are alternate or complementary to the one being discussed by the agent and uses information gleaned from the automations in real time to adjust the agent script.

A video composer a video stream mixer or other functionally equivalent software or device can insert an agent video portion within the first video stream. This portion of the video stream includes the video of the agent as the agent makes a presentation according to a script that an appropriate part of the contact center has provided the agent. The agent video portion occupies a first part of the entire image size of the video stream. The size of the agent video portion can be measured in terms of percentage of the entire image size of the video stream . Thus the agent video portion can occupy 20 of the video stream.

In step the computer video composer or similar software module can insert an automation within the video stream the automation occupying a second part of the image size. In step more than one automation can be inserted into the video stream with each automation occupying a respective portion of the video stream. Similar to the agent video portion a size of an automation can be measured as X of the entire image size.

Treatments can also be inserted into the video stream as well. A treatment may provide a web site address a toll free number textual information or similar types of visual information. An automation differs from a treatment in that the automation is constructed to elicit interactive feedback from the receiving customer. For example the automation may provide a menu of items and ask whether the customer is more interested in hearing about one of the menu items as compared to the present subject of the agent s presentation. The automation can elicit textual input mouse clicks screen touches numeric input from a mobile device keypad etc. One of ordinary skill will recognize that as meant in the present disclosure an automation is a visual interface element or an embeddable video experience that is constructed to interact with the customer such that the interaction provides feedback from the customer computer to the contact center computer during the video session. The subject matter of an automation can be related to the subject matter of the agent s presentation it can be ancillary to the agent s presentation it can be complimentary to the agent s presentation or it could be an alternative to the subject of the agent presentation.

In step feedback from the customer s interaction with an automation is received by the contact center such as by the server . Based on the received feedback the server of the contact center can modify in step the script that is being presently used by the agent. Thus based on real time feedback from the customer the agent is provided with a new or modified script that was changed based on the customer s feedback.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure the video session can include a second stream so that the agent is presented with video of the customer while the agent is making their presentation.

The flowchart of provides additional details for the method just described with respect to . In step as part of initiating the video session the server identifies the customer being called. The server can then extract a profile of that customer from a database of pre stored profiles. In this manner the extracted profile is a profile that is associated with the customer and the customer s computer. The profile may include demographic information such as gender age profession education level etc. The extracted profile may also be based on earlier interactions between the customer and the contact center .

Based on the subject matter of the agent s presentation one or more automations that are appropriate for the agent s presentation can be selected from a stored database of automations. The customer profile can also be used to select one or more automations as well. In step the customer profile is used to determine the size of each automation and the placement of each automation. The customer profile may include explicit information about a preferred location and size of any automation or the server can include an algorithm that determines automation size and placement based on one or more pieces of demographic information in the customer s profile. Thus the video stream transmitted to the customer is customized for that customer based on the extracted profile. The server can also select one or more session treatments in step based on the specific customer profile as well.

Accordingly in step the server can compose a video feed or video stream that includes an agent portion one or more automations and treatments that are sized and located based on a customer profile associated with the recipient of the video stream. This customized video stream is then transmitted to the customer computer as an interactive video session that includes a presentation by an agent.

As mentioned with respect to the customer through the customer s computer can interact with the automations such that feedback is generated and received by the contact center . In addition to that feedback the customer can also provide feedback about the automations and their respective size such that the contact center receives feedback in step that indicates the customer would like a an automation moved b the agent video portion size increased or decreased c an automation re sized or d a treatment resized or removed . Accordingly in step the module of the server that is composing or mixing the video stream can adjust the automations and treatments during the interactive video session.

The server can also access a database of different treatments and a database of different automations. The video composer of the server can use the customer profile to select different screen treatments and automations and then determine based on that profile how to locate and size those treatments and automations within the video stream.

An agent portion video may be located on the video image screen as well along with optional textual or graphic information that augments the video presentations. A slide show closed captioning a transcript graphs or supporting documentation are all examples of the auxiliary information that may be displayed. Finally one or more call treatments may be added to the image of the video stream. Much like the placement and size of the automations the one or more call treatments may be customized based on a user or customer profile.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the system collocated certain components of the system can be located remotely at distant portions of a distributed network such as a LAN and or the Internet or within a dedicated system. Thus it should be appreciated that the components of the system can be combined in to one or more devices such as a switch server and or adjunct or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network such as an analog and or digital telecommunications network a packet switch network or a circuit switched network. It will be appreciated from the preceding description and for reasons of computational efficiency that the components of the system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network of components without affecting the operation of the system. For example the various components can be located in a switch such as a PBX and media server gateway in one or more communications devices at one or more users premises or some combination thereof. Similarly one or more functional portions of the system could be distributed between a telecommunications device s and an associated computing device.

Furthermore it should be appreciated that the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links or any combination thereof or any other known or later developed element s that is capable of supplying and or communicating data to and from the connected elements. These wired or wireless links can also be secure links and may be capable of communicating encrypted information. Transmission media used as links for example can be any suitable carrier for electrical signals including coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics and may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Also while the flowcharts have been discussed and illustrated in relation to a particular sequence of events it should be appreciated that changes additions and omissions to this sequence can occur without materially affecting the operation of the invention.

A number of variations and modifications of the invention can be used. It would be possible to provide for some features of the invention without providing others.

For example in one alternative embodiment the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented in conjunction with a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element s an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hard wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit a programmable logic device or gate array such as PLD PLA FPGA PAL special purpose computer any comparable means or the like. In general any device s or means capable of implementing the methodology illustrated herein can be used to implement the various aspects of this invention. Exemplary hardware that can be used for the present invention includes computers handheld devices telephones e.g. cellular Internet enabled digital analog hybrids and others and other hardware known in the art. Some of these devices include processors e.g. a single or multiple microprocessors memory nonvolatile storage input devices and output devices. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

In yet another embodiment the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in conjunction with software using object or object oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively the disclosed system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and or efficiency requirements of the system the particular function and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized.

In yet another embodiment the disclosed methods may be partially implemented in software that can be stored on a storage medium executed on programmed general purpose computer with the cooperation of a WebRTC browser and memory a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as an applet JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or computer workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated measurement system system component or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and or method into a software and or hardware system.

Although the present invention describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. Other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are in existence and are considered to be included in the present invention. Moreover the standards and protocols mentioned herein and other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are periodically superseded by faster or more effective equivalents having essentially the same functions. Such replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalents included in the present invention.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present disclosure other and further embodiments of the present disclosure may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof. It is understood that various embodiments described herein may be utilized in combination with any other embodiment described without departing from the scope contained herein. Further the foregoing description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present disclosure.

