---

title: Command and control of devices and applications by voice using a communication base system
abstract: A first communication path for receiving a communication is established. The communication includes speech, which is processed. A speech pattern is identified as including a voice-command. A portion of the speech pattern is determined as including the voice-command. That portion of the speech pattern is separated from the speech pattern and compared with a second speech pattern. If the two speech patterns match or resemble each other, the portion of the speech pattern is accepted as the voice-command. An operation corresponding to the voice-command is determined and performed. The operation may perform an operation on a remote device, forward the voice-command to a remote device, or notify a user. The operation may create a second communication path that may allow a headset to join in a communication between another headset and a communication device, several headsets to communicate with each other, or a headset to communicate with several communication devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514754&OS=09514754&RS=09514754
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 09514754
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150406
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 011 268 filed Jan. 25 2008 by Geldbach et al. and titled Command and Control of Devices and Applications by Voice Using a Communication Base System which claims priority from the following U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 003 519 filed on Nov. 16 2007 by Geldbach et al. and titled Command and Control of Devices and Applications by Voice Using a Communication Base System both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The principles of the present invention relate generally to an improved communication system and in particular to an improved system and method for interaction with several systems and telecommunication devices. Still more particularly the principles of the present invention relate to a communication base system and method for command and control of devices and applications by voice using the communication base system.

A communication device is a device that may place or receive a telecommunication. The term communication devices refers to the collection of all devices usable for telecommunication. For example a communication device can be the familiar telephone a computer with a telecommunication enabling software application which are commonly known as softphones a telephone like device that works over data networks instead of a plain old telephone system POTS line a wireless or cellular phone or any other device used for telecommunication. A communication device is any one of these communication devices. Communication devices may also include devices and applications capable of communicating in other ways for example by text messaging instant messaging including text audio video images and documents. Communication devices may further include radio transceivers embedded in appliances computers as well as automobiles.

Presently wearable devices are available that a user can use for interacting with a variety of systems and devices. Some examples of such wearable devices are wired and wireless headsets that include at least a speaker and a microphone. A user may connect these headsets to a device using wires or a wireless protocol such as Bluetooth in order to interact with that device. The user can wear the headset and engage in voice telecommunication when the headset is connected with a communication device. The user may also couple the headset with a computer and engage in a voice over Internet Protocol VOIP telecommunication using a softphone software application.

As some more examples a user may use a headset to interact with a gaming console such as Xbox manufactured by Microsoft Corporation or PlayStation manufactured by Sony Corporation. A user may use a headset for dictating a document to speech to text software. Wearable headsets integrating a microphone and a speaker are presently used for a variety of activities with a variety of devices.

However headsets and other devices for similar purposes are presently able to interact with one system or device at a time. The interaction with one device may be over a wired or wireless connection. In one example when using a Bluetooth headset with a first device such as a landline phone the user has to disassociate e.g. disconnect the headset from a second device such as a mobile phone and associate the headset with the first device. Of course the headset would need to be pre registered with each device before associating the headset with either device.

In order to enable several devices such as headsets to communicate with several communication devices over a range of types of networks simultaneously the illustrative embodiments provide a method computer usable program product and system for command and control of devices and applications by voice using a communication base system. A first communication path for receiving a communication is established. The communication includes speech. The speech is processed. A speech pattern is identified as including a voice command. A portion of the speech pattern is determined as including the voice command. That portion of the speech pattern is separated from the speech pattern and compared with a second speech pattern. If the two speech patterns match or resemble each other the portion of the speech pattern is accepted as the voice command. An operation corresponding to the voice command is determined and performed.

The voice command may be received during the communication as a part of the speech. Performing the operation may be performing the operation on a remote device or establishing a second communication path between a first device that sends the voice command and second device.

The second communication path may allow a headset to join in a communication between another headset and a communication device a plurality of headsets to communicate with each other a headset to communicate with a plurality of communication devices or any combination thereof. The operation may also forward the voice command to a remote device or notify a user.

A communication base system or simply a base system as described in the co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 985 766 entitled Communication Base System and Method of Using the Same filed on Nov. 16 2007 and which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference may be used for voice commands using the headsets. A voice command or a verbal command is a command or instruction given to a system using voice or speech.

Illustrative embodiments recognize that a user would like to be able to use a single headset for communicating with more than one device without having to engage in a process of disassociating the headset from a previous device and associating the headset with a new device. The illustrative embodiments further recognize that several users each with a variation of a headset may wish to communicate with a common communication device. A user with a headset may wish to engage in communication with one or more other users with headsets one or more communication devices or any combination thereof using a communication base system. The user may wish to engage in such communication by having the communication base system perform the desired functions through voice commands.

Therefore a system that is capable of processing voice commands for allowing one or more headsets to communicate with one or more other headsets and communication devices without the user having to perform an association and disassociation of the headset with each device may be useful. Such a system may be further useful by processing voice commands for performing other actions on applications running locally on the system or remotely on communication devices. The illustrative embodiments describe such a system and methods of using that system.

Wired or wireless headsets are just some examples of wearable devices that users use for communication purposes. Many devices facilitate a user s communication with a computer or another device in a manner similar to that of a headset. For example a desk microphone and a desk speaker may facilitate a user s communication with a computer in a manner similar to the wearable headset. For the clarity of the description below the illustrative embodiments are described with respect to a headset. However the headsets are not limiting on the illustrative embodiments and a particular implementation may use any other device that may communicate with communication devices such as a headset may communicate with those communication devices.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of components of a base system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Base system may include user side communication and voice command interface interface . Interface may be a software component a hardware component or a combination thereof. Interface may enable communication between base system and one or more headsets that a user may use for voice communications as well as issuing voice commands.

Base system may further include network side command and response interface interface . Interface may also be a software component a hardware component or a combination thereof. Interface may enable communication between base system and one or more communication devices. A user interfacing with base system using interface may be able to send voice commands to a communication device interfacing with base system via interface . Furthermore base system may communicate a command whether in the form of a voice command a software invocation a hardware interrupt or any other suitable form to communication devices using interface .

Base system may further include processing component . Processing component may be a digital signal processing DSP component or any other type of processing component that is capable of processing voice commands. User interface component may allow a user to program configure access or otherwise manipulate base system . Data storage component may store information used in communications between headsets and communication devices that base system may establish. For example data storage component may store information pertaining to configuration and operation of base system interface parameters of various headsets and communication devices instructions for processing a set of voice commands and any other information that may be used in a particular implementation of base system .

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of application components of a base system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Base system may be similar to base system in . Base system may communicate with headset as well as any number of other headsets. Headset may engage in voice communication using base system or issue voice command which may be directed to base system or a communication device such as any of communication devices and .

Call management component may facilitate voice communication between a headset and a communication device such as between headset and communication device via base system . Local applications may be one or more applications executing on base system . For example a recording application executing on base system may be a local application in local applications . Some other examples of local applications may be logging screening displaying reporting notifying configuring updating and managing applications.

Command processing may be a processing engine for processing voice commands such as voice command . Command processing executing on base system may be able to understand voice commands. A user using headset or another device capable of receiving the user s voice may speak a voice command such as voice command that base system may be able to recognize by processing the voice command using command processing . The user may speak only the voice command speak the voice command with ambient sounds or speak the voice command during a conversation with another party when the conversation is occurring through the base system. The base system may receive the voice command as a speech pattern and apply processing such as digital signal processing to the speech to recognize that the speech includes a voice command.

The base system may be trained to recognize a set of voice commands from a set of users in those users voices. A set of voice commands is one or more voice commands. A set of users is one or more users. For example one or more users may submit their speech patterns for the same or different voice commands. The users may correlate those voice commands at the base system with specific operations they want the base system to execute when they speak one of those voice commands. For example a user may train the base system to recognize the address word Base followed by a command such as connect with cell phone. Another user may train the base system to recognize just the command connect to my cell phone . Both users may then correlate their respective commands to the operation of connecting their respective headsets with their respective cell phones. Many other commands and formats of commands are conceivable based on the principles described in this disclosure. For example a user may configure a phrase in a language other than English a pneumonic or a noun as a voice command for a specific operation.

In an alternative embodiment rather than or in addition to the voice commands a dual tone multi frequency DTMF recognition engine may operate to recognize and respond to DTMF signals to perform certain functions. For example pressing the number 1 key on a headset or another device that may include a keypad may send a DTMF signal to the base system to perform a function. Similarly pressing the number 2 key may send a DTMF signal to the base system for performing a different function. For example pressing 1 may cause the base unit to connect a call pressing 2 may cause the base unit to disconnect a call.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a first type of command processing in a base system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Base system may be similar to base system in . Headset and may each be a headset similar to headset in or a comparable device capable of sending and receiving voice communications.

A user of headset may be able to interact verbally with a user of headset via base system . For example headset may accept voice command from the first user that may instruct base system to establish communication path between headset and headset . Note that headset headset or both headsets may be engaged in communications with other communication devices at the time of voice command . For example the first user may be using the headset for a telephone conversation with a party. The second user using headset may be engaged in a voice interactive game on a gaming console. The first user may issue voice command during the telephone conversation such as base . . . connect with John . The base system may establish communication between the first user and John the second user such that neither the party that the first user is conversing with nor the gaming console that John may be interacting with receives any signals corresponding to the conversation between the first user and John that follows voice command . That conversation may occur on communication path established as a result of voice command . The first user may speak another voice command to terminate the sidebar conversation with John and resume normal conversation with the party.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a second type of command processing in a base system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Base system may be similar to base system in . Headset may be a headset similar to headset in or a comparable device capable of sending and receiving voice communications. Communication device and may each be a communication device similar to any of communication devices in .

A user of headset may be able to issue voice commands to the communication base system. For example a user may be able to instruct base system using voice command to connect the user s headset with communication device which may be the user s cell phone as well as communication device which may be the user s desk phone. Base system may then establish communication path so the user may be able to switch between the two conversations on those two communication devices. As another example of using the illustrative embodiment in this figure the user may instruct base system using voice command to connect headset to the user s mobile phone as well as the user s computer. Base system may then establish communication path so that the user may interact with a VOIP application on the computer as well as have a voice conversation on the user s mobile phone. As another example the user may be able to use voice command to cause base system to perform certain base system operations such as by using local applications in . Examples of base system operations may be increasing the volume of a call placing a call on hold squelching the noise on a call or any other function a particular base system may be able to support.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a third type of command processing in a base system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Base system may be similar to base system in . Headset and may each be a headset similar to headset in or a comparable device capable of sending and receiving voice communications. Communication device may be a communication device similar to any of communication devices in .

A user of headset may be able to issue voice commands to base system . For example a user may be able to instruct base system using voice command to connect headset into a conversation that headset may be having using communication device which may be the user s cell phone. Base system may then establish communication path so the users of headset and may both be able to jointly communicate with communication device .

A user of headset may also be able to issue voice command to communication device accessible through base system . For example a user may be able to instruct base system using voice command to pass through the subsequent voice commands. An example of such a voice command process may include a user speaking Base . . . pass to mobile phone followed by phonebook. Base system would then pass the speech pattern of the user saying phonebook to communication device the user s mobile phone which may also be trained to recognize some voice commands. Upon receiving the phonebook voice command the mobile phone may display the list of contacts stored on the mobile phone to the user. As another example the user may speak Base . . . pass to computer followed by launch Word prompting the user s computer to launch the Microsoft Word application.

A user of a headset may also be able to issue voice commands to the base system and have the base system invoke a corresponding operation on the base system one or more communication devices or any combination thereof. For example in the above example of launching the Microsoft Word application on a computer the user may speak launch Word voice command. The base system may launch the application on the computer using an application programming interface API or other interoperability methodology. As another example a voice command from a headset to a base system may result in a web service an API or a remote procedure call RPC being invoked on a communication device or a network by the base system.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a fourth type of command processing in a base system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Base system may be similar to base system in . Headset may be a headset similar to headset in or a comparable device capable of sending and receiving voice communications.

A user of headset may be able to trigger an operation on base system using voice command . For example a user may be able to speak a voice command notify John 1234 to cause base system to send a notification such as an email page phone fax or any other kind of notification to a user John with the code 1234 . Of course particular implementations may use an actual notification message instead of a code or use other words text or codes instead of the exemplary code used here without departing from the scope of the illustrative embodiments.

A user of a headset may also be able to configure the base system using voice commands. For example the user may be able to speak voice commands such as call linking to enable a feature in the base system that may allow a second headset to link into a call in progress using a first headset. and the corresponding description above describe the call linking operation. As another example a user using a first headset may be engaged in a game on a gaming console via the base system. A second user may similarly link into the same game by speaking voice commands in a similar manner.

With reference to this figure depicts a flowchart of a process of processing voice commands in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Process may be implemented in base system in .

Process begins by establishing a communication path for voice communication to carry speech as well as voice commands step . The communication path may be a wired or wireless connection. Speech is the sound of voice conversations. Speech pattern is a segment of the speech that has specific characteristics such as those associated with the sound when specific words are spoken. The process processes the speech step . Speech processing may be accomplished using many technologies including digital signal processing. Processing engine such as in command processing component in may employ such technologies to process speech.

The process identifies a speech pattern as including a voice command step . The process may identify the speech pattern in any suitable way including by identifying address words such as Base . . . as explained in the examples above. The process then separates a portion of the speech pattern as being the voice command step . For example connect to mobile phone portion of the speech pattern Base . . . connect to mobile phone may be the voice command portion.

The process then compares the separated portion of the speech pattern with training speech patterns step . For example a user may train the base system with several variations of his or her speech patterns for certain commands. Such training speech patterns may be used by the process for the comparison in step . Of course other sources of training speech patterns such as standard speech pattern databases may also be used.

The process then determines if the separated portion of the speech pattern matches or closely resembles any of the training speech patterns step . A resemblance is close if the separated speech pattern and the training speech patterns resemble each other within a preset threshold. If the process determines that the separated portion of the speech pattern matches or closely resembles a training speech pattern Yes path of step the process accepts the separated portion of speech pattern as a voice command step . The process then determines an operation that corresponds with that voice command step . For example a database may store a list of operations correlated with specific voice commands. The process performs the operation that corresponds with the voice command step . The process ends thereafter.

If however the process determines that the separated portion of the speech pattern does not match or closely resemble any training speech patterns the process rejects the speech pattern or determines that the speech pattern is not a voice command step . The process ends thereafter. In an implementation of the process the process may return to step after steps and .

The components and the operations described above are exemplary and not intended to be limited to the illustrative embodiments. The depiction and description have been selected to explain the operation of the base system in accordance with the illustrative embodiments. Many other components and operations thereof will be conceivable in particular implementations of the illustrative embodiments.

Furthermore the voice commands described in the illustrative embodiments above are only exemplary. Many other voice commands may be conceived to similar features functions and operations. Furthermore the above illustrative embodiments utilize headsets only for clarity. Any other device capable of voice communication whether wired or wireless may be used without departing from the scope of the illustrative embodiments. The communication devices described in the above illustrative embodiments are also exemplary. Any equipment component machinery system or apparatus usable with a headset or similar device may be operated in the manner described above.

Thus the illustrative embodiments provide a communication base system and methods of using that base system for enabling communication and interactions between one or more headsets and several communication devices. The illustrative embodiments enable these communication and interactions without associating or disassociating a headset with each communication device. The illustrative embodiments allow several headsets and several communication devices to communicate with each other simultaneously without the limitation of one headset to one communication device association as is presently required.

The illustrative embodiments further allow users to perform operations on the base system and communication devices using voice commands. Users can configure the headsets and the base system so that the user may speak commands corresponding to operations they would like performed. The illustrative embodiments provide exemplary voice commands and operations for sidebar conversation between headsets linking multiple headsets to a common call and connecting several calls to a headset for switching. The illustrative embodiments may be implemented according to the above description for providing voice command interface to communication devices and applications on communication devices that may otherwise not be voice command enabled.

The illustrative embodiments can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. Furthermore the illustrative embodiments can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Further a computer storage medium may contain or store a computer readable program code such that when the computer readable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable program code over a communication link. This communication link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

The above description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the illustrative embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

