---

title: Adjusting mobile device state based on user intentions and/or identity
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving data corresponding to a set of sensor values and one or more indicators that each correspond to one of a number of physical states of a client device. The client device includes a first and second set of sensors. The method also includes generating a number of functions that each determine a probability that the client device is in a respective one of the physical states. The determination includes correlating the set of sensor values with a corresponding physical state of the client device. A first function of the number of functions is based on sensor values of the first set of sensors. A second function of the number of functions is based on sensor values of the second set of sensors. The method also includes sending the number of functions to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591580&OS=09591580&RS=09591580
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09591580
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150409
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 554 838 filed 20 Jul. 2012.

A mobile electronic device such as a smartphone tablet notebook computer etc. may have multiple operation states. For example while a mobile device is not being used by its user it may be in a power saving or sleep state e.g. the screen is dim or dark in order to decrease power consumption level and prolong battery life. In some cases the mobile device may also be in an input locked state e.g. the touchscreen or keypad of the mobile device is locked so that the mobile device does not perform unintentional or accidental operations. In other cases the mobile device may be security locked such that a user is required to provide a correct password or personal identification number PIN in order to unlock and use the device. On the other hand while the mobile device is being actively used by its user it may be in a normal operation state e.g. at full power level and with the screen or keypad unlocked and ready to receive user input .

This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A mobile electronic device such as a smartphone tablet or notebook may have multiple operation states. For example when a mobile device has not been used by its user for a period of time e.g. a few seconds it may enter into a power saving state. At the power saving state the mobile device may operate at a lower power level in order to save energy and prolong battery life. The screen of the mobile device may be dim or dark. To bring the mobile device out of the power saving state into the normal power state the user may need to perform an action with the mobile device e.g. pushing the power button of the mobile device . In some cases e.g. after the mobile device is in the power saving state for a few seconds the mobile device may also enter into an input lock state. At the input lock state the input component e.g. keypad or touch sensitive screen of the mobile device may be locked to prevent accidental inputs causing unintentional operations. To unlock the keypad or screen of the mobile device the user may need to perform another action with the mobile device. For example if the mobile device has a keypad the user may need to push a key. If the mobile device has a touch sensitive screen the user may need to press a control to power up the device and make a swipe gesture on the screen. In addition the mobile device may have a security lock state. At the security lock state the mobile device is password or PIN Personal Identification Number locked to prevent unauthorized access to and usage of the mobile device. To unlock the mobile device the user may need to enter the appropriate password or PIN. When the mobile device is being actively used by its user it may be in a normal operation state e.g. operating at the full power level and ready to receive user inputs . In some cases the mobile device may be in an operation state where its audio output is turned on an operation state where its audio output is turned off or an operation state where its audio output is in a specific mode e.g. loud quiet vibrate etc. . Other operation states may also be possible and this disclosure contemplates any applicable operation state.

At any given time a mobile device may be in any one of the operation states depending on for example whether the user is currently using the mobile device the amount of time that has passed since the user s last use of the mobile device or the location of the mobile device e.g. in a carrying case in the user s pocket or purse etc. .

For example suppose that the user has not used his mobile device e.g. an Apple iPhone for some time and the mobile device has been stored in the user s pocket. In this case the mobile device is most likely in the power saving state to save battery as well as the input lock state to prevent accidental inputs. In addition the mobile device may also be in the security lock state to prevent unauthorized access to the mobile device. Further suppose that the user now wishes to use his mobile device. The user may need to 1 take the mobile device out of his pocket 2 push the power button to bring the mobile device out of the power saving state and 3 swipe the touch screen to unlock the input component of the mobile device. In addition if the mobile device is security locked as well then the user also needs to enter the password or PIN to unlock the mobile device. At the least the user needs to perform a few actions which may take several seconds before the mobile device is ready to be used. Considering that such a sequence of actions may need to be performed several times a day e.g. each time the user needs to use his mobile device after not using the mobile device for a period of time it may become an inconvenience.

Therefore particular embodiments may automatically adjust the current state of a mobile electronic device based on the intention of a user with respect to the mobile electronic device. In particular embodiments a mobile electronic device such as a mobile device may include various types of sensors such as for example and without limitation touch sensors disposed for example on a display of the device the back of the device and or one or more lateral edges of the device for detecting a user touching the surface of the mobile electronic device e.g. using one or more fingers accelerometers for detecting whether the mobile electronic device is moving and the speed of the movement thermometers for measuring the temperature change near the mobile electronic device proximity sensors for detecting the proximity of the mobile electronic device to another object e.g. a hand desk or other object light sensors for measuring the ambient light around the mobile electronic device imaging sensors e.g. cameras for capturing digital images of objects near the mobile electronic device location sensors e.g. Global Positioning System GPS for determining the location e.g. in terms of latitude and longitude of the mobile electronic device near field communication NFC sensors Bluetooth sensors etc. This disclosure contemplates that a mobile electronic device may include any applicable type of sensors. These sensors may provide various types of sensor data which may be analyzed to determine the user s intention with respect to the mobile electronic device at a given time.

In particular embodiments mobile electronic device e.g. a mobile device may have a touchscreen as its input component. illustrates the exterior of an example mobile device . Mobile device has six sides front back top bottom left and right. Touch sensors may be placed anywhere on any of the six sides of mobile device . For example in a touchscreen incorporating touch sensors A is placed on the front of mobile device . The touchscreen may function as an input output IO component for mobile device . In addition touch sensors B and C are placed on the left and right sides of mobile device respectively. Touch sensors B and C may detect a user s hand touching the sides of mobile device . In particular embodiments touch sensors A B and C may be implemented using resistive capacitive and or inductive touch sensors. The electrodes of the touch sensors A B and C may be arranged on a thin solid piece of material or a thin wire mesh. In the case of capacitive touch sensors there may be two types of electrodes transmitting electrodes and receiving electrodes. These electrodes may be connected to a controller e.g. controller illustrated in which may be a microchip designed to drive the transmitting electrodes with electrical pulses and measure the changes in capacitance from the receiving electrodes caused by a user s touches in order to detect the locations of the user touches.

Mobile device is one example of a mobile electronic device and in practice a device may have any number of sides. This disclosure contemplates devices with any number of sides. The touch sensors may be placed on any side of a device. Mobile devices may have a plurality of touch sensors A C that are arranged in different positions for each device.

In particular embodiments mobile device may have a proximity sensor e.g. an infrared LED light emitting diode placed on its back side. Proximity sensor may be able to supply sensor data for determining its proximity and thus the proximity of mobile device to another object.

In particular embodiments in addition to the front side the mobile device may have touch sensors on the left and right sides. Optionally the mobile device may also have touch sensors on the back top or bottom side. Thus as the user s hand touches the mobile device to grab hold of it the touch sensors may detect the user s fingers or palm touching the mobile device. The touch sensor data may be analyzed to determine when and where the user has touched the mobile device. When the user touches the mobile device it may be an indication that the user may wish to use the mobile device. In particular embodiments upon detecting that the user has touched the mobile device the mobile device may be brought out of the power saving state into normal operation state. The main CPU may be transitioned to a powered up state the screen of the mobile device may be turned on and lit up and the input component e.g. the keypad or touchscreen on the front side of the mobile device may be unlocked automatically. As a result by the time the user brings the mobile device out of his pocket for use the mobile device is ready to receive user inputs and commence normal operations.

In particular embodiments the placement of touch sensors on the left right top and or bottom sides may allow for sensing whether a user is touching both sides of the mobile device i.e. the user is grasping the mobile device . Thus the touch sensors can differentiate grasping the mobile device in addition to simply touching it. In particular embodiments being able to detect that the user has grasped the mobile device may yield a more accurate and thus better indication of the user s intention. Using this intention the mobile device may be brought out of the power saving state into normal operation state. The main CPU may be transitioned to a powered up state the screen of the mobile device may be turned on and lit up and the input component e.g. the keypad or touchscreen on the front side of the mobile device may be unlocked automatically. As a result by the time the user brings the mobile device out of his pocket for use the mobile device is ready to receive user inputs and commence normal operations. Nevertheless as described above it is possible to estimate the user s intention using a single touch.

In particular embodiments the mobile device may have an accelerometer in addition to or instead of the touch sensors on the left and right sides. Sometimes the user may put his hand in the pocket where the mobile device is stored and thus touch the mobile device even when the user does not intend to use the mobile device at that time. If the mobile device also has an accelerometer the sensor data provided by the accelerometer may also be used to estimate whether the user intends to use the mobile device. When the mobile device is stored in the user s pocket it may move as the user moves. However such movements usually are relatively slow. On the other hand when the user grabs hold of the mobile device and takes it out of the pocket for use there may be a relatively sudden increase in the movement speed of the mobile device. This change in the mobile device s movement speed may be detected based on the sensor data supplied by the accelerometer. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the speed of the mobile device s movement either by itself or in addition to detecting that the user has touched the mobile device the mobile device may be brought out of the power saving state into normal operation state e.g. turn on the screen of the mobile device and the input component of the mobile device may be unlocked automatically.

In particular embodiments the mobile device may have a gyrometer in addition or instead of the touch sensors e.g. touch sensors on the left and right sides of the mobile device . A gyrometer also known as a gyroscope is a device for measuring orientation along one or more spatial dimension. In particular embodiments a gyrometer may be used to measure the orientation of the mobile device. When the mobile device is stored in the user s pocket it may stay mostly in one orientation. However when the user grabs hold of the mobile device and takes it out of the pocket for use there may be a relatively sudden change in the orientation of the mobile device. The orientation of the mobile device may be detected and measured by the gyrometer. If the orientation of the mobile device has changed significantly it may be another indication that the user may have taken the device out of his pocket.

In particular embodiments the mobile device may have a light sensor. When the mobile device is stored in the user s pocket it is relatively dark around the mobile device. On the other hand when the user brings the mobile device out of his pocket it may be relatively bright around the mobile device especially during day time or in well lit areas. The sensor data supplied by the light sensor may be analyzed to detect when a significant change in the ambient light level around the mobile device occurs. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the ambient light level around the mobile device either by itself or in addition to detecting other characteristics including but not limited to detecting that the user has touched the mobile device or detecting that there is a significant increase in the speed of the mobile device s movement the mobile device may be brought out of the power saving state into normal operation state and the input component of the mobile device may be unlocked automatically.

In particular embodiments the mobile device may have a proximity sensor. The sensor data supplied by the proximity sensor may be analyzed to detect when the mobile device is in close proximity to an object such as the user s hand. For example as illustrated in mobile device may have an infrared LED i.e. proximity sensor placed on its back side. When the user holds such a mobile device in his hand the palm of the user s hand may cover infrared LED . As a result infrared LED may detect when the user s hand is in close proximity to mobile device . In particular embodiments upon detecting that the mobile device is in close proximity to the user s hand either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications described herein the mobile device may be brought out of the power saving state into the normal operation state and the input component of the mobile device may be unlocked automatically.

A mobile device may have any number of sensors of various types and these sensors may supply different types of sensor data. Different combinations of the individual types of sensor data may be used together to detect and estimate a user s intention with respect to the mobile device e.g. whether the user intends to take the mobile device out of his pocket and use it . Using multiple types of sensor data in combination may yield a more accurate and thus better estimation of the user s intention with respect to the mobile device at a given time than only using a single type of sensor data. Nevertheless it is possible and often desirable to estimate the user s intention using a single type of sensor data e.g. touch sensor data . Additionally because every user may grip his or her mobile device differently sensor inputs for grabbing actions may not be consistent across users and devices. Detecting a pattern across all users and devices for particular sensor values when a user grabs a mobile device may take thousands of man hours and as such this task may be well suited to be performed by in particular embodiments an artificial neural network.

Each of mobile device may include in particular embodiments an application program for recording and transmitting training data to a centralized neural network server . The training data collected by mobile devices may be used to train a primary neural network and a secondary neural network . In particular embodiments any suitable number of neural networks may be utilized. In particular embodiments only one neural network may be used. This disclosure contemplates any number of neural networks generating any number of outputs or functions.

The application program resident on each of mobile devices may during the training phase prompt the user to perform specific motions within a predetermined period of time. For example the application may prompt the user Please place your phone on a flat surface and pick it up for use as you normally would in the next 15 seconds. When the user complies the training application may record sensor data from the various sensors for the particular action and may transmit the sensor values as an array of values and a state value. For example training data depicts a one dimensional array with capacitances C Cn and sensor values S Sn. In particular embodiments capacitances C Cn are generated by touch sensors A C. In particular embodiments touch sensors A C may be resistive and training data includes the impedance measured by touch sensors A C. Training data also includes a state. For example the training application may assign a 0 to a first state representing grabbing a phone from a table and raising it for use. As another example the training application may assign a 1 to a second state representing grabbing a phone from a pocket for use and the training application may assign a 2 for a third state representing a phone in a pocket or purse. In particular embodiments the training application may have any number of states representing any suitable action or movement. This disclosure contemplates any number of possible states.

The training applications on mobile devices transmit training data via Internet to neural network server . Neural network server maintains one or more neural networks in this example primary neural network and secondary neural network . Neural networks and may receive training data from a plurality of mobile devices and use machine learning algorithms to recognize patterns of sensor values correlated with one or more states. In particular embodiments neural networks and may be recurrent neural networks. In particular embodiments the neural networks may be feedforward neural networks. In particular embodiments backpropagation through time BPTT training is utilized. In particular embodiments backpropagation training is utilized. This disclosure contemplates the use of any suitable neural network and any suitable method of training neural networks and .

Primary neural network and secondary neural network may utilize only a portion of sensor values included in training data . For example in particular embodiments primary neural network receives only capacitance values from touch sensors A C of one or more of the plurality of mobile devices as inputs. In particular embodiments primary neural network may only receive sensor values from sensors that are always running or from low power sensors. In particular embodiments secondary neural network may receive inputs from a different or overlapping set of sensors than that of primary neural network . For example secondary neural network may receive sensor values from an accelerometer gyrometer light sensor proximity sensor or another sensor of one or more of the plurality of mobile devices that is not activated during a sleep or locked mode.

Primary neural network outputs a function f that may be executed on or convolved with a set of sensor values C Cn. Function f may in particular embodiments be limited to the processing capabilities of a low power microcontroller in mobile device such as controller . In particular embodiments function f may be a series of logical operators such as left shifts or right shifts that may save memory or processor resources. Any suitable methods of implementing mathematical operations may be used. Similarly secondary neural network outputs a function f that may be executed on or convolved with a set of sensor values S Sn. Function f may in particular embodiments be significantly more computationally complex than function f requiring a higher capability floating point unit or other processing elements. In particular embodiments function f may only be executed by main processor of mobile device . After calculation neural network server may transmit functions f and f to mobile devices through Internet .

In particular embodiments neural networks and calculate functions f and f respectively at predetermined intervals. In particular embodiments the interval may be one week. In particular embodiments neural networks and calculate functions f and f when the amount of training data exceeds a predetermined number of samples. In particular embodiments neural networks and calculate functions f and f continuously and transmit updates to users of mobile devices only if the function f or f respectively varies by a predetermined amount from the most recently transmitted function value. This disclosure contemplates any suitable interval for calculating and transmitting functions f or f to mobile devices 

The functions f and f generated by neural networks and improve in accuracy with the number of sets of training data received. In particular embodiments neural network server and the training application may obtain training data from users of an application or service such as a social networking system. In particular embodiments neural network server may be hosted by a social networking system having a social networking application resident on mobile devices 

At Step the training application records sensor values during the duration of the predetermined time period. In particular embodiments mobile device records from every available sensor. In particular embodiments mobile device only records from a subset of available sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of capturing sensor data from the plurality of sensors of mobile device . In particular embodiments the training application takes into account the position of each touch sensor A C for different models of mobile devices . For example mobile device may have touch sensors in different locations from mobile device . The training application may in particular embodiments request that the user enter the make and model of his or her particular mobile device so that each of the sensor outputs may be mapped to the correct input of neural networks and . In particular embodiments the training application may read the mobile device make and model from the mobile device itself for example from the firmware or BIOS of the mobile device.

At Step the training application in each mobile device transmits the sensor values and a state to neural network server . In particular embodiments the process of Steps and is repeated for each state and all the training data from each action represented by a particular state is aggregated and transmitted at once. In particular embodiments the process repeats steps for each state and training data is transmitted to neural network server as soon as it is captured. In particular embodiments not every mobile device will participate in training. For example mobile device may receive functions f and f without providing training data to neural network server . As more devices submit training data the more accurate and robust functions f and f become. In particular embodiments training may be required of mobile devices . In particular embodiments different devices may be required to periodically perform the training of . This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of collecting training data .

At Step neural network server segregates the sensor values based on sensor type. In particular embodiments primary neural network and secondary neural network may utilize different sensors as inputs. For example primary neural network may only accept sensor values from capacitive touch sensors A C as inputs. Thus capacitance values C Cn and a state indicator may be fed into primary neural network . In contrast secondary neural network may only accept sensor values from a gyrometer accelerometer light sensors or the like. Thus sensor values S Sn and a state indicator may be fed into secondary neural network . In particular embodiments there may be substantial overlap between the sensor inputs accepted by each neural network. For example secondary neural network may accept both sensor values from one or more touch sensors A C as well as other high power sensors such as cameras light sensors proximity sensors or the like. This disclosure contemplates any combination of inputs to neural networks and .

At Steps and specific sensor values are transmitted to neural networks and . In particular embodiments the specific sensor values are transmitted along with the state value included in training data . Thus primary neural network may receive capacitances C Cn from touch sensors A C along with the state of the device during the sensor inputs for example that the device was being grabbed that the device was flat on a table or that the device was in a bag or pocket. Similarly secondary neural network may receive sensor values S Sn and in particular embodiments C Cn along with a state value.

At Steps and neural networks and generate functions f and f respectively. Neural networks and may be of any type of neural network. In particular embodiments neural networks and may be recurrent neural networks. In particular embodiments neural networks and may be Hopfield Elman Jordan Echo state long short term memory bi directional or continuous time recurrent neural networks. In particular embodiments neural networks and may be feed forward neural networks. In particular embodiments neural networks and may utilize adaptive linear elements ADALINE and multiple adaptive linear elements MADALINE . This disclosure contemplates any suitable neural networks and for generating functions f and f. In particular embodiments neural network may be of a different type training method or architecture from neural network . In particular embodiments the computational complexity of neural networks and is limited by the processor on which the function f or f will be run. For example f may be designed to be computationally simple for execution on a low power microcontroller. By contrast function f may be designed to be more computationally complex or processor intensive for execution by a higher power main processor unit such as processor .

At Step neural network server transmits functions f and f to client devices . As previously discussed neural network server may transmit functions f and f to any mobile device . In particular embodiments mobile devices are not required to have participated in neural network training by transmitting training data to neural network server . In particular embodiments neural network server may transmit functions f and f at predetermined intervals. As previously described function f or f may be transmitted when it differs a predetermined amount from the previously transmitted function. This disclosure contemplates any suitable transmission method or timing.

At Step microcontroller or sensor controller detects inputs of its primary sensors. In particular embodiments the primary sensors are the sensors utilized by function f generated by primary neural network . In particular embodiments the primary sensors are touch sensors A C and are continuously monitored by microcontroller or sensor controller even in the idle state.

At Step microcontroller or sensor controller executes function f with the values generated by the primary sensors as input values. In particular embodiments the sensor values of primary sensors may be arranged in a data structure such as an array in a particular order. For example function f may call for the inputs to be arranged in the order left capacitive touch sensor back capacitive touch sensor right capacitive touch sensor. In particular embodiments sensor values may be expressed as a vector. In particular embodiments function f may be a set of weights to be multiplied by each of the values in the input vector. In particular embodiments function f may simply be convolved with the input vector of sensor values. In such embodiments in order to preserve computational efficiency the convolution operation may be executed as a series of bit shifts and logical operations between f and the input vector allowing function f to be executed in a low level language such as assembly.

Function f outputs as a result of convolution with the input vector one or more values. In particular embodiments there may be only a single output value. In particular embodiments there may be an output value for each of the possible output states such as grab table or noise indicating for example that the device is in a pocket or bag . In particular embodiments the one or more output values may be discrete. In particular embodiments the one or more output values may be continuous representing the probability that mobile device is in the one or more states. This disclosure contemplates any suitable output values from function f.

At Step mobile device assess the output of function f to determine whether to wake main processor and proceed to function f. Such a determination corresponds to a determination that the output values of f indicate that a grab action is likely. In particular embodiments this determination may be based upon the average of all output values. In particular embodiments this determination may be based on whether a single output value for example the value corresponding to the grab action exceeds a particular threshold. In particular embodiments this determination may be based on whether a particular output value such as the value associated with the noise state is below a predetermined threshold. This disclosure contemplates any suitable decision algorithm based on the output from function f.

At Step upon a positive determination that a grab action is likely in Step microcontroller or sensor processor may transmit a notification message to wake up main processor of mobile device . In particular embodiments the notification message may be a hardware interrupt to wake up main processor . In particular embodiments microcontroller or sensor processor may have a hardwired circuit specifically designed to wake up main processor . This disclosure contemplates any suitable means of waking up main processor .

At Step mobile device obtains sensor data from secondary sensors used by function f. In particular embodiments the secondary sensors may include the accelerometer. For example secondary neural network may have generated function f to recognize particular accelerometer patterns that indicate mobile device has been taken out of a pocket or lifted from a table. Thus after the initial awakening by the microcontroller main processor may pull sensor values from the accelerometer. In particular embodiments the secondary sensors may include the gyrometer. For example secondary neural network may have generated function f to recognize particular gyrometer sensor value patterns that indicate rotation about one or more axes that signal that mobile device has been taken out of a pocket or lifted from a table. In particular embodiments the secondary sensors may include a light sensor. In particular daytime environments transitions from dark to light may signal that mobile device has been pulled from a pocket. In particular embodiments the secondary sensors may comprise any combination of sensor values. In particular embodiments the secondary sensors may comprise values from the camera subsystem of mobile device . In particular embodiments the secondary sensors may include the system clock for example function f may adjust the probability that a given set of inputs corresponds to a grab depending on the time of day. This disclosure contemplates obtaining data from any number or combination of sensors in Step .

At Step mobile device via main processor executes function f using the secondary sensor values obtained in Step as inputs. As previously discussed the secondary sensor values may be arranged in an array or vector data structure. In particular embodiments the sensor data S Sn may be arranged in a data structure in a particular order. In particular embodiments function f may be executed by convolving an input vector with the function weights. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of executing function f using values obtained from the secondary sensors as inputs.

At Step main processor determines the physical state of mobile device or the user s intention from the output of function f. As previously discussed function f may output one or more values each corresponding to a particular physical state of mobile device . For example function f may output values signaling that the device may be grabbed laying flat on a table or in a pocket noise . In particular embodiments each value may be discrete or continuous. In particular embodiments the determination may be based on the sum average weighted average or another mathematical combination of the values being above or below a predetermined threshold. At Steps and if mobile device is in the table or noise states mobile device returns to the idle locked state and powers down main processor . If however mobile device determines that the user intends to use it mobile device may automatically transition to the unlocked state at Step .

In particular embodiments the identity of the user currently handling the mobile device may be verified. If the user currently handling the mobile device is the true owner of the mobile device the mobile device may be unlocked automatically. On the other hand if the identity of the user currently handling the mobile device cannot be verified satisfactorily the user may be prompted and required to provide a password or PIN in order to unlock and use the mobile device.

There may be various means to verify a user s identity. In particular embodiments the mobile device may have an imaging sensor e.g. a camera . As the user brings the mobile device in front of his face the camera may analyze captured digital images of the objects in front of its lens in order to capture the user s face. These images may be analyzed using one or more suitable facial recognition algorithms to locate and compare the user s face to the face of the owner of the mobile device e.g. the face stored on file in connection with the mobile device . If there is a sufficient amount of similarity between the two faces i.e. a match then the user currently handling the mobile device may be verified as the actual owner of the mobile device and the mobile device may be unlocked without asking the user to explicitly provide a password or PIN. The image representing the face of the owner of the mobile device may be stored on the mobile device itself or elsewhere e.g. on a server accessible to the mobile device .

In particular embodiments the user of the mobile device may be a member of a social networking system. A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange or relationships of beliefs or knowledge. In more recent yeas social networks have benefitted from the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games etc.

The user may have a profile with the social networking system that includes information relevant to the user e.g. demographic data social connections and activities interests hobbies etc. . In particular embodiments the information found in the user s profile may also be used to help determine the user s intention with respect to the mobile device at a given time or estimate the user s identity. For example if based on the user s calendar stored with the social networking system it is determined that the user is attending an event e.g. a meeting then the mobile device may be transitioned to a state where the screen is turned off and the input component is locked. As another example it may be determined based on the information available with the social networking system that the user is with his social connections e.g. friends at a given time and location. If the mobile device is in an atypical location for its owner but at the same time several of the owner s family members or friends are also there this may suggest that the mobile device is with its true owner in which case the device may be unlocked without requiring a password or PIN. On the other hand if the mobile device is in an atypical location and none of its owner s social connections is there a password or PIN may be required to unlock the device to ensure that the user of the device is indeed its true owner.

In particular embodiments the true owner of the mobile device may be able to specify settings and indicate conditions for unlocking the device without requiring a password or PIN. For example the owner may specify that when a number of his social connections e.g. friends or family members are detected near the device e.g. using any suitable means such as NFC voice or face recognition etc. the phone may be unlocked without requiring a password or PIN or have a lower threshold for security and vice versa.

In particular embodiments the user s status updates with the social networking system may be used as a signal to help authenticate the user. For example the user s status updates may indicate that the user is actually in a specific location may be used to detect that the user s friends are nearby or the user is tagged by a friend in a check in which in turn indicates that the user is at a specific location.

In particular embodiments the sensors included in the mobile device may be used to navigate within the social networking system including third party applications e.g. online games provided through the social networking system.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tool a toy a wearable item or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a mobile device network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 37 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 37 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

