---

title: Managing multi-user access to controlled locations in a facility
abstract: A method or system for multi-user access of a facility including multiple controlled locations is disclosed. In one step, an image of a person is obtained from a data store. An image capture device is correlated to a controlled location. An image is received for the controlled location. One or more sub-images of the image are determined. At least one of the sub-images is compared with the image of the person. Information is retrieved for the person and a control rule is retrieved for the controlled location. The system determines whether the person is allowed to access the controlled location. Depending on the determination, the system then sends a signal indicating access availability to the controlled location for the person.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09300925&OS=09300925&RS=09300925
owner: 
number: 09300925
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150504
---
This disclosure relates in general to managing multi user access but not by way of limitation to systems and methods that are used to manage multi user access in a facility using image capture devices.

In the United States it is estimated that 765 000 people nationwide live in assisted living facilities. Many of the elderly living in assisted living still have mobility and require minimal supervision while some suffer from dementia Alzheimer s and other mind altering disorders or require heightened care. Monitoring a patient s whereabouts may be difficult as some patients may forget to wear or prefer not to wear tracking devices. Additionally such facilities often have many visitors. These visitors may inadvertently allow an elderly person to access areas that he or she should be restricted from accessing.

Incarceration facilities face similar monitoring drawbacks. There are several million people residing in U.S. state and federal prisons. Inmates are monitored closely but monitoring an inmate s whereabouts may be difficult as inmates may attempt to tamper with tracking devices. Improving the ability to track these inmates as well as manager access to portions of the facility may result in fewer staffing needs for the facility.

Current techniques are lacking with respect to monitoring multi user access in a facility. For example a guard may have to identify a person before allowing the person to enter or leave a portion of a facility. These types of procedures invite higher staffing and managerial costs for the facility manager resulting in higher costs for the elderly in assisted living. Likewise taxpayers bear higher costs related to staffing and managerial costs for our incarceration facilities.

In an example embodiment the present disclosure provides systems and methods for multi user access in a facility. In an example environment the present disclosure provides a system for managing user access of a facility where the facility includes a number of controlled locations. A controlled location as used herein is intended to refer to an area an access point a door a window an elevator or any suitable location for which access may be restricted. The multi user access system comprises a data store wherein the data store comprises a first image of a first person and a second image of a second person. The multi user access system further comprises an image capture devices wherein the image capture devices corresponds to a controlled location and the image capture devices transmits an image for the controlled location of the facility wherein the image records a plurality of people. The multi user access system further comprises an image process engine that determines a plurality of sub images corresponding to the plurality of people in the image wherein the plurality of sub images includes a first sub image and a second sub image The image processor engine further compares the first sub image to the first image of the first person and compares the second sub image to the second image of the second person. The image processor engine further determines using a machine image processing algorithm that the first sub image matches the first image of the first person. The image processor engine further determines using the machine image processing algorithm that the second sub image matches the second image of the second person. The multi user access system further comprises a user access engine that retrieves first information for the first person and retrieves second information for the second person. The user access engine further retrieves a control rule for the controlled location. The user access engine further determines whether the first and second persons are allowed to access the controlled location wherein the determining is a function of the first information the second information and the control rule. The user access engine further sends a signal indicating access availability to the controlled location for the first and second persons.

In another example environment the present disclosure provides a computer implemented method for managing user access of a facility where the facility includes a number of controlled locations. The method may include obtaining a two dimensional image of a person from a data store. The method may further include correlating an image capture device with a controlled location. The method may further include receiving from an image capture device an image for the controlled location of the facility the image recording one or more people. The method may further include determining one or more sub images corresponding to the one or more people in the image. The method may further include comparing at least one of the one or more sub images to the two dimensional image of the person. The method may further include determining using a machine image processing algorithm that the one or more people match the two dimensional image of the person. The method may further include retrieving information for the person and retrieving a control rule for the controlled location. The method may further include determining whether the person is allowed to access the controlled location wherein the determining is a function of the information and the control rule. The method may further include sending a signal indicating access availability to the controlled location for the person based upon the immediately preceding determining.

In yet another example embodiment the present disclosure provides a computer implemented method for managing multi user access of a facility where the facility has a plurality of controlled locations with a corresponding plurality of image capture devices. The method may include obtaining a first image of a first person from a data store and obtaining a second image of a second person from the data store. The method may further include correlating an image capture device with a controlled location. The method may further include receiving from the image capture device an image for the controlled location of the facility the image recording a plurality of people. The method may further include determining a plurality of sub images corresponding to the plurality of people in the image wherein the plurality of sub images includes a first sub image and a second sub image. The method may further include comparing the first sub image to the first image of the first person. The method may further include comparing the second sub image to the second image of the second person. The method may further include determining using a machine image processing algorithm that the first sub image matches the first image of the first person. The method may further include determining using the machine image processing algorithm that the second sub image matches the second image of the second person. The method may further include retrieving first information for the first person. The method may further include retrieving second information for the second person. The method may further include retrieving a control rule for the controlled location. The method may further include determining whether the first and second persons are allowed to access the controlled location wherein the determining is a function of the first information the second information and the control rule. The method may further include sending a signal indicating access availability to the controlled location for the person based upon the immediately preceding determining.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale. In certain instances details that are not necessary for an understanding of the invention or that render other details difficult to perceive may have been omitted. It should be understood that the invention is not necessarily limited to the particular embodiments illustrated herein.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It should be understood that various changes could be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims. Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

As described in the background of this disclosure embodiments of the present invention comprise systems and methods for managing multi user access for a facility. Specifically these methods include the use of one or more image capture devices placed at or substantially near a controlled location. A controlled location as used herein is intended to refer to an area an access point a door a window an elevator or any suitable location for which access may be restricted. An image capture device may include but is not limited to a digital camera a video recorder a still image camera or the like. Additionally or alternatively one or more Bluetooth beaconing devices may be utilized within the facility to manage user access of the facility. A Bluetooth beaconing device as used herein is meant to refer to a positioning system that utilizes a Bluetooth protocol to enable a smart phone or other device to perform actions e.g. respond with locational data of the device when in relatively close proximity to the Bluetooth beaconing device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment one or more wrist worn devices may be utilized within the facility to manage user access of the facility. For example a wrist worn device may include a wristband monitoring device and a faceplate device. The wrist worn device may be adaptable as a dual device with either the wristband monitoring device or the faceplate device able to be operational while the other device is charging. The wrist worn device may include one or many sensors that may be used to track vital signs and or locational information of the patient. As used herein a sensor may comprise at least one of an accelerometer a gyroscope a blood oxygen sensor a thermometer a heart rate monitor a blood pressure monitor a glucose monitor a global positioning system GPS device a pedometer or an altimeter. The wrist worn device may operate as a watch. Additionally the wrist worn device may be capable of presenting a notification to the user. A notification may be audible haptic graphical or textual in nature. The wrist worn device may include a wristband monitoring device connected to a faceplate device for caring out the features described herein. The wristband monitoring device has a number of sensors located on the band to measure various vital signs and visual indicators e.g. LED lights to indicate charging and sensor activation. The faceplate device includes a number of sensors a wireless transmitter a battery charger and a user interface e.g. a touch screen for interacting with the user and remote systems. It should be understood that any reference herein directed to a wrist worn device or wrist worn device s may alternatively be considered to refer to one or more body worn devices not necessarily worn on the wrist e.g. on the ankle attached to a belt and worn around the waist etc. .

Generally speaking embodiments of the present invention enable management of multi user access to controlled locations of a facility. Additionally these embodiments enable managing access as well as ongoing tracking of multiple users within controlled locations of the facility. It should be understood that examples included herein describing combined usage of image capture devices wrist worn devices Bluetooth beaconing devices and or RFID tags readers may instead utilize any suitable combination of the above including individually. In accordance with at least one embodiment identifying and or tracking users in a facility does not require the user to wear any electronic device. It should be understood that with respect to any or all example embodiments included herein functionality descriptions directed to utilizing image capture device s and or Bluetooth beaconing device s and or wrist worn device s and or RFID readers may be omitted in one or more embodiments.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user e.g. visitors employees independent contractors etc. enters a facility. Upon entry or at another suitable time a user may be required by facility staff to register with the multi user access system. In some embodiments registration may include capturing an image of the user. For example a digital camera at a registration station communicating with a device operated by the facility may be utilized to take a front and or profile image of the user. Such images may be communicated to a multi user access system e.g. for storage and or for further processing . Additional information of the user may be stored for example access authority information including but not limited to a two dimensional image of a user a user role a controlled location that the user is allowed to access a controlled location that the user is restricted from accessing a person within the facility who is associated with the user e.g. a person the user is visiting a doctor patient relationship etc. a person that the user may escort to any suitable controlled location that the user is allowed to access a person to which the user is restricted from having access or any suitable combination of the above.

In at least one example one or more image capture devices are placed within one or more controlled locations of a facility e.g. an assisted living facility a hospital a prison a school a shopping center a doctor s office a pharmacy a bank etc. . An image capture device may be placed at an access point of a controlled location e.g. a door a window etc. within a controlled location e.g. a room an outside garden a hallway a nurse s station etc. or substantially near a controlled location and or an access point of a controlled location. Users that enter the facility may approach an image capture device. The image capture device may capture an image of the user. The image may be received by a system responsible for managing multi user access of the facility. Upon receipt of the image the system may analyze the image using one or more machine image processing algorithms. As used herein a machine image processing algorithm is intended to include but is not limited to one or more algorithms for analyzing images the algorithms include operations related to feature extraction pattern recognition multi scale signal analysis projection classification pixilation linear filtering principal components analysis independent component analysis hidden Markov models anisotropic diffusion partial differential equations self organizing maps neural networks wavelets or the like. A machine image processing algorithm may be used to determine a number of sub images e.g. an image of a face an image of a badge an image of an article of clothing etc. from the captured image of the user.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the sub images of the image may be compared to stored images of users registered with the system. If the comparison results in a match access authority information may be retrieved for the user. Such access authority information may indicate that the user is allowed to access e.g. pass through the controlled location e.g. the door . Upon such indication the system may cause a signal to be sent indicating access availability to the controlled location for the user. Such a signal may cause a door window gate to open close unlock lock enable elevator calling or the like. In at least one example the signal may suppress a notification reminder alert alarm or the like. The signal may be an electronic signal that indicates instructions for the controlled location to perform an action.

In accordance with at least one embodiment multiple people may be captured in an image. In such cases one or more sub images for each person may be determined. The identity of each person in the image may be determined by comparing the one or more sub images of each person to stored images of registered users. Upon determining the identity of a person access authority information may be used to determine whether the person is allowed access to the controlled location. In at least some examples if the user is not found in the system then the person may be allowed to access all or some subset of the controlled locations by default.

In accordance with at least one embodiment one person s access authority may override another person s access authority. For example during registration or at another suitable time a doctor may be associated with one or more of her patients. At some point the doctor may attempt to escort the patient into an area to which normally the patient does not have access but to which the doctor does. In this case both the doctor and the patient can be determined from a captured image at for example the door. While access to the door would normally be restricted e.g. locked for the patient the presence of the doctor along with the association of the doctor to her patient may result in the door being accessible to both the doctor and the patient.

In accordance with at least one embodiment multiple users in a facility may be tracked by the system. For example one or more image capture devices may capture various images of a person in the facility at various times. A number of sub images may be determined from the various images. As a non limiting illustrative example an image may indicate a user e.g. a nurse is at a nurse s station within the facility. At substantially the same time an image may indicate falsely that the same nurse is at a door to a controlled location. In such examples or at any suitable time confidence scores may be calculated based on the machine image processing algorithm where a confidence score indicates a degree of likelihood that the person in the sub image is a particular person. A comparison of the confidence scores may result in the person at the controlled location being denied access e.g. when the confidence score of the image depicting the nurse at the desk is higher than the confidence score of the image depicting the nurse at the controlled location . Additionally or alternatively a notification and or an alarm may be triggered based on the determination that the same person is at two different locations in the facility at substantially the same time.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a person may be tracked through the facility by the system. For example one or more image capture devices may capture various images of a person in the facility at various times. A number of sub images may be determined from the various images. As a non limiting illustrative example an image may indicate a user e.g. a nurse is at a nurse s station within the facility. At another time e.g. seconds later another image may indicate that the nurse is moving toward a hallway of the facility. In this example the hallway may not have any image capture devices nearby thus the nurse s progress down the hallway is unattainable through image captures. In such cases the system may calculate a potential location of the nurse based on for example a calculated speed at which the nurse appears to be moving a calculated heading to which the nurse appears to be headed an electronic floor plan of the facility or the like. In some cases the system may monitor for the user to be reappear at another controlled location of the facility within a time period. If the user does not reappear with the time period a notification and or alarm may be triggered. In at least some examples a Bluetooth beaconing device and or a wrist worn device as described above may be utilized independently from or in conjunction with image capture devices. For example Bluetooth beaconing devices and or wrist worn devices may enable the system to ascertain location information of a user. Such location information may be utilize to identify one or more persons in an image e.g. if the person is otherwise unidentifiable and or may be stored for later use.

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts depicts an example environment of an embodiment of a user access controller for managing user access for a facility in accordance with at least one embodiment. In at least one embodiment the user access controller is a component of the a system for managing multi user access in a facility. The facility device s may communicate with user access controller via network s . In some examples the network s include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. The facility device s may be responsible for displaying electronic representations of the facility and or electronic representations of one or more users inside outside the facility. For example a security guard may utilize the facility device s to view one or more persons within the facility.

In accordance with at least one embodiment image capture device s may communicate via a wireless and or wired connection with user access controller to provide images of the facility via the network s . These images may be analyzed by user access controller to determine one or more actual and or potential locations of user . Upon determining a user s identify user access controller may send a signal to controlled location that enables the one or more user s to access the controlled location. Alternatively the one or more user s may utilize an access interface s e.g. a keypad a radio frequency identification RFID reader a graphical interface presented on a wrist worn device etc. to override the determination of access of user access controller . For example user access controller may determine that a particular user is not allowed to access the controlled location . Using the access interface s the particular user may enter an override e.g. by typing in a code presenting an RFID tag etc. in order to gain access to the controlled location .

In at least one embodiments wrist worn device s and or Bluetooth beacon device s may be utilized in conjunction with the image capture device s to track the one or more user s of the facility. The wrist worn device s may include a wristband monitoring device and a faceplate device . The wrist worn device s may exchange cellular network control timing and status information with a cellular network access point so as to maintain communication capabilities in the cellular network. Cellular network access points may provide access to the internet or other data networks. The wrist worn device s may establish an internet connection by detecting a cellular access point performing joining procedures and regularly exchanging status control and routing information with the access point. The wrist worn device s may use the internet connection to access weather data GPS data or to communicate with other devices described herein.

The wristband monitoring device is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include a processing unit s which can include without limitation one or more general purpose processors one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or the like and or other processing structure or means which can be configured to perform one or more of the methods described herein.

The wristband monitoring device might also include a wireless communication interface which can include without limitation a modem a network card an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or a chipset such as a Bluetooth device an IEEE 802.11 device an IEEE 802.15.4 device a Wi Fi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The wireless communication interface may permit data to be exchanged with a network wireless access points other computer systems and or any other electronic devices described herein. The communication can be carried out via one or more wireless communication antenna s that send and or receive wireless signals . In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may communicate with faceplate device via the wireless communication interface .

Depending on desired functionality the wireless communication interface can include separate transceivers to communicate with base transceiver stations e.g. base transceiver stations of a cellular network and access points. These different data networks can include an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA Code Divisional Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or other types of networks.

The wristband monitoring device can further include sensor s . Such sensors can include without limitation one or more accelerometer s and or gyroscope s altimeter s blood oxygen level sensor s heart rate monitor s blood pressure monitor s glucose monitor s pedometer s GPS s thermometer s and the like. At least a subset of the sensor s can provide readings used to provide wellness monitoring as described herein.

Embodiments of wristband monitoring device may also include a Satellite Positioning System SPS receiver capable of receiving signals from one or more SPS satellites using an SPS antenna . Such positioning can be utilized to complement and or incorporate the techniques described herein. The SPS receiver can receive satellite data that can be transmitted to the GPS sensor . The satellite data can be information sufficient to allow the GPS sensor to determine a geographic location of the wristband monitoring device based on the satellite data. It can be noted that as used herein an SPS may include any combination of one or more global and or regional navigation satellite systems and or augmentation systems and SPS signals may include SPS SPS like and or other signals associated with such one or more SPS.

Embodiments of wristband monitoring device may also include an identification device . Identification device may include a device that utilizes radio frequencies in communication e.g. a radio frequency identification RFID device . A RFID device is a device that uses electromagnetic fields to transfer data for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects the tags containing electronically stored information. Other identification devices may be utilized including but not limited to devices utilizing near field communication NFC . NFC is a set of standards used by smartphone and similar devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bring them into proximity of one another.

The wristband monitoring device may further include or be in communication with a memory . The memory is an example of a computer readable storage media. In at least one example computer readable storage media include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of computer storage media that may be included in the wristband monitoring device may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the wristband monitoring device . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Memory can further be used to store sensor data for any combination of sensors in data store . Additionally or alternatively the memory may be used to store medical related data for the user.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory in at least one embodiment includes an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the perceived latency such as via the wristband monitoring device or dedicated applications. In at least one example embodiment the wristband monitoring device is configured to receive store and or display content and at least one interface for interacting with the service provider computer s and or user. Additionally the memory stores access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information includes information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. Additionally the user information may include medical related data associated with the user.

As used herein medical related data can include for example health information that is created or received by a health care provider a processed or unprocessed version of medical data detected by medical equipment and or user identified data. Medical related data can include information that identifies a patient such as personal information and or demographic information. For example the information can identify a patient s name age sex race physical address phone number email address and or social security number. Medical related data may include information collected by a health plan a public health authority an employer a life insurer a school or university or a health care clearinghouse that relates to the past present or future physical or mental health or condition of any individual.

Medical related data can include financial and or insurance information corresponding to the patient. For example the information can identify an insurance company insurance plan member identification number group number insurance contact information e.g. address and or phone number deductible information out of pocket information copay information an employer an occupation and or salary information.

Medical related data can include medical history information such as past diagnoses past or present symptoms or past procedures and or corresponding dates e.g. of diagnoses symptom initiations and or procedures . Medical related data can identify past or present medications being taken by or having been prescribed to the patient and corresponding dates. In some examples the medical related data can identify orders pharmacology orders whether associated with a patient doctor or otherwise.

Medical related data can include an identification of one or more medical services being or having been requested by a patient. A medical service can include for example an evaluation performed by a medical care professional a medical test a surgery and or other procedure. Medical related data can identify a medical test or analysis that was performed or prescribed and or a result of the test or analysis. For example information can indicate that a test e.g. lab test MRI x ray CT scan echocardiography EKG EEG EMG or ultrasound was performed on a particular date and or by a particular entity and can further include a processed and or unprocessed result of the test e.g. a count or level an indication as to whether a test result is normal and or an indication as to whether a particular feature e.g. a fracture tumor lesion slowed nerve conduction was observed and or a magnitude of the feature .

Medical related data can identify one or more care providers or institutions. The care provider and or institution can be one associated with recent or past care and or with the patient. For example data can be transmitted for a patient admitted in Hospital A and being treated by Specialist B though the data can also identify that the patient s primary care physician is Doctor C.

Medical related data can identify one or more emergency contacts or family members and contact data for the individuals. For example medical related data can identify that the patient s emergency contact is an adult child that may be contacted at a provided phone number.

Medical related data can identify a patient healthcare directive. For example medical related data can identify if the patient has a living will a do not resuscitate order DNR or if another individual has the right to make medical decisions relating to the patient s medical care.

Medical related data may further include one or more authorized viewers. Authorized viewers are those that the user has agreed to allow access to his medical related data. For example a user may authorize a doctor an individual having rights to make medical decision related to the patient s medical care a medical institution and the like to access his medical related data. The user may indicate that the authorization is contingent on certain events transpiring e.g. an emergency situation .

Medical related data may or may not selectively pertain to a particular patient. For example non patient specific data may include a price of a prescription a recommended or approved dosing schedule for a medication a work schedule for a physician an acceptance criteria for a clinical study Non patient specific data can include information pertaining to the operation of a medical care facility financial information administrative information and generic clinical information.

Medical related data can depending on the implementation include individually identifiable health information and or de identified information. Individually identifiable health information includes for example health information including demographic information collected from an individual that is created or received by a health care provider health plan employer or health care clearinghouse and that relates to the past present or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual the provision of health care to an individual or the past present or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual and that identifies the individual or with respect to which there is a reasonable basis to believe can be used to identify the individual. De identified information includes information that cannot be used on its own or with other information to identify a person to whom the information belongs. De identified information can include normal ranges or values associated with various sensor data based on gender age or other classification. De identified information can also include medical related data aggregated from other wrist worn device users or non users related.

As used herein medical related data can include protected health information which can include individually identifiable health information that is transmitted by electronic media maintained in electronic media or transmitted or maintained in any other form or medium. Examples of protected health information include for example any information about health status provision of health care or payment that can be linked to a particular patient and may include any of the following information capable of identifying the patient names geographic identifiers dates directly relating to the patient phone numbers fax numbers email addresses social security numbers medical record numbers health insurance beneficiary numbers account numbers certificate license numbers vehicle identifiers and serial numbers device identifiers and serial numbers web Uniform Resource Locators Internet Protocol addresses biometric identifiers e.g. finger retinal and voice prints full face photographic images and any comparable images and any other unique identifying number characteristic or code.

The memory of the wristband monitoring device also can comprise software elements not shown device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein.

The wristband monitoring device includes an output device . Output device may include LED lights speakers or other visual or audible indicators. The output device may be used to indicate when a sensor is activated when a reading is being taken when the wristband monitoring device is being charged when the wristband monitoring device is low on battery when Bluetooth is being utilized by the device and the like.

The wristband monitoring device includes a power source and a means to charge said power source indicated by power input s . In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may be connected to faceplate device and the power source of the wristband monitoring device may be charged from the battery of faceplate device . The power source may include a battery a capacitor or any other suitable means for storing chemical or electrical energy for later use.

The faceplate device is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include a processing unit s which can include without limitation one or more general purpose processors one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or the like and or other processing structure or means which can be configured to perform one or more of the methods described herein.

The faceplate device might also include a wireless communication interface which can include without limitation a modem a network card an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or a chipset such as a Bluetooth device an IEEE 802.11 device an IEEE 802.15.4 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The wireless communication interface may permit data to be exchanged with a network wireless access points other computer systems and or any other electronic devices described herein e.g. the wristband monitoring device . The communication can be carried out via one or more wireless communication antenna s that send and or receive wireless signals . For example the wireless signals can be cellular network signals or a Bluetooth connection. In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may communicate with faceplate device via the wireless communication interface .

Depending on desired functionality the wireless communication interface can include separate transceivers to communicate with base transceiver stations e.g. base transceiver stations of a cellular network and access points. These different data networks can include an Othogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA Code Divisional Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or other types of networks.

The faceplate device can further include sensor s . Such sensors can include without limitation one or more accelerometer s and or gyroscope s altimeter s microphone s pedometer s GPS s thermometer s and the like. At least a subset of the sensor s can provide readings used to provide wellness monitoring as described herein.

Embodiments of wristband monitoring device may also include a Satellite Positioning System SPS receiver capable of receiving signals from one or more SPS satellites using an SPS antenna . The SPS receiver can receive satellite data that can be transmitted to the GPS sensor . The satellite data can be information sufficient to allow the GPS sensor to determine a geographic location of the wristband monitoring device based on the satellite data. Such positioning can be utilized to complement and or incorporate the techniques described herein. It can be noted that as used herein an SPS may include any combination of one or more global and or regional navigation satellite systems and or augmentation systems and SPS signals may include SPS SPS like and or other signals associated with such one or more SPS.

The faceplate device may further include or be in communication with a memory . The memory is an example of a computer readable storage media. In at least one example computer readable storage media include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of computer storage media that may be included in the faceplate device may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the faceplate device . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of the memory can further be used to store sensor data for any combination of sensors in data store . Additionally or alternatively the memory may be used to store medical related data for the user.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory in at least one embodiment includes an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein. In at least one example embodiment the faceplate device is configured to receive store and or display content and at least one interface for interacting with the service provider computer s and users. Additionally the memory stores access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information includes information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. Additionally the user information includes information regarding a therapy associated with the user.

The memory of the faceplate device also can comprise software elements not shown device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more processes described with respect to the method s discussed above such as the methods described in relation to might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by the faceplate device and or processing unit s within a faceplate device and or stored on a non transitory and or machine readable storage medium e.g. a computer readable storage medium a machine readable storage medium etc. .

Faceplate device may include clock . Clock is used to generate a time stamp for each of the data observations generated by the sensors. The time stamps are used by the processing units in the analysis of sensor data and facilitate pattern recognition and improved capacity for determining the operational environment of the faceplate device and wristband monitoring device . The clock can also be used by the processing units to for alarms and other standard clock functions.

The faceplate device includes a user interface . User interface may include a touchscreen a button a keypad interface a vibration generator a sound generator and or other similar interface. The interface facilitates soliciting information from the wearer and obtaining input data and information provided by the wearer in response.

The faceplate device utilizing user interface solicits information about the user or the user s condition or environment so as to analyze such data in order to provide the wellness monitoring features discussed herein. For example the faceplate device utilizes user inputs via user interface to obtain information about the user s physique lifestyle health activity level as well as information related to therapy compliance and other information relevant to ascertaining the user s overall wellness. The faceplate device further solicits any inputs that may facilitate improved learning analysis and sensing performed by the faceplate device the wristband monitoring device and or other suitable devices or computers e.g. service provider computer s .

The faceplate device includes an energy source a means to charge said energy source and a means to charge an energy source located on wristband monitoring device indicated by power input outputs . The energy source may be a battery a capacitor or any other suitable means for storing chemical or electrical energy for later use. In at least one embodiment the wristband monitoring device may be connected to faceplate device and the battery of the faceplate device may charge the battery of wristband monitoring device . In some embodiments the wristband monitoring device may be connected to the faceplate device and the battery of the faceplate device may be the energy source for the wristband monitoring device or vice versa. The faceplate device may be configured to charge from a standard A C adaptor or by use of a charging dock e.g. a charging cradle configured to house the faceplate device or other suitable charging means.

In some examples the wrist worn device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s communicate with the service provider computer s via the network s or via other wired wireless network connections. Additionally the wrist worn device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s may be part of a distributed system managed by controlled by or otherwise part of the service provider computer s .

In at least one embodiment the user access controller allows the user s to interact with the service provider computer s . The one or more service provider computer s perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm host the user access controller and or cloud based software services. Other server architectures may be used to host the user access controller and or cloud based software services. The user access controller is capable of handling requests from a user s and serving in response various user interfaces that are rendered at the wrist worn device s and or access interface s . The user access controller provides any type of device or application control. The user access controller and or corresponding control are provided by the operating system of the faceplate device .

In some aspects the service provider computer s the facility device s and the image capture device s are any type of computing devices such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a server computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. Additionally it should be noted that in some embodiments the service provider computer s the facility device s and the image capture device s are executed by one or more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment is also referred to as a cloud computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the service provider computer s the facility device s and the image capture device s each include at least one memory e.g. memory memory and memory respectively hereinafter the memory and one or more processing units e.g. processor s processor s and processor s respectively hereinafter processor s . The processor s are implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

In at least one example embodiment the memory store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s respectively as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s also include additional storage e.g. additional storage additional storage and additional storage respectively hereinafter the additional storage which includes removable storage and or non removable storage. The memory and or the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. In at least one example computer readable storage media include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s respectively. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s contain communications connection s e.g. communication connections communication connections and communication connections respectively hereinafter communication connections that allow the service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the network s . The service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s also include I O device s I O device s and I O device s respectively hereinafter I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory e.g. the memory in more detail each memory includes an operating system e.g. operating system operating system and operating system respectively hereinafter operating system one or more data stores e.g. data store s data store s and data store s respectively hereinafter data store s and or one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein. For example medical related data sensor and or location data collected from wrist worn device s location data received by Bluetooth beacon device s one or more images collected from image capture device s and any suitable data utilized by user access controller may be stored in data store s or a data store external to the service provider computer s the facility device s and or the image capture device s .

In the embodiment shown in the drawings map data store s user profile data store s schedule data store s and health record data store s are shown although data can be maintained derived or otherwise accessed from various data stores either remotely or locally to achieve the functions described herein. The user access controller includes various modules such as graphical user interface s application programming interface s user profile manager s image processing engine s user access engine s scheduling engine s tracking engine s and the user feedback engine s . Some functions of the modules and are described below. However for the benefit of the reader a brief non limiting description of each of the modules is provided in the following paragraphs.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a method is enabled managing multi user access to a facility. For example the user access controller may be a component of the service provider computer s or reside on a computing device accessible to the service provider computer s via the network s .

In accordance with at least one embodiment access authority information may be entered e.g. by an administrator employee of the facility using the facility device s via the graphical user interface s a component of the user access controller . The facility device s may be any electronic device capable of receiving and transmitting electronic data e.g. a laptop a cellphone a tablet etc. . Once configuration information is entered via the graphical user interface s the application programming interface s a component of the user access controller may be utilized to receive the access authority information. Any information discussed herein that is transmitted or received by the user access controller may utilize the application programming interface s .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user profile manager s a component of the user access controller is configured to receive user profile information. The user profile manager s may be responsible for creating and maintaining a user profile utilized to store user profile information including but not limited to access authority information of the user. Further the user profile manager s may cause such information to be stored in the user profile data store s .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the image processing engine s a component of the user access controller is configured to receive one or more images from the image capture device s . For example an image taken by the image capture device s may include a group of people. Upon receipt the image processing engine s may determine a number of sub images of the image utilizing machine image processing algorithms. The image processing engine s may further be configured to communicate with the user profile manager s in order to obtain user profile information e.g. a name of a user an address of a user a cell phone number of a user an image of the user and or access authority information e.g. a controlled area to which the user has access. . Upon determining the number of sub images the image processing engine s may identify a particular person in the sub image by comparing matching an image of the user to the sub image. The image processing engine s may calculate a confidence score for each image sub image that indicates to some degree of confidence that a particular person is included in the image sub image. Such confidence score s may be indicated by a percentage a decimal number an integer number or any suitable means of indicating a score. In at least one example the image processing engine s may communicate a match to the user access engine s for further processing. Additionally or alternatively the image processing engine s may communicate the match to the tracking engine s and or the user profile manager s for further processing.

In at least one embodiment the user access engine s a component of the user access controller is configured to receive information from the image processing engine s . In at least one example the user access engine s a component of the user access controller is responsible for determining whether or not a user is allowed access to a controlled location of a facility. The user access engine s may be configured to communicate with the user profile manager s in order to ascertain receive or otherwise obtain user profile information and or access authority information for the user. The user access engine s may be configured to communicate with the scheduling engine s in order to ascertain receive or otherwise obtain a schedule for a user and or a schedule for the controlled location of the facility. The user access engine s may determine using information obtained using the user profile manager s and or the scheduling engine s and or the image processing engine s whether or not the user is allowed access to a particular controlled location. Upon such determination the user access engine s may cause a signal to be sent to the controlled location. Such a signal may result in various actions being performed e.g. open close lock unlock a door window enable elevator calling triggering an alarm etc. . Additionally or alternatively the user access engine s may communicate information to the user feedback engine s to cause a notification and or a reminder and or an alert and or an alarm to be communicated to one or more of the facility device s one or more of the wrist worn device s or any suitable device e.g. a speaker located within the facility .

In at least one embodiment the scheduling engine s a component of the user access controller is configured to receive or otherwise obtain scheduling information for the user and or a controlled location of a facility e.g. from the schedule data store s . The scheduling engine s may be responsible for determining a current time and comparing a current time to one or more schedule times. Based on such comparison the scheduling engine s may report to any suitable component of the user access controller that a schedule e.g. a schedule for the user and or a schedule for the controlled location permits or restricts the user from accessing the controlled location at the current time or for some period of time.

In at least one example the scheduling engine s may cause one or more reminders to be displayed sounded on the wrist worn device s and or the facility device s . For instance scheduling engine s may determine that a user e.g. a resident a patient a prisoner etc. may have an appointment or scheduled time to access a controlled location. Upon such a determination the scheduling engine s may transmit information to the user feedback engine s in order to cause information to be displayed on the wrist worn device s and or the facility device s . In a non limiting example a nurse wearing a wrist worn device may receive via the wrist worn device a reminder that her patient has an appointment in a laboratory. Additionally or alternatively the reminder may be received and displayed on the facility device s . Additionally or alternatively the reminder may be delivered by an auditory device e.g. a speaker .

In at least one embodiment the tracking engine s a component of the user access controller may be configured to track or otherwise monitor one or more persons in a facility. For example the tracking engine s may receive information from the image processing engine s indicating that one or more people are included in an image at a specific controlled location. Additionally or alternatively the tracking engine s may be configured to receive location information for a user from the wrist worn device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s and or access interface s e.g. one or more RFID readers . In at least one example the tracking engine s may utilize the information from the image processing engine s and or the wrist worn device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s and or the access interface s to calculate a potential location for a specific person in the facility. In some cases the tracking engine s may communicate information regarding a potential location of the user to the user feedback engine s for display on the facility device s and or the wrist worn device s and or for auditory delivery using the facility device s and or the wrist worn device s and or another suitable auditory device. In accordance with at least one embodiment the tracking engine s may cause such tracking data to be stored in for example the user profile data store s and or the health record data store s .

In at least one embodiment the user feedback engine s a component of user access controller may be configured to interact with map data store s in order to display a map of a geographical location e.g. a hospital ward floor plan assisted living home floor plan a prison wing etc. . In at least one example the user feedback engine s may cause a floor plan of a hospital ward to be displayed for example on the facility device s with in some cases at least one graphical element superimposed over the floor plan indicating a location of a user. In accordance with at least one embodiment the user feedback engine s may be configured to cause a notification a reminder an alert and or an alarm to be communicated to one or more of the facility device s one or more of the wrist worn device s or any suitable device. Such a notification reminder alert and or alarm may be visual and or audible in nature. If visual the notification alert and or alarm may include a flashing light and or an email message and or SMS texting or the like. If audible the notification alert and or alarm may include for example a spoken word sounded on a speaker system a tone series of tones sounded on a speaker system or the like.

At block an image capture device is correlated with a controlled location. For example the user access controller may determine from a mapping or similar mechanism that a particular image capture device of the facility is correlated to a particular controller location of the facility. In at least one example such information may be stored in the map data store s separately or together with electronic map information of the facility e.g. floor plan data schematic s etc. .

At block an image may be received from an image capture device the image being for the controlled location of the facility the image recording one or more people. In at least one example one or more people walking up to a door of the facility at which a image capture device is posted may be recorded in an image taken by the image capture device posted at for example the door. Similarly an image capture device posted to obtain a view of a hallway room door window or other controlled area may capture one or more people within the controlled location. For example individual images may capture a nurse sitting at his desk a doctor travelling down a hallway a prisoner in her cell or the like. It should be understood that the image capture device does not necessarily have to be affixed nor does the image capture device need to be affixed and or located within a particular distance of the controlled location.

At block one or more sub images corresponding to the one or more people in the image may be determined. For example the image processing engine s may analyze the images using one or more machine image processing algorithms to determine the one or more sub image. As used herein a sub image is intended to refer to a portion of the image received. In some example the sub image may contain a person s face a badge an embroidered name on a uniform garment a retina or the like.

At block at least one or more of the sub images are compared to the two dimensional image of the person. In at least one example the sub image determined by the image processing engine s includes a person s face.

At block it may be determined using a machine image processing algorithm that the one or more people match the two dimensional image of the person. For example the image processing engine s may utilize one or more machine image processing algorithms to compare the sub image e.g. the person s face to the two dimensional image of the person e.g. a profile image of a user s face obtained at for example registration .

At block information may be retrieved for the person. For example information may be retrieved for the person in response to determining that the two dimensional image of the person matches the sub image. Such information may include user profile information and or access authority information.

At block a control rule for the controlled location may be retrieved. A control rule is intended to refer to logic associated with controlled location that allows restricts users with respect to the controlled location. A control rule may be indicated using a schedule associated with the controlled location e.g. using scheduled times during which the controlled location is accessible or restricted . In accordance with at least one embodiment one or more control rules may be retrieved from for example the map data store s and the schedule data store s .

At block a determination may be made e.g. by the user access engine s as to whether the person is allowed to access the controlled location wherein the determining is a function of the information and the control rule. For example a schedule for the controlled location may indicate that users other than janitorial staff are restricted from accessing the controlled location from the hours of 12 00 AM to 6 00 AM daily. Additionally or alternatively a control rule for the controlled location may indicate that only users associated with a certain user role may be permitted access. Generally speaking control rules may be associated and or stored with floor plan s schematic s facility schedule s or the like. Control rules may relate to a facility as a whole and or a portion of the facility. For example a pharmacy may have a controlled location that houses particular drugs that are exceptionally dangerous and or prone to theft. Thus a control rule for the controlled location may specify that users having a role of pharmacists are allowed to access the controlled location while users having a rule of cashier are not. Similarly in an assisted living facility a control rule for a portion of the facility may specify that users having a user role of staff or doctor may be allowed access to the controlled location while users having a user rule of patient or resident may be restricted from accessing the controlled location.

At block a signal may be sent indicating access availability to the controlled location for the person based on the determination at block . The signal may cause a door window to open close lock unlock enable elevator calling cause a notification reminder alert alarm to be triggered or the like. The signal may be send by the user access engine s and or user feedback engine s or another suitable component of the user access controller .

In accordance with at least one embodiment user may optionally be wearing or otherwise carrying the wrist worn device s and or a cellphone or other electronic device capable of communicating with a the Bluetooth beaconing device s A C collectively Bluetooth beaconing device s . Bluetooth beaconing device s may be configured as shown in or may be configured in any suitable configuration as would be obvious to one skilled in the art of configuring Bluetooth beaconing device within the facility . A single Bluetooth beaconing device may reside in each room in a subset of the rooms or otherwise spread out in the facility . At least one Bluetooth beaconing device may reside outside the facility. In at least one example user access controller may retrieve the facility floor plan from an electronic data storage location e.g. map data store s . Bluetooth beaconing device A may be correlated to the controlled location or an area occurring within a threshold distance of the location of Bluetooth beaconing device A. Bluetooth beaconing device B may be correlated to the controlled location or an area occurring within a threshold distance of the location of Bluetooth beaconing device B. Bluetooth beaconing device C may be correlated to the controlled location or an area occurring within a threshold distance of the location of Bluetooth beaconing device C.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the image capture device s A C collectively the image capture device s may be configured as shown in or may be configured in any suitable configuration as would be obvious to one skilled in the art of configuring image capture devices within the facility . A single image capture device or multiple image capture devices may reside in each room in a subset of the rooms in a space in a hallway or otherwise suitably spread out in the facility . At least one image capture device may reside outside the facility. Image capture device s may provide continuous view ability of the facility or may instead provide intermittent view ability e.g. not every portion of the facility is viewable by an image capture device . Each image capture device may be correlated with a controlled location of the facility. For example the image capture device s may each be associated with hallway . Additionally or alternatively image capture device A may be correlated with the controlled location and or controlled location and or the controlled location . Image capture device B may be correlated with controlled location and or controlled location and or controlled location . Image capture device C may be correlated with controlled location and or controlled location .

In accordance with at least one embodiment each controlled location e.g. each room depicted in and the hallway may be monitored using the image capture device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s and or the wrist worn device s worn by any combination of users within and or near the facility including no users or any suitable combination of the above.

In accordance with at least one embodiment each controlled location in the facility may be accessible restricted to the user . For example the user e.g. a patient in an assisted living facility may be allowed access to the controlled location as the controlled location is where the user resides. The user may further be allowed access to hallway due to the requirement that the user pass through hallway in order to access other controlled locations. In this example the user may further be allowed access to the controlled location e.g. the facilities cafeteria as controlled location is where the user received his meals. Path may be additionally be included as a controlled location. The path may be accessible to the user as a pattern of traversal the user may execute when going to get food from the controlled location . In at least some examples the user may be restricted from deviating from the path . Deviation may be ascertained using the image capture device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s and or the wrist worn device s and or the RFID readers or any suitable combination of the above e.g. using only the image capture device s . In a non limiting example the user may be a visitor to the facility. In such an example the user may check in to the facility at the controlled location . The user may then be restricted to travelling only the path to visit for example his grandmother in the controlled location . In some cases if the user deviates from the path e.g. as determined utilizing images captured by the image capture device s for example a notification reminder alert alarm will be triggered e.g. on the facility device s on a speaker located within the facility .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may be carrying an RFID tag e.g. as part of an employee badge as part of the wrist worn device s etc. . RFID readers may be located at each door or subset of doors corresponding to controlled locations depicted in . The user may utilize an RFID tag at one or more of the RFID readers of the facility . Such information may be communicated to the user access controller where the user access controller may attempt to authenticate the user s information and allow restrict access accordingly. Additionally or alternatively RFID information may be utilized and or stored to be used in calculations involving tracking and or otherwise determining a user s location within the facility .

In accordance with at least one embodiment over a period of time the image capture device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s and or the RFID readers and or the wrist worn device s or any suitable combination of the above may communicate information to the user access controller . Upon receipt the user access controller may utilize the received information to track the user through the facility obtain location information of the user or the like.

In a non limiting example the user may enter the facility by entering the controlled location . The user may be carrying a cell phone. Consider the case where user is at the facility to visit his grandmother. The user may be met with a staff person associated with the facility in the controlled location . The staff person may collect the user s profile information e.g. name address phone number driver s license number or other identification number associated persons in the facility etc. . Such user profile information may be entered using for example the facility device s . The facility device s may communicate such information to the user access controller . The user profile manager s or some suitable component of the user access controller may cause such user profile information to be stored in for example the user profile data store s . The user may as part of the same process be associated with access authority information. For example the user may be manually allowed to access one or more controlled locations. The user may manually be allowed to access the controlled location and or the hallway and or the controlled location of . Such access authority information may be manually entered may be generated from a path defined by the staff person on the facility device s e.g. by tracing a path through the facility using an electronic representation of the facility floor plan may be allowed by default may be determined by the user access controller as a function of the user s starting location and the location of any person in the facility may be determined by the user access controller as a function of the one or more controlled locations to which the user has access or any suitable combination of the above.

In one non limiting example upon entry of the user s profile information and or access authority information the user may begin to be monitored tracked as he transitions from one location to the next within the facility . For example while the user is located in the controlled location the Bluetooth beaconing device A may determine the location of the user using the cell phone and or the wrist worn device s . As the user travels into the hallway along the path the image capture device A may capture one or more images of the user as he travels along the path . Additionally or alternatively the Bluetooth beaconing device s may obtain location information of the user as the user travels along the path . After the user passes image capture device B at location the image capture device B may capture one or more images of the user . Bluetooth beaconing device s may obtain further location information of the user at the location or at any suitable point along the path or for any suitable user location within a threshold distance of the Bluetooth beaconing device s . As the user approaches the controlled location the image capture device C may capture one or more images of the user at the location or at any suitable point along the path or at any suitable location viewable to the image capture device C. Any image captured by image capture device s and or any location information received determined by the Bluetooth beaconing device s and or wrist worn device s and or RFID readers may be communicated to user access controller .

In one non limiting example the user may be travelling toward a particular heading e.g. towards the controlled location . In such cases user access controller may receive one or more inputs e.g. image s from image capture device s and or location data from the Bluetooth beaconing device s and or RFID data from the RFID readers and or location data from the wrist worn device s or any suitable combination of the above . Upon receipt a component of user access controller e.g. the tracking engine s may calculate a potential future user location according to the received one or more inputs. As a non limiting example the tracking engine s may receive one or more images from image capture device A indicating that the user is traveling down the hallway . Upon receipt the tracking engine s may determine that the user is heading away from the image capture device A. Additionally the tracking engine s may determine a speed at which the user is moving by comparing a size of the user in a first image and a size of the user in a second image. Additionally or alternatively the tracking engine s may calculate a potential destination including a potential time of arrival as a function of user profile information indicating person s associated with the user e.g. the grandmother . Perhaps in this example the image capture device B is malfunctioning and does not capture an image of the user . In this case the tracking engine s upon calculating a potential destination by determining where the grandmother is located e.g. the controlled location and or using the heading of the user as indicated by the one or more received inputs may further determine a potential arrival time using for example the calculated user speed determined from the one or more inputs. Alternatively the user may be allotted by the tracking engine s a predefined amount of time to arrive at the destination. In at least some example if the user does not arrive at the predetermined calculated arrival time a notification reminder alert alarm may be triggered by the tracking engine s or any suitable component of the user access controller .

In at least one example the user having been first allowed to access the controlled location may be given a period of time e.g. 2 minutes within which to exit the controlled location after a time at which the controlled location becomes restricted to the user . If the user does not leave within the period of time a notification reminder alert alarm may be triggered in a similar manner as described above.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the activities of the user may be tracked and stored by a component of the user access controller e.g. the tracking engine s . In at least one example the user may have been instructed by a physician to walk about the facility . Additionally or alternatively the user s tracked information may be useful in determining whether the user has been going to meals participating in activities offered throughout the facility and or utilizing various resource of the facility or the like. The tracked information may in some cases be stored in the health record data store s along with or associated with medical related information of the user . Additionally or alternatively such tracked information may in some cases be stored along with user profile information in user profile data store s . Such information may be accessible by for example a doctor at a suitable time during which the doctor may ascertain the activities and or behaviors of the user .

In accordance with at least one embodiment one or more controlled locations associated with the facility e.g. internal or external controlled locations of the facility may be associated with one or more corresponding control rules. For example the controlled location e.g. a cafeteria may have hours of operation during which any users may be allowed access. Additionally or alternatively a controlled location may be associated with one or more user roles such that only users of the one or more associated user roles may be allowed access to the controlled location. For example controlled location of may be a laboratory. User e.g. a patient may be associated with a user role that is not allowed access to controlled location . Alternatively user may be associated with a user role e.g. lab assistant that is allowed access to controlled location according to one or more control rules for controlled location a controlled location .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the image capture device s and or the access interface s and or the wrist worn device s and or the Bluetooth beaconing device s associated with the facility may be utilized to determine that one or more people are approaching a controlled location e.g. a controlled location correlated with a particular image capture device . In at least one example a visual and or audible e.g. verbal and or non verbal attention drawing measure e.g. a blinking light an audible tone a verbal command may be utilized to prompt and or direct the one or more people gaze in a particular direction e.g. in the direction of the particular image capture device in order to minimize and or eliminate the need for the one or more people to stop outside the controlled location e.g. to wait for image processing to complete before access is granted .

In accordance with at least one embodiment upon receipt of an image from the image capture device s one or more sub images of the image may be determined. For example a component of the user access controller e.g. the image processing engine s may determine the sub image and the sub image utilizing one or more machine image processing algorithms. For example one such machine image processing algorithm that may be utilized to search for and isolate portions of the image that appear to be a person s face. In one non limiting example a facial recognition algorithm may be used to determine the sub image e.g. an image of the doctor s face and the sub image e.g. an image of the patient s face . The sub images may be used in a comparison between the sub images and stored images of the doctor and the patient . Through such comparison the identity of the doctor and the patient may be determined. For example the sub image may be compared to one or more stored images until a matching stored image is found. Upon determining that the sub image matches a stored image the user s identify may be ascertained by for example accessing the user profile information associated with the stored image. Access authority information for the user e.g. the access authority information of the doctor may be ascertained by accessing the access authority information associated with the stored image e.g. via a user profile stored in the user profile data store s . User profile information and access authority information for patient may be ascertained in a similar manner utilizing sub image and one or more stored images.

In at least one example images of a user who is not associated with a stored image may be analyzed. For example an image may be analyzed to determine that a user is not associated with a stored image. In some cases the user who is not associated with a stored images may be allowed access to some or all of the controlled locations of the facility by default. In another example a child may break away from her parent and approach a controlled location. Upon receiving the image of the child machine image processing algorithm s may be utilized to estimate an approximate age e.g. 4 years old in this case . Upon determining that the child in the image is likely e.g. within some degree of likelihood a person under a threshold age e.g. 10 years old access may be restricted such that the child may not access the controlled location.

In accordance with at least one embodiment once each of the doctor and the patient are identified and access authority information for each user obtained a component of the user access controller e.g. the user access engine s may determine whether to allow both users one user or neither user to access the controlled location. In at least one example the controlled location has a control rule that specifies that users having a user role of doctor may access the controlled location e.g. an examination room at any time. Additionally the controlled location may have a further control rule that specifies that users having a user role other than doctor nurse assistant janitorial staff or the like are not allowed access to the controlled location. Thus the patient were he to approach the examination room alone would not be allowed access due to the specified control rules.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the doctor may be associated with the patient . For example access authority information of doctor may include the identification of the patient as being indicative of a person that the doctor may escort. In such an example the access authority information of the doctor may override the access authority information of the patient . Thus though the patient who would not be allowed to access the examination room were he to attempt access alone will not be able to access the examination room due to the presence of the doctor .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the doctor and the patient may in some cases have no prior association e.g. the doctor is not associated with the patient . In such cases a component of the user access controller e.g. the image processing engine s may determine via the image received from the image capture device s that the doctor and the patient are within some distance apart. Distance measurements may be determined through analyzing a size of one person and a size of another person in the image. Additionally or alternatively points of reference e.g. a door painting etc. having known dimensions may be utilized to determine a distance of a person in the image from the image capture device transmitting the image. For some cases a distance of less than a threshold distance may be determined to be indicative of an escort situation. In other words if the doctor and the patient are the distance apart and the distance is less than some predefined distance threshold then user access controller may allow the doctor to escort e.g. override the access authority information of the patient . It should be understood that in some cases multiple user s access authority information may be ascertained and that in some cases if any of the multiple user s access authority information indicates that a user is allowed to access the controlled location then all of the multiple user s within a threshold distance may be allowed to access the controlled location. In this manner the doctor may escort one or more users into a controlled location.

Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodied instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

