---

title: Information propagation probability for a social network
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for predicting propagation of a message on a social network. A predictive model is trained to determine a probability of propagation of information on the social network using both positive and negative information propagation feedback, which may be collected while monitoring the social network over a desired period of time for information propagation. A particular message can be input to the predictive model, which can determine a probability of propagation of the message on the social network, such as how many connections may receive at least a portion of the message and/or a likelihood of at least a portion of the message reaching respective connections in the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256829&OS=09256829&RS=09256829
owner: 
number: 09256829
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150119
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 919 088 filed on Jun. 17 2013 entitled INFORMATION PROPAGATION PROBABILITY FOR A SOCIAL NETWORK and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 971 191 filed on Dec. 17 2010 entitled INFORMATION PROPAGATION PROBABILITY FOR A SOCIAL NETWORK which are incorporated herein by reference.

Many social networking services such as Internet based services providing connections between users allow their users to create context free connections e.g. friending and content based connections between their users e.g. reposting . For example a user may send a connection request to another user of the social network in order to connect such that updates posts etc. from each of the connected users can be viewed. In some cases a user might mention another user in a posted message or a user may re post information that another user has previously posted. This content based connection between two people can often be indicative of influence that a first user has on a second user because the second user may have felt that information posted by the first user was important enough to share with their friends and followers thereby providing a content based connection. When a second user propagates e.g. reposts forwards mentions etc. some information from a first user connections to the second user can see the propagated information which in turn may be propagated by these connections and so on such that a plurality of users in the social network can view at least a portion of the originally posted information.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Being able to predict a type of content based connection such as when user s repost and or mention another user in a post may be useful to identify potentially influential users propagations trends and or potential reach of information on a social network for example. Currently predictive models are often used to identify potential trends in online behaviors. However predicting a probability that information posted on a social network may be propagated on the social network is not performed.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed where information sharing on social networks can be observed for example to determine influential social network users and or a potential reach of information in a social network by propagation e.g. reposting mentioning . The social network can be observed for positive and negative propagation data for example and a graph of potential connections for a given user may be developed by scanning shared messages between users over a given time frame. A training set of positive and negative connections can be developed based on the potential connections for a given user and a predictive model can be trained over the training set to identify propagation probability for a given user message for example.

In one embodiment for predicting propagation of a message on a social network a predictive model can be trained to determine a probability of propagation of information on the social network using both positive and negative information propagation feedback such as from monitoring the social network over a desired period of time. Further the predictive model can be used to determine a probability of propagation of the message on the social network such as how many connections may receive at least a portion of the message and or a likelihood of at least a portion of the message reaching respective connections in the social network.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method may be devised that can provide improvements in message propagation e.g. re posting of a user s message by another user or forwarding a message on social networks. Historical message propagation can be monitored on a social network for example to identify trends in message propagation such as those relating to the message author propagator content of the message and timing of the message. The historical message propagation information can be used to train a predictive model and the trained model can be used to determine propagation probabilities for a current message for example. Further message adjustments may be determined for the current message for example that may improve potential propagation such as content and or timing adjustments.

Further the one or more contacts of the user can propagate the message to their contacts e.g. forward or repost at least a portion of the message and or a link to at least a portion of the message such as a document which may comprise other users that are not contacts of the message author for example. In one embodiment positive feedback may come from message propagation and negative feedback may come from when a message is not propagated e.g. no forwarding or reposting .

At in the exemplary method a predictive model is trained with the collected feedback to determine message propagation probability. For example a predictive model can be created or identified for use based on a desired prediction of probability of an outcome. A predictive model may utilize one or more classifiers to determine a probability given the input information of one or more outcomes. Some classifiers that may be utilized include but are not limited to a Na ve Bayes classifier support vector machine SVM or other linear classifier logistic regression classifier k nearest neighbor classifier or some model that learns probability distributions for input variables for example and even an uplift modeling classifier for predictive modeling of message alternatives.

In one embodiment the predictive model can be trained over data collected from monitoring the social network for positive and negative feedback. For example a predictive model such as comprising one or more classifiers can be trained over a training set. The training set can provide information to the model that allows it to predict a probable outcome for a particular input. For example the social network may be monitored for a period of time during which a plurality of user messages are posted to the network and a plurality of user message propagations are undertaken or not by connections to the users posting the messages. The metadata associated with user message posting and propagation or non propagation can be used as a training set for the predictive model.

At in the exemplary method user message information such as the author content timing and or the user contacts can be input to the trained predictive model and at the trained predictive model can be used to determine a probability of propagation of the message on the social network. That is for example a user may create a message which may comprise text media a document a link data code and or a combination of any of these and or any other content for posting to the social network. In this embodiment the message can be input to the trained predictive model along with an expected time for posting and or information related to the user s connections on the social network. In this example the trained predictive model can determine a probability that the message will be propagated on the social network such as by how many connections a probability of reaching all potential connections to the user e.g. including connections of connections and or other probabilities related to message propagation on the social network.

Having determined the probability of propagation of the message on the social network the exemplary method ends at .

Positive information propagation feedback can comprise information associated with a propagation of a message e.g. forwarding reposting etc. from an author by one or more connections to the author of the message. For example when an author of the message posts the message to their social network e.g. using a status update micro blogging statement comment on an existing post linking or indicating approval or disproval of an existing item etc. one or more connections to the author e.g. depending on settings associated with the author s post and or social network settings may receive a notice of the post. In this example a connection to the author that receives the notice of the post can repost or forward at least a portion of the message to one or more of their connections in the social network e.g. and so on such as a connection to the connection reposting .

In one embodiment the collected propagation metadata can comprise an identity of an originator of propagated information e.g. the author . For example the identity may comprise a username an IP address of the client machine used for the posting or some other identification that links the author to the posted information e.g. message . Further the collected propagation metadata can comprise an identity of a propagator of the propagated information. For example each time at least a portion of the original information is reposted an identity of the reposter can be collected.

Additionally the collected propagation metadata can comprise content of the propagated information. For example the posted information may comprise an overall relational theme such as entertainment related e.g. celebrities movies music etc. technical field related e.g. a technology review sports related computer related political etc. etc. which may be identified and associated with the original posted message. As another example key words may be identified in the content of the propagated information and associated with the original posted message.

The collected propagation metadata may also comprise a time period associated with the propagation of the propagated information. For example a time that the original message can be identified along with times for respective repostings of the message. In this embodiment the metadata associated with propagation of the message posted by a user can be considered as positive metadata.

In one embodiment the monitoring can comprise collecting non propagation metadata at which is associated with negative information propagation feedback on the social network . For example when a message posted by a user is not propagated e.g. reposted by any of the user s connections the message can be linked to negative information propagation e.g. no propagation . The non propagation metadata can comprise an identity of an originator of non propagated information and or an identity of a non propagator of the non propagated information. For example as described above the identity of the message poster e.g. author user and the identity of the respective connections to the message poster that did not propagate the message can comprise negative information propagation feedback.

Further as described above the non propagation metadata can comprise content of the non propagated information and or a time period associated with the non propagation of the non propagated information. As an example a theme topic of the posted non propagated information and or keywords in the posted non propagated information can be identified. Also in this example the time at which the non propagated message was initially posted can be identified for the non propagation metadata.

In one aspect the monitoring of propagation of information such as user posted messages on the social network can comprise monitoring respective users that propagate information. As an illustrative example the social network can be monitored for propagation activity and when a message is propagated the identity of the propagator along with other positive propagation metadata can be collected. Further in this embodiment the propagator can be monitored to determine when they do not propagate a message from the same or another author in order to collect negative propagation metadata. In this way in one embodiment merely those users that propagate messages can be monitored to collect the negative and positive metadata for training the predictive model for example.

At in the example embodiment the predictive model can be trained to determine the probability of propagation of the message on the social network. Training the predictive model can comprise using the metadata collected from monitoring of the social network for example as a training set to train the predictive model. In one embodiment the predictive model can be trained with the metadata associated propagation of information on the social network such as the propagation metadata associated with the positive information propagation feedback on the social network at . Further in one embodiment the predictive model can be trained with metadata associated with non propagation of information on the social network such as the non propagation metadata associated with the negative information propagation feedback on the social network at .

As an example training a predictive model can comprise running one or more classifiers over a training set comprising typical input data and output results. In this example the predictive model can learn from the examples in the training set such that when non training data is input to the predictive model the resulting output comprises a prediction of probability that the input data would result in the output e.g. using a percentage probability a range of values or most likely value for the input . In one embodiment while the training can result in a trained predictive model the trained predictive model may be updated periodically or continually using collected metadata from a subsequent or continuous monitoring of the social network for propagation information.

At in the example embodiment user based information can be input into the trained predictive model to determine the probability of propagation of the message on the social network. The user based information can comprise a content of the message posted by the user e.g. author of the originally posted message subject to propagation to the social network . For example the content of the user message can comprise a particular theme topic and or keywords that may be used to determine a probability of propagation.

Further the user based information input to the trained predictive model can comprise a desired time period of propagation. For example the user author may wish to post the message immediately for which the time can be identified or at a later desired time which may be provided by the user. The time period may also be used to determine a probability of propagation for the message for example.

In one embodiment the user based information input to the trained predictive model can comprise user connections on the social network . For example the user author s social network connections may correspond to propagators or not that were identified during the monitoring of the social network. In this example a connection that tends to propagate information e.g. or have propagation tendencies based on time and or content may influence the determining of a probability of propagation of the message e.g. as would a connection that tends to be a non propagator . Additionally connections of the user author s connections e.g. and so on can be identified and provided as user based information input to the trained predictive model to facilitate in determining a probability of propagation for the message.

At in the example embodiment the probability of propagation of the message on the social network can be retrieved from the trained predictive model . In one embodiment the probability of propagation can comprise a total number of connections predicted to receive the message posted by the user. For example based on the user based information input the trained predictive model may determine that X number of connections e.g. connected to the user in the social network comprising connections to the user s connections etc. are likely to receive the message through propagation. As an illustrative example if the user has only five connections and each one reposts the message and each of the five connections has five connections who do not repost the message will be received by thirty connections e.g. the five user connections plus the twenty five other connections .

In another embodiment the probability of propagation can comprise a number of connections receiving the message over a desired time period. For example the trained predictive model may determine that over a next Y period of time X number of connections will receive the message e.g. sixty connections in the first hour two hundred in two hours one thousand in a week etc. .

As an illustrative example messages posted by the user author are not typically viewed by all their connections at a same time but over a period of time e.g. as connections access the social network and view updates receive emails receive texts receive phone calls etc. . In this example various connections can receive the message and decide to propagate the message or not over the period of time and their connections may then receive the propagated message and decide to propagate or not the message and so on. In this embodiment the desired time period for the retrieved probability may be set by the user or may be set automatically e.g. programmatically to achieve a desired result.

In another embodiment the probability of propagation can comprise a probability of respective connections on the social network receiving the message. For example a potential reach of the message posted by the user on the social network may be predicted as a probability of propagation. As an illustrative example a likelihood of propagation of a certain type of message at and or within a certain time can be determined for respective connections in the social network e.g. comprising those in the network with some connection to the user author that have propagated information during the monitoring of the social network . In this example using the likelihood of propagation the trained predictive model can determine a probability that the message will be propagated to respective connections to the user e.g. by combining a likelihood of propagation value for respective levels of connection to the user .

Alternate message content and or alternate timing information may be identified and input to the trained predictive model to determine an alternate probability of propagation. For example alternate content and alternate timing for posting the message may be identified during the training of the predictive model such as from metadata in the training set. At probabilities for respective combinations of alternate content and or alternate timing data can be retrieved from the trained predictive model .

In this way for example when the user based information for the user message is run through the trained predictive model e.g. of content adjustment information e.g. suggestions for adjusting a theme topic and or keywords and or time adjustment information e.g. suggestions for posting the message at an alternate time can be provided. As an illustrative example the user may wish to post a message comprising a computer gaming theme immediately. In this example based on the retrieved probabilities of combinations of alternate content and or timing information particular keywords may be provided that could increase a probability of propagation of the message e.g. reach more connections . Further in this example an alternate time for posting the message e.g. at lunch time when more people check there social networks may be provided that could increase a likelihood of propagation e.g. more connections within the hour .

At in the example embodiment the message can be altered to comprise some or all of the provided adjustments e.g. at least some of the content adjustments and or at least some of the time adjustments for example either by the user or automatically e.g. programmatically based on some preset criteria . At the altered message can be posted to the social network at a desired time e.g. immediately or at a suggested alternate time either by the user or automatically.

A system can be devised for predicting propagation of information on a social network for example and for using the predictions to improve propagation of a message. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for predicting propagation of a message on a social network. A computer based processor is configured to process data for the system. The computer based processor is operably coupled with a predictive model component that is trained to determine a probability of propagation of information on the social network . The predictive model component is trained using both positive and negative information propagation feedback from the social network and configured to determine a probability of propagation of the message e.g. user message on the social network .

The social network monitoring component can comprise a metadata collection component that collects positive and negative information propagation metadata for use in a training set used to train the predictive model. A predictive model training component can train the predictive model using both positive and negative information propagation feedback e.g. metadata from the social network to determine a probability of propagation of information on the social network .

The positive information propagation metadata can comprise information that is related to propagation of a user message on the social network e.g. forwarding or reposting the user message . In one embodiment the information related to propagation of a user message can comprise an identity of the user that authored originated the message an identity of a connection to the user that propagated the message content of the message and or a time period associated with the propagation of the message etc.

The negative information propagation metadata comprising information that is related to non propagation e.g. not forwarding or ignoring of a user message on the social network . In one embodiment the information related to non propagation of a user message can comprise an identity of the user authoring the message an identity of a connection to the user that did not propagate the message e.g. but may have previously propagated a message content of the message and or a time period associated with the non propagation of the message etc.

In one embodiment the positive and negative information propagation feedback from the social network is collected from a plurality of connections to a user of the social network where the respective connections have propagated at least one message on the social network . For example when a connection on the social network propagates a message on the social network that connection can be monitored for information relating to subsequent propagation or non propagation of information such as from a particular user. In this way for example information related to message propagation can be collected for a plurality of users and their respective connections e.g. including all connections downstream . In one embodiment this collected information can be used in the training set to train the predictive model to predict propagation for a user message .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

