---

title: Strain amplification sensor
abstract: A strain amplification sensor having a first base portion being coupled to a first member to be strain measured, a second base portion being coupled to a second member to be strain measured, and an amplifying lever system pivotally coupled between the first base portion and the second base portion. The amplifying lever system includes attachment locations that induce opposing relative motion resulting in detectable deflection of the amplifying lever system in response to application of strain between the first base portion and the second base portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09546917&OS=09546917&RS=09546917
owner: The Regents of The University Of Michigan
number: 09546917
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150326
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 970 417 filed on Mar. 26 2014 and 62 063 449 filed on Oct. 14 2014. The entire disclosures of each of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under N00014 13 1 525 awarded by the Navy Office of Naval Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to sensors and more particularly relates to passive strain sensors and strain amplification sensor.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art. This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

Passive Strain Sensor are capable of recording strain without any data or power cable tether and can be manufactured and deployed for a fraction of the cost of alternative strain gauges. Commercially available strain gauges have significant limitations when used to monitor a marine structure.

The most common strain gauge uses piezo electric circuits applied to the material in consideration. To support these circuits the sensor requires power and data cables which pass changes in resistance through to an amplifier that using a transfer function provides the experienced strain. These sensors provide real time strain information and sample on the order of kilohertz. Other monitoring methods employ variations of this conventional piezo electric strain gauge.

Application of energy harvesting techniques and wireless data transmission allows strain gauges to be deployed without a power or data cable. Both of these options have limitations. Energy harvesting techniques heavily rely on solar energy for implementation on civil structures. Many locations on structures and infrastructures do not however provide direct sunlight. There are strain gauges which claim to be operable solely using energy harvested from the structure they are monitoring through capturing the energy associated with strain. These sensors have been shown to be unreliable if the material does not experience significant strain for an extended period of time the sensor will deplete its stored energy and cease to function.

Additionally the complexity of these sensors makes them quite costly. Data transmission has been achieved using cellular networks and local wireless networks. Sensors have been deployed on marine structures with wireless data transmission using local networks however without strain energy harvesting these sensors still require a power cable. In the case of marine applications an additional wireless signal onboard a military vessel is unwelcome and it is difficult to justify wireless implementation of data transfer when a power cable will already be required at every monitoring location considering it is possible to simply bundle the data and power cable with negligible additional volume. Thus leading back to the conventional piezo electric strain sensor as the most viable option which requires a central amplifier and power and data transmission cables. Conventional strain sensing systems require tens of thousands of dollars per sensor to implement on civil structures where the monitoring locations are easily accessible.

The alternative strain sensors provided herein can record the experienced strain without requiring a power or data cable or energy harvesting technique. In some embodiments these alternative strain sensors are capable of being 3D printed laser cut CNC d or manufactured using conventional techniques and thus can be manufactured for a fraction of the cost of all alternative sensing methods.

The sensors are capable of recording maximum strain from tensile and compressive loads and can be extended to do so in multiple directions a limitation of all other available sensing options.

Conventional strain gauges provide a wealth of data that needs to be interpreted to yield relevant information to decision makers. Presently structural health monitoring SHM researchers are swimming in a sea of data producing little information. This is largely because the strain gauges and other sensors provide data that needs to be condensed stored and analyzed by methods such as rain flow counting which removes time history indexing in order to make the large amount of data manageable and ultimately interpretable. Analyzing the plethora of data produced by strain sensors is tedious and much of the data is superfluous. Ultimately using this data to produce relevant and accurate structural health information for decisions is difficult.

Research is being conducted using Bayesian networks BN and other modeling techniques to update design stage engineering assumptions to more closely match the current condition of a structure. Information provided to the BN in the present model is minimal in comparison with many of the SHM updating schemes. The network is presently only updated with information observed from physical inspections such as fatigue crack initiation and permanent set and has shown promising updating power. Additional updating power can be achieved by providing the network with the stress experienced at relevant encoded fatigue prone details. It is expected that the addition of this data imposed as evidence to the network would increase its prognosis accuracy for structural health and reliability. Extending a BN capable of accurate structural reliability prognosis to a decision support tool would be the next step. This could provide decision makers with accurate structural health information necessary to make decisions related to the structure s safety and reliability.

In some embodiments the sensor system of the present teachings can comprise an additional appendage or component can be used to record the maximum experienced strain. In some embodiments multi axial strain measurement can be obtained using the same device through additional lever systems. These embodiments like the aforementioned embodiments can record strain measurements as a standalone unit without requiring a power or data cable or energy harvesting technique. Furthermore the sensor can be fabricated using additive manufacturing techniques and thus can be made for a fraction of the cost of all alternative sensing methods.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. In some example embodiments well known processes well known device structures and well known technologies are not described in detail.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms may be only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Terms such as first second and other numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

According to the principles of the present teachings in some embodiments a Passive Strain Sensor PSS is provided that employs mechanical methods to record strain. Generally as schematically illustrated in the Passive Strain Sensor records maximum strain through a sensor arm progressing down a step like geometry as strain is imposed between the sensor arm s mounted location and the pyramid both points being fixed to the surface of the material for which strain is being measured.

The Passive Strain Sensor operates off of basic physical properties. When the length between the two fixed elements increases large enough such that the sensor arm is free to fall to the next shelf or step A B C D the pretension in the sensor arm forces it to do so the resting position of the sensor arm providing no internal stress is resting on the lowest step. Thus the maximum deflection is recorded by the location of the sensor arm s position on the steps. It is possible to digitally record the maximum strain through a variety of possible configurations of electrodes placed on the sensor arm and step components providing varying resistance depending on the arm location or closing of circuits. The configuration displayed only records the maximum strain due to tensile loads however simply mirroring the steps and sensor arm would provide recording of maximum tensile and compressive strain.

Given the maximum change in length and the initial distance between the two points fixed to the material using Equations we can find the maximum stress experienced in the material. This information can then be provided to the Bayesian Network to predict fatigue life. 1 2 3 

The fidelity of the sensor can be increased through lengthening the sensor. Fidelity and sensor length are inversely proportional as demonstrated by Equation 3.

Passive Strain Sensor can be manufactured via additive manufacturing techniques laser cutting CNC or conventional manufacturing techniques. However Passive Strain Sensor do not require a power source do not rely on energy harvesting data acquisition system or associated tether and is therefore simple to install and monitor and provides strain information orders of magnitude cheaper than alternative systems.

In some embodiments as illustrated in by changing the stairs steps A D on the Passive Strain Sensor to a lever amplification mechanism strain can be amplified to be visibly recorded with greater resolution for both tension and compression. A Strain Amplification Sensor SAS like the Passive Strain Sensor can record strain measurements as a standalone unit without requiring a power or data cable or energy harvesting technique as explained herein. This alternative strain sensor can also be fabricated using additive manufacturing techniques laser cutting CNC or conventional techniques and thus can be made for a fraction of the cost of all alternative sensing methods.

As illustrated in in some embodiments Strain Amplification Sensor is an assembly utilizing mechanical methods to record strain. The Strain Amplification Sensor measures and or records strain in both tension and compression through a sensor arm activating a series of three amplifying members or lever arms . It should be understood that although the present teachings will discuss the use of three amplifying members additional amplifying members can be used. The attachment location of the second lever arm to the third and final lever arm induces opposing relative motion between the second lever arm and the third lever arm . In some embodiments this interaction further improves amplification by providing a total amplification of over times that which is experienced making it possible for visual recording.

Still referring to Strain Amplification Sensor is illustrated as being secured to the material being measured by adhesion of the two base plates perpendicular to long sensor arm beam connecting the two sides . The left hand side contains the amplifying lever system and the right hand side simply provides a fixture for inducing relative motion on the device from the material being measured.

As the distance between the two base plates increases or decreases the lever amplification system is activated. illustrates the lever system reaction to an increased distance between the two base plates . The second lever arm moves away from the system while the third lever arm moves towards the system. Strain is recorded by the location of the end of second lever arm on an arcuate slot of third lever arm . Recording the location of the relative motion of these two arms over the slot can be accomplished by fixing either a writing utensil or permanent magnet to the end of the second arm . The writing utensil for visual inspection by marking the third arm which may also serve as a method of time history recording. Optical recording is also possible by observing the motions of the pointer on the measurement face over time. This would provide a time history of experienced strain.

With reference to additional detail of amplifying lever system is illustrated. As can be seen in some embodiments sensor arm is pivotally coupled at end to first lever arm via a pivot . As illustrated in sensor arm may be rigid or a line held in tension by a restoring spring mounted to base plate via another pin. This allows for measurement of displacement between two points in both tension and compression. The tensioned line is rigidly mounted to the material being measured akin to rigid sensor arm . It should also be noted in that third lever arm may be formed as a complete circular member for enhanced balance of third lever arm and to provide improved balancing of first lever arm . First lever arm is pivotally coupled to base plate via a pivot see at a first end . First lever arm further comprises a cam slot extending longitudinally along first lever arm . Cam slot is disposed at an opposing end . A cam is received within cam slot for camming motion therein. Cam is further fixedly coupled to an end of second lever arm and third lever arm see . It is also possible to reverse the configuration such that first lever arm comprises a downward facing pin in place of cam slot and lever receives the pin in a slot on the top of the face.

Second lever arm is pivotally coupled to base plate via a pivot . In this way second lever arm is operable to pivot about pivot in response to application of force from first lever arm through the rotation of first lever arm about pivot in response to sensor arm . This causes cam to cam along cam slot thereby exerting a force on second lever arm . Cam is positioned near pivot thereby causing an increased or exaggerated deflection of opposing end of second lever arm .

Similarly third lever arm is operable to pivot about pivot in response to application of force from first lever arm through the rotation of first lever arm about pivot . This causes cam to cam along cam slot thereby exerting a force on third lever arm . Cam is positioned near pivot thereby causing an increased or exaggerated deflection of opposing end of third lever arm . Third lever arm can comprise an arcuate slot to receive pivot therethrough to permit free articulation of third lever arm about pivot .

Furthermore second lever arm can comprise a pin extending from opposing end that can be slidingly or cammingly received within slot of third lever arm . In some embodiments as illustrated in slot can comprise a dumbbell or other marker that can be used to mark a location or an extreme deflection of second lever arm relative to third lever arm for recordation of strain. That is in some embodiments an incremented place holder can be pushed along slot to record the maximum experienced strain. There are a variety of methods that can be employed to secure the dumbbell or other place holder on the track but a sine wave on both sides along the slot top and bottom would provide securement at increments along the slot. Multiple dumbbells can be used of various sizes can be used to record tensile and compressive strain. Dumbbells can vary in size to allow the second lever to pass over in the event of tensile to compressive strain and vice versa. Pin may also be a writing utensil marking the face of the third lever arm . Marking thickness and darkness can be used to determine number and distance of passage of pin over lever providing strain time history recording. A thin film or other recording media may be placed over slot and a sharp utensil as pin . As the sharp utensil passes over the film or recording media the increasing length of the created tear can record strain time history.

Greater amplification can be achieved through addition or dimensional changes of lever arms in the amplification mechanism in a configuration similar to the first and second lever arms.

In some embodiments the Strain Amplification Sensor is a 3D printed plastic assembly with only mechanical methods to record strain. The Strain Amplification Sensor records strain in both tension and compression through a sensor arm activating amplifying lever system . The attachment location of the second lever arm to the third and final lever arm induces opposing relative motion between the second lever arm and the third . This interaction further improves amplification providing a total amplification in some embodiments of over times that which is experienced making it possible for visual recording. However it should be understood that the magnitude of amplification is dependent upon the dimensions and pivot locations of the lever arms which can be varied as desired for the particular application.

Third lever arm is not limited to the pie shape as depicted. A circular shape provides balance for decreased internal friction for varying mounting orientations. Similarly lever arms and are not limited to bars they too can be designed with varying shapes for balance to reduce internal friction realized from non vertical mounting orientations.

As seen in modification of the second lever arm with the addition of two lever appendages that pivot about either side of the second lever arm provides the ability to record the maximum experienced strain. Coupled with the addition of a series of sawtooth teeth on third lever member see the two appendage levers are pushed along the tooth tracks. The higher the strain the greater the distance the appendage arm moves up the track and stays. Lever two is free to re center and the appendage levers will remain fixed to the point of maximum strain.

Multi axial strain can be recorded with one strain amplification sensor by placing additional base plates along the desired axes. Layering the equivalent number of sets of levers and for each base plate provides a compact display of experienced strain along the axes on which the base plates are adhered. Multiple layers of lever sets can be achieved by extending the pivot pins and placing spacers between each set. Offsetting the resting location of lever and lever for each layer aids in visual observation of each axis of strain when viewed from the top. The maximum strain value and time history recording features discussed above can be implemented on each of these lever sets.

The present teachings may find utility in a wide variety of applications including monitoring structural health of any one of the following industry sectors manufacturing quality control processes material testing processes marine commercial ships naval vessels offshore oil and gas rigs civil bridges buildings and infrastructure and aerospace commercial and military.

The present teachings further provide a number of advantage over conventional solutions including but not limited to orders of magnitude cheaper than the cost of conventional system no power supply necessary does not rely on captured energy and data acquisition system and tether are unnecessary.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

