---

title: Facilitation of security employing a femto cell access point
abstract: One or more femto cell access points (FAPs) are employed to facilitate provisioning of security. A signal indicative of an intrusion in an area associated with an FAP can be received, and, based on receiving the signal, an identifier associated with a device in a detection range of the FAP can be determined. One or more frequencies in the detection range of the femto cell access point can be jammed, an attachment attempt emitted from the device in response to jamming the frequencies can be detected, and a telephone number of the device can be identified based, at least, on detecting the attachment attempt from the device. Warnings can also be sent to the device and/or tracking of the device can be performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485051&OS=09485051&RS=09485051
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09485051
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150911
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 451 234 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 166 732 filed Apr. 19 2012 and entitled FACILITATION OF SECURITY EMPLOYING A FEMTO CELL ACCESS POINT the entirety of which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to various embodiments that facilitate security employing a femto cell access point.

One purpose of home security systems is to try to determine that an intrusion into a secure area has occurred. However information regarding the intruder is often limited and at times non existent. In some instances of intrusion an image of the intruder may be captured via video camera filming the secure area. However an image of the intruder is of limited utility. Additionally because there is a inherent delay between the time that intrusion is detected and the arrival of law enforcement intruders often escape and thereby stolen property may be permanently lost.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative embodiments of the embodiments. These embodiments are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments can be employed. Other features of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It is evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details and without applying to any particular networked environment or standard .

As used in this application the terms component module system interface platform service framework connector controller or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or application programming interface API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example and exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an instance or illustration. Any embodiment or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or designs. Rather use of the word example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms such as user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station access terminal terminal handset mobile device and or terms representing similar terminology can refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably herein and with reference to the related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station BS Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB and the like are utilized interchangeably in the application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that transmits and or receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from one or more subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout unless context warrants particular distinctions among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based at least on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Embodiments described herein can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology including but not limited to Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Zigbee and other 802.XX wireless technologies and or legacy telecommunication technologies. Further the term femto and femto cell are used interchangeably and the terms macro and macro cell are used interchangeably.

With the onslaught of communications and advancement of technology the use of femto cells FAPs in commercial and residential areas is widespread. In the past FAPs have been utilized for traditional facilitation of communication of mobile devices listed on a white list for the FAP. In this regard various embodiments disclosed herein facilitate security using FAPs.

In one embodiment a method can comprise receiving by a system comprising at least one processor a signal indicative of an intrusion in an area associated with a femto cell access point and determining by the system an identifier associated with a device in a detection range of the femto cell access point the determining being based at least on the receiving the signal indicative of the intrusion.

In another embodiment a system can comprise a memory that stores computer executable instructions and a processor that is communicatively coupled to the memory and that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to at least receive a signal indicative of an intrusion in an area associated with a femto cell access point and determine an identifier associated with a device in a detection range of the femto cell access point based at least on reception of the signal indicative of the intrusion.

In another embodiment a computer readable storage medium can have computer executable instructions stored thereon that in response to execution cause a computing system comprising at least one processor to perform operations. The operations can comprise receiving a signal indicative of an intrusion in an area associated with a femto cell access point determining an identifier associated with a device in a detection range of the femto cell access point the determining being based at least on the receiving the signal being indicative of the intrusion jamming a frequency in the detection range of the femto cell access point detecting an attachment attempt emitted from the device in response to the jamming the frequency and identifying a telephone number of the device based at least on the detecting the attachment attempt from the device.

Various embodiments described herein relate to facilitating security employing one or more FAPs. In some embodiments an FAP in an area can receive a signal indicative of an intrusion e.g. burglary in the area. The FAP can receive the signal from a security system associated with providing security for the area for example. In response to receiving the signal indicative of the intrusion the FAP can discover an identification and or telephone number of a device e.g. cellular telephone in the area of the intrusion that may be associated with the intruder. In some embodiments the FAP can discover the identification and or telephone number for the device by jamming one or more frequencies in the detection range of the FAP and detecting one or more attachment attempts emitted from the device in response to jamming the frequency on which the device would transmit. The FAP can store the information retrieved transmit the information to law enforcement initiate a warning associated with the intrusion and or initiate tracking of the device.

One or more embodiments can advantageously increase the likelihood of shortening intrusion time eliminating the theft of property and or apprehension of suspects in intrusions. One or more embodiments can also advantageously block communication from a device associated with an intruder to reduce the likelihood that the intruder can coordinate escape from a burglarized area.

The security system and the FAP can be located in a secure area e.g. a commercial building residential building gated open air area or the like . In some embodiments the security system and or the FAP are located outside of the secure area while serving the secure area . For example the FAP can be located outside of the secure area while emitting signals that provide connectivity to mobile devices that can be located inside of the secure area .

The security system can monitor and detect an intrusion into the secure area . In some embodiments the security system can transmit a signal to the FAP in response to detection of the intrusion. The security system can transmit the signal to the FAP via a wired and or wireline connection in various embodiments.

The core network can be or can include a wireless or wired network to which the FAP is communicatively coupled in some embodiments. For example the core network can include a broadband landline to which the FAP is communicatively coupled. As another example the core network can be or include one or more public cell sites. For example the core network can include the public cell site to which a mobile device in an area served by the FAP would be communicatively coupled immediately upon leaving the wireless channel associated with the FAP . In some embodiments the core network can include one or more macro cells communicatively coupled to the FAP .

The FAP can provide one or more access point services to one or more mobile devices on the white list of the FAP . Additionally the FAP can be configured to conduct network listening on the mobility network within a selected geographical proximity to the FAP . Based on the network listening the FAP can determine one or more frequencies in the area serviced by the FAP . In various embodiments the FAP can store the frequencies detected for use in facilitating security via jamming operations as described herein.

The FAP can transmit and or receive information to and or from the security system and or core network . In some embodiments the FAP can receive the signal indicative of an intrusion into the secure area . The FAP can receive the signal from the security system in some embodiments. In other embodiments the FAP can receive the signal from any number of other sources capable of determining that an intrusion has occurred and or capable of receiving information about the intrusion from the security system . For example the FAP could receive the signal indicative of the intrusion from a network operator contacted by the security system .

In response to receiving the signal indicative of the intrusion the FAP can perform identification warning and or tracking functions on devices in the area served by the FAP .

The structure and or functionality of the FAP will now be described in more detail with reference to the remaining figures. Turning first to illustrates an example FAP e.g. FAP that can be employed to facilitate security. illustrates an example data storage of the FAP through which security can be facilitated. The FAP can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of the FAP described with reference to .

The FAP can include a communication component a jamming component a device identification component a white list component a warning generation component a tracking initiation component a memory a processor and or data storage . In some embodiments one or more of the communication component jamming component device identification component white list component warning generation component tracking initiation component memory processor and or data storage can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the FAP .

The communication component can be configured to transmit and or receive signals to and or from the core network security system and or mobile devices on the white list of the FAP . For example in some embodiments the communication component can receive a signal indicative of an intrusion in an area associated with the FAP . The signal can be received from the security system in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the communication component can perform network listening to determine one or more frequencies serving an area covered by the FAP . The FAP can store the frequency information in data storage of the FAP . In some embodiments the frequency information can be stored at a location remote from the FAP and accessed during an intrusion.

The jamming component can jam one or more frequencies in the detection range of the FAP in response to the communication component receiving the signal indicative of the intrusion. In some embodiments jamming can be commenced upon activation of a security system alarm or other indicator that an intrusion has occurred. In various embodiments the frequencies jammed can be the one or more frequencies identified during network listening performed by the communication component .

In some embodiments the jamming component can jam the one or more frequencies until a telephone number or other identification for the device in the detection range of the FAP that fails to be on the white list of the FAP is retrieved. The white list of the FAP can be stored in the data storage .

In some embodiments the jamming component can jam the one or more frequencies until a telephone number or other identification for a device in the area served by the FAP is retrieved. As such in various embodiments devices associated with information or telephone numbers that appear on an access attempt list for the FAP can also be determined as persons carrying such devices could be intruders into secure areas.

After retrieval of the telephone number and or identification the jamming component can cease jamming the frequencies. As such one or more telephone calls to the device associated with the intruder and or to or from a telephone on a white list of the FAP can be commenced during or after the intrusion. In some embodiments the jamming component can cease jamming the one or more frequencies after a selected period of time. Accordingly the amount of time during which the frequencies are jammed and communication disabled through the FAP can be limited.

In some embodiments in response to jamming the signal on which a device carried by an intruder is configured to transmit the device can emit an attachment attempt that can be retrieved by the FAP . Based on the attachment attempt the FAP can determine the identification and or telephone number associated with the device.

The device identification component can determine and or record or store an identifier associated with devices in a detection range of the FAP that fail to be listed on the white list of the FAP and or devices otherwise deemed to be associated with an intruder . In some embodiments the device identification component can detect the attachment attempt emitted from the device and the white list component can determine that the device fails to be listed on the white list of the FAP .

The device identification component can determine the device information and or telephone number based on the attachment attempt. The device information and or telephone number information can be stored in the data storage of the FAP in some embodiments. In various embodiments the device information can include a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI .

The FAP can transmit the device information and or telephone number to law enforcement the security system a command center for the security system or the like.

In some embodiments the communication component can transmit and or receive signals to and or from devices deemed to be associated with the intruder during an intrusion.

In particular the FAP can include information indicative of exception cases wherein the FAP allows attachment by one or more devices that fail to appear on the white list of the FAP . In one embodiments the FAP can allow devices in the area served by the FAP to attach to the FAP during an intrusion notwithstanding the device fails to appear on the white lit for the FAP . In some embodiments the FAP can allow devices in the area served by the FAP to attach to the FAP notwithstanding the device fails to appear on the white lit for the FAP during a particular time of day day of week month or year and or during particular days weeks or months. In various embodiments the exception can be updated to address special circumstances of the property owner e.g. to coincide with times during which the property owner expects to be away from the secure area . As such the FAP can allow communication via the FAP with a device potentially associated with an intruder during an intrusion.

In some cases if the device that is discovered during the intrusion is not listed on the white list for the FAP the FAP does not allow the device to attach to the FAP . Accordingly while the device is detached from the FAP and frequencies are being jammed the device is unable to transmit and or receive telephone calls.

The warning generation component can generate a signal to initiate one or more different types of warnings of the intrusion. In various embodiments the warnings can be automated warnings that are generated automatically in response to the detection of the device identification and or telephone number of the device deemed to be associated with an intruder.

In some embodiments for example the warning generation component can generate warnings in the form of telephone calls transmitted to the device associated with the intruder. The telephone calls can warn the intruder that the burglary has been identified and or that law enforcement will be arriving shortly.

In some embodiments the warning generation component can transmit information to the security system . The security system and or a command center associated with the security system can transmit a warning to the secure area in some embodiments. For example in some embodiments the warning generation component can generate a signal that causes an audio device in the secure area to emit a warning. In these examples audio communication via speaker or other device in the secure area can be employed to output an audible warning.

The tracking initiation component can initiate tracking of the device associated with the intruder. Tracking can be initiated and or performed in a number of different ways. For example in some embodiments the FAP can allow the device to attach to the FAP notwithstanding the device is not on the white list of the FAP . The FAP can then track whether the device is attached to the FAP or whether the device is detached from the FAP and has thus left the area served by the FAP . In embodiments wherein the device is tracked such that the tracking initiation component is able to determine whether the device is still in the area associated with the FAP such information can be provided to law enforcement and or owners of the secure area experiencing the intrusion. Accordingly in various embodiments safety for law enforcement and property owners and or the likelihood of apprehension of intruders can be enhanced.

In another embodiment the tracking initiation component can generate a signal to cause text messages to be sent to the device deemed to be associated with the intruder. The tracking initiation component can track the location of the device based at least on signals received in response to the text messages sent to the device.

In another embodiment the tracking initiation component can communicate with a macro cell in a core network to which the FAP is communicatively coupled. The tracking initiation component can transmit to the macro cell information indicative of the device identification and or telephone number. The macro cell can initiate tracking of the location of the device upon commencement of a telephone call from the macro cell. Accordingly in some embodiments the device can be tracked hours and or days after the intrusion has occurred to increase the likelihood of intruder apprehension. In some embodiments the tracking can be global positioning system GPS tracking.

Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the FAP . The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information configured to perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the FAP .

The data storage can be configured to store information transmitted to received by and or processed by the FAP . The data storage can be described in greater detail with reference to .

Turning first to a method that facilitates security employing an FAP is provided. At method can include receiving a signal indicative of an intrusion in an area associated with an FAP. At method can include determining an identifier associated with a device in a detection range of the FAP. Determining can be based at least on receiving the signal indicative of the intrusion.

Turning now to a method that facilitates security employing an FAP is provided. At method can include jamming frequencies in the detection range of the FAP. At method can include detecting an attachment attempt emitted from a device in response to the jammed frequencies. At method can include identifying a telephone number of the device based at least on detecting the attachment attempt from the device.

Turning now to another method that facilitates security employing an FAP is provided. At method can include jamming frequencies in the detection range of the FAP. At method can include determining a telephone number of a device that fails to be listed on a white list for the FAP wherein the determining is in response to the jamming of the frequencies. At method can include ceasing to jam frequencies in response to the determination of the telephone number of the device that fails to be listed on the white list for the FAP.

Turning now to yet another method that facilitates security employing an FAP is provided. At method can include obtaining an identifier for a device associated with an intrusion in an area served by an FAP. At method can include transmitting a signal to initiate tracking on a macro cell communicatively coupled to the FAP. In various embodiments a tracking area update can be initiated on the macro cell. In various embodiments the tracking can include tracking a telephone call initiated via the macro cell. In various embodiments method can include changing Location Area in UMTS or GSM systems or Tracking Area in LTE systems to initiate tracking area updates.

Turning now to yet another method that facilitates security employing an FAP is provided. At method can include obtaining an identifier for a device associated with an intrusion in an area served by an FAP. At method can include transmitting a text message to the device. At method can include receiving a signal from the device in response to the text message. At method can include determining a location of the device based at least on the signal from the device.

Turning now to yet another method that facilitates security employing an FAP is provided. At method can include obtaining an identifier for a device associated with an intrusion in an area served by an FAP. At method can include generating a signal to initiate transmission of a warning to the device. In some embodiments the warning can include information indicative of notification of law enforcement. Although not shown in some embodiments a warning can be transmitted from a command center associated with a home security system that generates the signal indicative of the intrusion.

Within macro cell coverage cell a femto cell served by a FAP can be deployed. For example FAP can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of FAP described herein.

A femto cell typically can cover an area that can be determined at least in part by transmission power allocated to FAP path loss shadowing and so forth. Coverage area typically can be spanned by a coverage radius that detection ranges from 20 to 50 meters. Confined coverage area can be generally associated with an indoors area or a building which can span about 5000 sq. ft. In some embodiments the indoors area or building can be or include secure area .

Generally FAP typically can service a number e.g. a few or more wireless devices e.g. subscriber station within confined coverage area . In an embodiment FAP can integrate seamlessly with substantially any packet switched PS based and circuit switched CS based network for instance FAP can integrate into an existing 3GPP Core via conventional interfaces like Iu CS Iu PS Gi and or Gn interfaces. In another embodiment FAP can exploit high speed downlink packet access in order to accomplish substantive bitrates. In yet another embodiment FAP has a location area code LAC and or routing area code RAC that can be different from the underlying macro cell network. These LAC and RAC can be used to identify subscriber station location for a variety of reasons most notably to direct incoming voice and data traffic to appropriate paging transmitters.

As a subscriber station e.g. UE can leave macro cell coverage e.g. cell and enter femto cell coverage e.g. area as illustrated in environment . In some embodiments a carrier frequency scan can be triggered by the UE which can detect the FAP . UE can attempt to attach to the FAP through transmission and reception of attachment signaling effected via a forward link FL reverse link RL in an embodiment the attachment signaling can include a Location Area Update LAU and or Routing Area Update RAU . Attachment attempts can be a part of procedures to ensure mobility so voice calls and sessions can continue even after a macro cell to femto cell transition or vice versa. It is noted that UE can be employed seamlessly after either of the foregoing transitions.

As described above in various embodiments FAP can jam frequencies for a UE in the area of the FAP and UE can emit attachment attempts in response to the jamming. The FAP can detect device information and or telephone information for UE based on the attachment attempt emitted from UE .

Femto cell networks can be designed to serve stationary or slow moving traffic with reduced signaling loads compared to macro cell networks. A femto cell service provider e.g. an entity that commercializes deploys and or utilizes FAP therefore can be inclined to minimize unnecessary LAU RAU signaling activity at substantially any opportunity to do so and through substantially any available means. It is noted that substantially any mitigation of unnecessary attachment signaling control can be advantageous for femto cell operation. Conversely if not successful UE generally can be commanded through a variety of communication means to select another LAC RAC or enter emergency calls only mode. It can be appreciated that this attempt and handling process can occupy significant UE battery and FAP capacity and signaling resources as well.

When an attachment attempt is successful UE can be allowed to camp on femto cell and incoming voice and data traffic can be paged and routed to the subscriber station through the FAP . As described above in various embodiments an FAP can allow a UE associated with an intruder into secure area to attach to FAP in the case in which an exception to the rules governing the white list for the FAP occurs.

Data traffic can be routed through a backhaul broadband wired network backbone e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line DSL or coaxial cable . In some embodiments an FAP can rely on a backhaul network backbone for routing and paging and for packet communication substantially any quality of service can handle heterogeneous packetized traffic. Namely packet flows established for wireless communication devices e.g. terminals and served by FAP and for devices served through the backhaul network pipe . To improve the likelihood of positive subscriber experience or perception FAP can maintain a high level of throughput for traffic e.g. voice and data utilized on a mobile device for one or more subscribers while in the presence of external additional packetized or broadband traffic associated with applications e.g. web browsing data transfer e.g. content upload and the like executed in devices within the femto cell coverage area e.g. area or area .

To provide further context for various embodiments described herein illustrate an example wireless communication environment with associated components for operation of a femto cell and a block diagram of an example embodiment of a FAP which can facilitate utilizing an FAP to facilitate security.

Wireless communication environment includes two wireless network platforms i A macro cell network platform that serves or facilitates communication with user equipment via a macro cell radio access network RAN 1170. It should be appreciated that in cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS high speed packet access HSPA 3GPP LTE 3GPP ultra mobile broadband UMB macro cell network platform can be embodied in a Core Network. ii A femto cell network platform which can provide communication with UE through a femto cell RAN linked to the femto cell network platform via backhaul pipe s 1185 wherein backhaul pipe s are substantially the same a backhaul link . It should be appreciated that femto cell network platform typically offloads UE from macro cell network once UE attaches e.g. through macro to femto cell handover or via a scan of channel resources in idle mode to femto cell RAN.

A RAN can include one or more base stations or APs and its associated electronic circuitry and deployment cell site s in addition to a wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s . Accordingly macro cell RAN can comprise various coverage cells like cell while femto cell RAN can comprise multiple FAPs. As mentioned above deployment density in femto cell RAN can be substantially higher than in macro cell RAN .

Generally both macro cell and femto cell network platforms and can include components e.g. nodes gateways interfaces servers or platforms that facilitate both PS and CS traffic e.g. voice and data and control generation for networked wireless communication. For example macro cell network platform includes CS gateway node s which can interface CS traffic received from legacy networks like telephony network s e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN or public land mobile network PLMN or a SS7 network . Moreover CS gateway node s interfaces CS based traffic and signaling and gateway node s .

In addition to receiving and processing CS switched traffic and signaling gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with served e.g. through macro cell RAN wireless devices. Data sessions can include traffic exchange with networks external to the macro cell network platform like wide area network s WANs it should be appreciated that local area network s LANs can also be interfaced with macro cell network platform through gateway node s . Gateway node s can generate packet data contexts when a data session is established. It should be further appreciated that the packetized communication can include multiple flows that can be generated through server s . Macro cell network platform also includes serving node s that convey the various packetized flows of information or data streams received through gateway node s . Server s can include one or more processor configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macro cell network platform . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example.

In example wireless environment memory stores information related to operation of macro cell network platform . Information can include business data associated with subscribers market plans and strategies e.g. promotional campaigns business partnerships operational data for mobile devices served through macro cell network platform service and privacy policies end user service logs for law enforcement . Memory can also store information from at least one of telephony network s wide area network WAN or signaling system number 7 SS7 network .

Femto cell gateway node s have substantially the same functionality as PS gateway node s . Additionally femto cell gateway node s can also include substantially all functionality of serving node s . In an embodiment femto cell gateway node s facilitates handover resolution e.g. assessment and execution . Server s have substantially the same functionality as described in connection with server s and can include one or more processors configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macro cell network platform . Moreover the analysis component can be implemented or executed by server s and or server s . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example.

Memory can include information relevant to operation of the various components of femto cell network platform . For example operational information that can be stored in memory can comprise but is not limited to subscriber information contracted services maintenance and service records femto cell configuration e.g. devices served through femto cell RAN access control lists or white lists service policies and specifications privacy policies add on features femto cell measurement data .

With respect to in example embodiment FAP can receive and transmit signal s e.g. traffic and control signals from and to wireless devices access terminals wireless ports and routers etc. through a set of antennas . It should be appreciated that while antennas are a part of communication platform which comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provides for processing and manipulating of received signal s e.g. a packet flow and signal s e.g. a broadcast control channel to be transmitted. In an embodiment communication platform includes a transmitter receiver e.g. a transceiver that can convert signal s from analog format to digital format upon reception and from digital format to analog format upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to transceiver is a multiplexer demultiplexer that facilitates manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. Electronic component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator can be also a part of operational group and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like.

FAP also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least partially to substantially any electronic component in the FAP in accordance with embodiments of the embodiments. In particular processor can facilitate FAP to implement configuration instructions received through communication platform which can include storing data in memory . In addition processor facilitates FAP to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Moreover processor can manipulate antennas to facilitate beamforming or selective radiation pattern formation which can benefit specific locations e.g. basement home office served by the FAP and exploit substantially any other advantages associated with smart antenna technology. Memory can store data structures code instructions system or device information like device identification codes e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN or a serial number and specification such as multimode capabilities code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission floor plan configuration AP deployment and frequency plans and so on. Moreover memory can store configuration information such as schedules and policies FAP address es or geographical indicator s access lists e.g. white lists license s for utilization of add features for FAP and so forth. In some embodiments data storage can be implemented in memory .

In embodiment processor is coupled to the memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality to communication platform broadband network interface e.g. a broadband modem and other operational components e.g. multimode chipset s power supply sources that support FAP . In addition various embodiments disclosed herein can also be implemented through i program modules stored in a computer readable storage medium or memory e.g. memory or memory and executed by a processor e.g. processor and or ii one or more other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated embodiments of the embodiments herein can be also practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

The systems and or methods described herein can employ artificial intelligence AI to facilitate automating one or more features in accordance with the embodiments. The embodiments e.g. in connection with automatically identifying acquired cell sites that provide a maximum value benefit after addition to an existing communication network can employ various AI based schemes for carrying out various embodiments thereof. Moreover the classifier can be employed to determine a ranking or priority of the each cell site of the acquired network. A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 . . . xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated one or more of the embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing UE behavior operator preferences historical information receiving extrinsic information . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria which of the acquired cell sites will benefit a maximum number of subscribers and or which of the acquired cell sites will add minimum value to the existing communication network coverage etc. The criteria can include but is not limited to historical patterns UE behavior user preferences service provider preferences and or policies FAP parameters location of the femto cell location of the acquired cell sites etc.

As employed herein the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

As used herein terms such as data storage data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

Memory disclosed herein can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data storages databases of the various embodiments is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes mere examples of various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing these examples but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present embodiments are possible. Accordingly the embodiments disclosed and or claimed herein are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

