---

title: High performance, durable polymers including poly(phenylene)
abstract: The present invention relates to functionalized polymers including a poly(phenylene) structure. In some embodiments, the polymers and copolymers of the invention include a highly localized concentration of acidic moieties, which facilitate proton transport and conduction through networks formed from these polymers. In addition, the polymers can include functional moieties, such as electron-withdrawing moieties, to protect the polymeric backbone, thereby extending its durability. Such enhanced proton transport and durability can be beneficial for any high performance platform that employs proton exchange polymeric membranes, such as in fuel cells or flow batteries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580541&OS=09580541&RS=09580541
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09580541
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151105
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 075 693 filed Nov. 5 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to functionalized polymers including a poly phenylene structure. The structure can include any useful modifications such as one or more acidic moieties and or electron withdrawing moieties. Methods and uses of such polymers are also described herein.

Membrane separators are key components in batteries and fuel cells. Currently Nafion a perfluorinated polymer is the current state of the art. However Nafion is costly. Non fluorinated hydrocarbons are more cost efficient yet exhibit poor oxidative stability which in turn negatively impacts its durability. Thus additional compositions are needed to provide improved polymers having enhanced oxidative stability without sacrificing performance. In particular such improvements should allow the user to control or tune the amount or extent of the fluorinated or hydrophobic components of the polymer.

The present invention relates to polymer compounds and compositions having a poly phenylene structure with modifications useful to promote proton conduction and or to enhance durability by reducing oxidative damage. For instance acidic moieties attached to the polymer backbone provide sites to transport protons. In addition electron withdrawing moieties can be installed on structural sites that could possibly undergo oxidative attack e.g. by one or more metal cations such as vanadium cations . Both types of moieties e.g. acidic and electron withdrawing moieties can be present on the same polymer structure e.g. in the same or different polymer segment thereby providing both enhanced performance and durability.

The present invention also includes polymers having different types of segments e.g. hydrophilic hydrophobic fluorophilic lipophilic etc. segments . In particular embodiments when the polymer includes both hydrophilic and hydrophobic segments e.g. such as in a copolymer the ratio of these two segments can be controlled. Enhanced control in part can allow the user to tune this ratio where the optimal ratio will minimize swelling of the polymer by water or another aqueous solvent. For instance minimizing the hydrophilic segment will generally minimize swelling. Of course if proton conduction is desired the hydrophilic segment is the portion that provides functional groups or moieties e.g. acidic moieties that promote hopping or transport of protons. Thus a skilled artisan would understand that the ratio of the hydrophilic and hydrophobic segments can be optimized to provide maximal proton conduction while minimizing swelling.

Accordingly in one aspect the present invention features a composition e.g. a molecule a monomer a polymer an article etc. including the formula I having the formula I or including a structure having the formula I 

In some embodiments each Ris independently H optionally substituted Calkyl optionally substituted Chaloalkyl optionally substituted Cperfluoroalkyl R R R or R where Ris an acidic moiety including a sulfonyl group Ris an acidic moiety including a phosphoryl group Ris an acidic moiety including a carbonyl group and Ris an electron withdrawing moiety each Aris independently a bivalent linker including optionally substituted arylene each Ris independently H R R R or R each Aris independently a bivalent linker including optionally substituted arylene each q is independently an integer of from 1 to 5 m is an integer of from about 1 to 500. In further embodiments at least one Ror Arin formula I includes R R R or R. In some instances q for Ris 1.

In other embodiments Ris SO OH SOR R SO R SO R R SO R SONRR N R SO R SO NR R or SO NR SO R e.g. where each of R R R R R R and Ris any described herein .

In some embodiments Ris optionally substituted Caryloyl optionally substituted Caryl carboxyaldehyde optionally substituted Calkanoyl optionally substituted Calkyl optionally substituted Chaloalkyl optionally substituted Calkoxycarbonyl nitro cyano sulfo carboxyl and quaternary ammonium e.g. any described herein . In other embodiments Rincludes or is substituted by perfluoroalkyl e.g. Cperfluoroalkyl .

In some embodiments the composition further includes the structure having the formula I covalently bonded to a structure having the formula III 

In another aspect the present invention features a composition e.g. a molecule a monomer a polymer an article etc. including the formula II having the formula II or including a structure having the formula II 

In yet another aspect the present invention features a composition e.g. a molecule a monomer a polymer an article etc. including the formula IV having the formula IV or including a structure having the formula IV 

In another aspect the present invention features a method of forming a polymer the method including reacting the composition of formula IV e.g. including the formula IV having the formula IV or including a structure having the formula IV with a reagent having the structure of formula V 

In some embodiments the method further includes sulfonating the polymer by attaching one or more R e.g. any Rdescribed herein .

In some embodiments the method further includes phosphonating the polymer by attaching one or more R e.g. any Rdescribed herein .

In some embodiments the method further includes carbonylating the polymer by attaching one or more R e.g. any Rdescribed herein .

In other embodiments the method further includes protecting the polymer by attaching one or more R e.g. any Rdescribed herein .

In any embodiment herein L or L or L includes a covalent bond optionally substituted Calkylene optionally substituted Calkyleneoxy optionally substituted Cheteroalkylene optionally substituted Cheteroalkyleneoxy optionally substituted Carylene optionally substituted Caryleneoxy optionally substituted polyphenylene or a structure of formula I . In yet other embodiment L or L or L includes a structure of formula I and Ar e.g. any subunits described herein for Ar .

In any embodiment herein Aror L or L or L includes a structure of formula I a sulfone subunit an arylene sulfone subunit an ether sulfone subunit an arylene ether subunit a perfluoroalkyl subunit or a perfluoroalkoxy subunit.

In any embodiment herein each of Ar Ar and Aris optionally substituted phenylene optionally substituted naphthylene optionally substituted phenanthrylene a sulfone subunit an arylene sulfone subunit an ether sulfone subunit an arylene ether subunit a perfluoroalkyl subunit a perfluoroalkoxy subunit or any described herein e.g. any aryl group described herein . In further embodiments the optional substitution is R R R R or a label e.g. fluorine or another NMR detectable label .

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

The term acyl or alkanoyl as used interchangeably herein represent an alkyl group as defined herein or hydrogen attached to the parent molecular group through a carbonyl group as defined herein. This group is exemplified by formyl acetyl propionyl butanoyl and the like. The alkanoyl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkanoyl group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl. In some embodiments the unsubstituted acyl group is a Cacyl or alkanoyl group.

By alkaryl is meant an aryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an alkylene group as defined herein. Similarly by the term alkheteroaryl is meant a heteroaryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an alkylene group. Other groups preceded by the prefix alk are defined in the same manner. The alkaryl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkaryl group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl and or aryl. Exemplary unsubstituted alkaryl groups are of from 7 to 16 carbons Calkaryl as well as those having an alkylene group with 1 to 6 carbons and an aryl group with 4 to 18 carbons i.e. Calk Caryl .

By alkcycloalkyl is meant a cycloalkyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an alkylene group as defined herein. The alkcycloalkyl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkcycloalkyl group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl.

By alkenyl is meant an optionally substituted Calkyl group having one or more double bonds. The alkenyl group can be cyclic e.g. Ccycloalkenyl or acyclic. The alkenyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkenyl group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl.

By alkheterocyclyl represents a heterocyclyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an alkylene group as defined herein. Exemplary unsubstituted alkheterocyclyl groups are of from 2 to 14 carbons.

By alkoxy is meant OR where R is an optionally substituted alkyl group as described herein. Exemplary alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy butoxy trihaloalkoxy such as trifluoromethoxy etc. The alkoxy group can be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkoxy group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl. Exemplary unsubstituted alkoxy groups include C C C C C C or Calkoxy groups.

By alkoxyalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein which is substituted with an alkoxy group as defined herein. Exemplary unsubstituted alkoxyalkyl groups include between 2 to 12 carbons Calkoxyalkyl as well as those having an alkyl group with 1 to 6 carbons and an alkoxy group with 1 to 6 carbons i.e. Calkoxy Calkyl .

By alkoxycarbonyl is meant an alkoxy group as defined herein that is attached to the parent molecular group through a carbonyl group. In some embodiments an unsubstituted alkoxycarbonyl group is a Calkoxycarbonyl group.

By alkyl and the prefix alk is meant a branched or unbranched saturated hydrocarbon group of atoms such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl n pentyl isopentyl s pentyl neopentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl dodecyl tetradecyl hexadecyl eicosyl tetracosyl and the like. The alkyl group can be cyclic e.g. Ccycloalkyl or acyclic. The alkyl group can be branched or unbranched. The alkyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkyl group can be substituted with one two three or in the case of alkyl groups of two carbons or more four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of 1 Calkoxy 2 Calkylsulfinyl 3 Calkylsulfonyl 4 amino 5 aryl 6 arylalkoxy 7 aryloyl 8 azido 9 cyano 10 carboxyaldehyde 11 Ccycloalkyl 12 halo 13 heterocyclyl 14 heterocyclyloxy 15 heterocyclyloyl 16 hydroxyl 17 N protected amino 18 nitro 19 oxo 20 Cspirocyclyl 21 Cthioalkoxy 22 thiol 23 COR where Ris selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b Calkyl c Caryl and d Calk Caryl 24 C O NRR where each of Rand Ris independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b Calkyl c Caryl and d Calk Caryl 25 SOR where Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Caryl and c Calk Caryl 26 SONRR where each of Rand Ris independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b Calkyl c Caryl and d Calk Caryl and 27 NRR where each of Rand Ris independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b an N protecting group c Calkyl d Calkenyl e Calkynyl f Caryl g Calk Caryl h Ccycloalkyl and i Calk Ccycloalkyl wherein in one embodiment no two groups are bound to the nitrogen atom through a carbonyl group or a sulfonyl group. The alkyl group can be a primary secondary or tertiary alkyl group substituted with one or more substituents e.g. one or more halo or alkoxy . In some embodiments the unsubstituted alkyl group is a C C C C C C or Calkyl group.

By alkylene is meant a bivalent form of an alkyl group as described herein. Exemplary alkylene groups include methylene ethylene propylene butylene etc. In some embodiments the alkylene group is a C C C C C C C C C C C C C or Calkylene group. The alkylene group can be branched or unbranched. The alkylene group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkylene group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl.

By alkyleneoxy is meant an alkylene group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an oxygen atom.

By alkylsulfate is meant an alkyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an O SO group. An exemplary alkylsulfate group is O SO Ak where each Ak is independently optionally substituted alkyl.

By alkylsulfinyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an S O group. In some embodiments the unsubstituted alkylsulfinyl group is a Cor Calkylsulfinyl group.

By alkylsulfinylalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein substituted by an alkylsulfinyl group. In some embodiments the unsubstituted alkylsulfinylalkyl group is a Cor Calkylsulfinylalkyl group e.g. Calkylsulfinyl Calkyl or Calkylsulfinyl Calkyl .

By alkylsulfonyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an SO group. In some embodiments the unsubstituted alkylsulfonyl group is a Cor Calkylsulfonyl group. In other embodiments the alkylsulfonyl group is SO R where Ris an optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. as described herein including optionally substituted Chaloalkyl or perfluoroalkyl .

By alkylsulfonylalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein substituted by an alkylsulfonyl group. In some embodiments the unsubstituted alkylsulfonylalkyl group is a Cor Calkylsulfonylalkyl group e.g. Calkylsulfonyl Calkyl or Calkylsulfonyl Calkyl . By alkylsulfonylamide is meant an amino group as defined herein substituted by an alkylsulfonyl group. In some embodiments the unsubstituted alkylsulfonylamide group is NRR in which each of Rand Ris independently H Calkyl or Calkylsulfonyl group e.g. Calkylsulfonyl or Calkylsulfonyl where at least one of Rand Rincludes a sulfonyl group. An exemplary alkylsulfonylamide group is N SO Ak or N Ak SO Ak where each Ak is independently optionally substituted alkyl.

By alkynyl is meant an optionally substituted Calkyl group having one or more triple bonds. The alkynyl group can be cyclic or acyclic and is exemplified by ethynyl 1 propynyl and the like. The alkynyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkynyl group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl.

By amidino is meant C NR NRR where each of R R and Ris independently H or optionally substituted alkyl or Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocyclyl group as defined herein.

By amido is meant C O NRR where each of Rand Ris independently H or optionally substituted alkyl or Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocyclyl group as defined herein.

By amino is meant NRR where each of Rand Ris independently H or optionally substituted alkyl or Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocyclyl group as defined herein.

By aminoalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein substituted by an amino group as defined herein.

By aryl is meant a group that contains any carbon based aromatic group including but not limited to benzyl naphthalene phenyl biphenyl phenoxybenzene and the like. The term aryl also includes heteroaryl which is defined as a group that contains an aromatic group that has at least one heteroatom incorporated within the ring of the aromatic group. Examples of heteroatoms include but are not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur and phosphorus. Likewise the term non heteroaryl which is also included in the term aryl defines a group that contains an aromatic group that does not contain a heteroatom. The aryl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The aryl group can be substituted with one two three four or five substituents independently selected from the group consisting of 1 Calkanoyl 2 Calkyl 3 Calkoxy 4 Calkoxy Calkyl 5 Calkylsulfinyl 6 Calkylsulfinyl Calkyl 7 Calkylsulfonyl 8 Calkylsulfonyl Calkyl 9 aryl 10 amino 11 Caminoalkyl 12 heteroaryl 13 Calk Caryl 14 aryloyl 15 azido 16 cyano 17 Cazidoalkyl 18 carboxyaldehyde 19 carboxyaldehyde Calkyl 20 Ccycloalkyl 21 Calk Ccycloalkyl 22 halo 23 Chaloalkyl 24 heterocyclyl 25 heterocyclyloxy 26 heterocyclyloyl 27 hydroxyl 28 Chydroxyalkyl 29 nitro 30 Cnitroalkyl 31 N protected amino 32 N protected amino Calkyl 33 oxo 34 Cthioalkoxy 35 thio Calkoxy Calkyl 36 CH COR where r is an integer of from zero to four and Ris selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b Calkyl c Caryl and d Calk Caryl 37 CH CONRR where r is an integer of from zero to four and where each Rand Ris independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b Calkyl c Caryl and d Calk Caryl 38 CH SOR where r is an integer of from zero to four and where Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Caryl and c Calk Caryl 39 CH SONRR where r is an integer of from zero to four and where each of Rand Ris independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b Calkyl c Caryl and d Calk Caryl 40 CH NRR where r is an integer of from zero to four and where each of Rand Ris independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b an N protecting group c Calkyl d Calkenyl e Calkynyl f Caryl g Calk Caryl h Ccycloalkyl and i Calk Ccycloalkyl wherein in one embodiment no two groups are bound to the nitrogen atom through a carbonyl group or a sulfonyl group 41 thiol 42 perfluoroalkyl 43 perfluoroalkoxy 44 aryloxy 45 cycloalkoxy 46 cycloalkylalkoxy and 47 arylalkoxy. In particular embodiments an unsubstituted aryl group is a C C C C C C C or Caryl group.

By arylene is meant a bivalent form of an aryl group as described herein. Exemplary arylene groups include phenylene naphthylene biphenylene triphenylene diphenyl ether acenaphthenylene anthrylene or phenanthrylene. In some embodiments the arylene group is a C C C C C C C or Carylene group. The arylene group can be branched or unbranched. The arylene group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the arylene group can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for aryl.

By aryleneoxy is meant an arylene group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an oxygen atom.

By arylalkoxy is meant an alkaryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an oxygen atom.

By aryloxy is meant OR where R is an optionally substituted aryl group as described herein. In some embodiments an unsubstituted aryloxy group is a Cor Caryloxy group.

By aryloxycarbonyl is meant an aryloxy group as defined herein that is attached to the parent molecular group through a carbonyl group. In some embodiments an unsubstituted aryloxycarbonyl group is a Caryloxycarbonyl group.

By aryloyl is meant an aryl group that is attached to the parent molecular group through a carbonyl group. In some embodiments an unsubstituted aryloyl group is a Caryloyl group.

By arylsulfonyl is meant an aryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an SO group.

By arylsulfonylalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein substituted by an arylsulfonyl group. In some embodiments the unsubstituted arylsulfonylalkyl group is a Carylsulfonyl Calkyl group.

By azidoalkyl is meant an azido group attached to the parent molecular group through an alkyl group as defined herein.

By carboxyaldehydealkyl is meant a carboxyaldehyde group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an alkylene group as defined herein.

By cycloalkyl is meant a monovalent saturated or unsaturated non aromatic cyclic hydrocarbon group of from three to eight carbons unless otherwise specified and is exemplified by cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl bicyclo 2.2.1. heptyl and the like. The cycloalkyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the cycloalkyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including those described herein for alkyl.

By cycloalkoxy is meant a cycloalkyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an oxygen atom.

By dithiocarboxyamino is meant NRC S SR where each of Rand Ris independently H or optionally substituted alkyl or Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocyclyl group as defined herein.

By heteroalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein containing one two three or four non carbon heteroatoms e.g. independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen phosphorous sulfur or halo .

By heteroalkylene is meant a divalent form of an alkylene group as defined herein containing one two three or four non carbon heteroatoms e.g. independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen phosphorous sulfur or halo .

By heteroalkyleneoxy is meant a heteroalkylene group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an oxygen atom.

By heteroaryl is meant a subset of heterocyclyl groups as defined herein which are aromatic i.e. they contain 4n 2 pi electrons within the mono or multicyclic ring system.

By heterocyclyl is meant a 5 6 or 7 membered ring unless otherwise specified containing one two three or four non carbon heteroatoms e.g. independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen phosphorous sulfur or halo . The 5 membered ring has zero to two double bonds and the 6 and 7 membered rings have zero to three double bonds. The term heterocyclyl also includes bicyclic tricyclic and tetracyclic groups in which any of the above heterocyclic rings is fused to one two or three rings independently selected from the group consisting of an aryl ring a cyclohexane ring a cyclohexene ring a cyclopentane ring a cyclopentene ring and another monocyclic heterocyclic ring such as indolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl benzofuryl benzothienyl and the like. Heterocyclics include thiiranyl thietanyl tetrahydrothienyl thianyl thiepanyl aziridinyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl azepanyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyridyl homopiperidinyl pyrazinyl piperazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolidiniyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thiazolyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolyl isothiazolidinyl indolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl furyl thienyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolyl isoindazoyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxadiazolyl uricyl thiadiazolyl pyrimidyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl dihydrothienyl dihydroindolyl tetrahydroquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinolyl pyranyl dihydropyranyl dithiazolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl and the like.

By heterocyclyloxy is meant a heterocyclyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through an oxygen atom.

By heterocyclyloyl is meant a heterocyclyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through a carbonyl group.

By hydroxyalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein substituted by one to three hydroxyl groups with the proviso that no more than one hydroxyl group may be attached to a single carbon atom of the alkyl group and is exemplified by hydroxymethyl dihydroxypropyl and the like.

By perfluoroalkyl is meant an alkyl group as defined herein having each hydrogen atom substituted with a fluorine atom. Exemplary perfluoroalkyl groups include trifluoromethyl pentafluoroethyl etc.

By perfluoroalkylene is meant an alkylene group as defined herein having each hydrogen atom substituted with a fluorine atom. Exemplary perfluoroalkylene groups include difluoromethylene tetrafluoroethylene etc.

By perfluoroalkyleneoxy is meant a perfluoroalkylene group as defined herein having an oxy group attached to either end of the perfluoroalkylene group. Exemplary perfluoroalkylene groups include e.g. OCF or CFO where f is an integer from about 1 to 5 and 2f is an integer that is 2 times f e.g. difluoromethyleneoxy tetrafluoroethyleneoxy etc. .

By perfluoroalkoxy is meant an alkoxy group as defined herein having each hydrogen atom substituted with a fluorine atom.

By protecting group is meant any group intended to protect a reactive group against undesirable synthetic reactions. Commonly used protecting groups are disclosed in Greene s Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 2007 4th ed. eds. P. G. M. Wuts and T. W. Greene which is incorporated herein by reference. O protecting groups include an optionally substituted alkyl group e.g. forming an ether with reactive group O such as methyl methoxymethyl methylthiomethyl benzoyloxymethyl t butoxymethyl etc. an optionally substituted alkanoyl group e.g. forming an ester with the reactive group O such as formyl acetyl chloroacetyl fluoroacetyl e.g. perfluoroacetyl methoxyacetyl pivaloyl t butylacetyl phenoxyacetyl etc. an optionally substituted aryloyl group e.g. forming an ester with the reactive group O such as C O Ar including benzoyl an optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl group e.g. forming an alkylsulfonate with reactive group O such as SO R where Ris optionally substituted Calkyl such as mesyl or benzylsulfonyl an optionally substituted arylsulfonyl group e.g. forming an arylsulfonate with reactive group O such as SO R where Ris optionally substituted Caryl such as tosyl or phenylsulfonyl an optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl or aryloxycarbonyl group e.g. forming a carbonate with reactive group O such as C O OR where Ris optionally substituted Calkyl or optionally substituted Caryl such as methoxycarbonyl methoxymethylcarbonyl t butyloxycarbonyl Boc or benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz or an optionally substituted silyl group e.g. forming a silyl ether with reactive group O such as Si R where each Ris independently optionally substituted Calkyl or optionally substituted Caryl such as trimethylsilyl t butyldimethylsilyl or t butyldiphenylsilyl. N protecting groups include e.g. formyl acetyl benzoyl pivaloyl t butylacetyl alanyl phenylsulfonyl benzyl Boc and Cbz. Such protecting groups can employ any useful agent to cleave the protecting group thereby restoring the reactivity of the unprotected reactive group.

By salt is meant an ionic form of a compound or structure e.g. any formulas compounds or compositions described herein which includes a cation or anion compound to form an electrically neutral compound or structure. Salts are well known in the art. For example non toxic salts are described in Berge S M et al. Pharmaceutical salts 1977 January 66 1 1 19 and in Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use Wiley VCH April 2011 2nd rev. ed. eds. P. H. Stahl and C. G. Wermuth. The salts can be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the compounds of the invention or separately by reacting the free base group with a suitable organic acid thereby producing an anionic salt or by reacting the acid group with a suitable metal or organic salt thereby producing a cationic salt . Representative anionic salts include acetate adipate alginate ascorbate aspartate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate chloride citrate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dihydrochloride diphosphate dodecylsulfate edetate ethanesulfonate fumarate glucoheptonate glucomate glutamate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptonate hexanoate hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroiodide hydroxyethanesulfonate hydroxynaphthoate iodide lactate lactobionate laurate lauryl sulfate malate maleate malonate mandelate mesylate methanesulfonate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate mucate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate nitrate oleate oxalate palmitate pamoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate phosphate picrate pivalate polygalacturonate propionate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate sulfate tannate tartrate theophyllinate thiocyanate triethiodide toluenesulfonate undecanoate valerate salts and the like. Representative cationic salts include metal salts such as alkali or alkaline earth salts e.g. barium calcium e.g. calcium edetate lithium magnesium potassium sodium and the like other metal salts such as aluminum bismuth iron and zinc as well as nontoxic ammonium quaternary ammonium and amine cations including but not limited to ammonium tetramethylammonium tetraethylammonium methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine ethylamine pyridinium and the like. Other cationic salts include organic salts such as chloroprocaine choline dibenzylethylenediamine diethanolamine ethylenediamine methylglucamine and procaine.

By spirocyclyl is meant an alkylene diradical both ends of which are bonded to the same carbon atom of the parent group to form a spirocyclyl group and also a heteroalkylene diradical both ends of which are bonded to the same atom.

By sulfone is meant R S O R where R and R is an organic moiety. Exemplary groups for R and R include independently optionally substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkaryl alkheterocyclyl alkcycloalkyl alkanoyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkoxycarbonyl alkylsulfinyl alkylsulfonyl alkylsulfinylalkyl alkylsulfonylalkyl aminoalkyl aryl arylalkoxy aryloxy aryloxycarbonyl aryloyl arylsulfonyl arylsulfonylalkyl azidoalkyl carboxyaldehyde carboxyaldehydealkyl carboxyl cyano cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy haloalkyl heteroaryl heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclyloyl hydroxyalkyl nitroalkyl perfluoroalkyl perfluoroalkoxy spirocyclyl thioalkaryl thioalkheterocyclyl or thioalkoxy as defined herein. The sulfone can be unsubstituted or substituted. For example the sulfone can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl and or aryl.

By sultam is meant an S O NR or an NR S O group in which Ris any useful moiety. Exemplary Rgroups include H optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted haloalkyl optionally substituted alkoxy optionally substituted alkaryl optionally substituted aryl or halo.

By thioalkaryl is meant a thioalkoxy group as defined herein substituted with an aryl group as defined herein.

By thioalkheterocyclyl is meant a thioalkoxy group as defined herein substituted with a heterocyclyl group as defined herein.

By thioalkoxy is meant an alkyl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular group through a sulfur atom. Exemplary unsubstituted thioalkoxy groups include Cthioalkoxy.

By thioamido is meant C S NRR where each of Rand Ris independently H or optionally substituted alkyl or Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocyclyl group as defined herein.

By attaching attachment or related word forms is meant any covalent or non covalent bonding interaction between two components. Non covalent bonding interactions include without limitation hydrogen bonding ionic interactions halogen bonding electrostatic interactions bond interactions hydrophobic interactions inclusion complexes clathration van der Waals interactions and combinations thereof.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to polymer structures having various functional moieties. In particular embodiments these functional moieties e.g. acidic moieties allow for proton conduction through pores formed by such polymer structures. In other embodiments the functional moieties e.g. any described herein impart durability to the polymer by protecting the polyphenylene structure from oxidative damage. Structures for such polymers as well as methods for making and using such polymers are described herein.

The present invention encompasses polymers including copolymers. Exemplary polymer include any described herein such as non limiting generic structure provided in formulas I Ia Ib Ic Id II IIa IIb IIc IId III III IV IVa V and Va as well as particular structures provided as structures Ib 1 Ib 2 Ic 1 Id 1 Id 2 IIb 1 IIb 2 IIb 3 IIb 4 IIb 5 IIc 1 III 1 III 2 III 1 III 2 and IV 1 including salts thereof. Of these formulas II IIa IIb IIc and III are considered to be copolymers. In particular embodiments the copolymer of the invention includes at least one hydrophilic segment at least one hydrophobic segment and at least one linking segment connecting at least one hydrophilic segment with at least one hydrophobic segment.

In one embodiment a polymer includes the structure of formula I including salts thereof. As can be seen in formula I is a generic structure encompassing other structures e.g. formula Ia . The polymer can include any useful backbone structure. For instance in formula I the backbone includes three groups i.e. two R substituted aryl groups and a bridging group Ar. The polymer can include any useful type of backbone substituents e.g. backbone substituents R as well as any useful number of such substituents on each group e.g. q substituents where q can be 1 2 3 4 or 5 . For any structure described herein each Ris independently an acidic moiety e.g. R R R or any described herein an electron withdrawing moiety e.g. Ror any described herein or an inert substituent e.g. H halo optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy etc. . In some embodiments each and every Ris independently R R R or R.

Each of bridging group Arand connecting group Arcan be any useful bivalent linker. In particular embodiments each of Arand Aris independently includes an optionally substituted arylene group. In some embodiments each of Arand Aris independently an optionally substituted arylene group. In other embodiments each of Arand Aris independently substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 Rsubstituent s Rsubstituent s Rsubstituent s Rsubstituent s or label s . Exemplary labels include a detectable label such as an NMR label e.g. fluorine such as F nitrogen e.g. N or oxygen e.g. O a spin label an isotopic label a mass label a fluorescent label a dye etc.

In yet other embodiments each of Arand Aris independently configured to reduce meta linkages. Thus in some instances each of Arand Aris independently a bivalent linker formed by removing a hydrogen atom from opposite faces of an aryl group. Examples of such linkers include 1 4 benzenediyl or 1 4 phenylene 2 7 phenanthrylene or 2 7 phenanthrenediyl 1 5 naphthylene or 1 5 napthalenediyl etc. For example the polymer can include a structure of Formula Ia having Aras a R substituted 1 4 phenylene and Aras an R substituted 1 4 phenylene.

The polymer can also include any useful type of pendent substituents e.g. pendent substituents R as well as any useful number of such substituents on each aryl group e.g. q substituents where q can be 1 2 3 4 or 5 . For any structure described herein each Ris independently an acidic moiety e.g. R R R or any described herein an electron withdrawing moiety e.g. Ror any described herein or an inert substituent e.g. H halo optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy etc. . In some embodiments each and every Ris independently R R R or R. In some embodiments fully substituted pendent groups e.g. Ris not H can provide polymers with enhanced proton conduction and durability characteristics.

A polymer can include any useful number of structures of formula I . In some embodiments the polymer includes m structures where m is an integer of from about 1 to 500.

The present invention also includes copolymers. In one embodiment the copolymer includes the structure of formula II including salts thereof. As can be seen in formula II is a generic structure encompassing other structures e.g. formula IIa . Similar to formula I described above the copolymer structure includes R substituted aryl groups bridging group Ar connecting group Ar pendent substituents R and m units. Thus the description for these substituents provided for formula I applies equally to formula II . In some embodiments each of Arand Aris independently an optionally substituted phenylene. In other embodiments each of Arand Aris independently an optionally substituted 1 4 phenylene as shown in formula IIa having Aras a R substituted 1 4 phenylene and Aras an R substituted 1 4 phenylene.

Formula II also includes additional groups including a linking segment L and a hydrophobic segment Arof n units. The linking segment L can be any useful linkage to form a covalent bond between the two segments. Exemplary linking segments L include a covalent bond an optionally substituted alkylene an optionally substituted heteroalkylene an optionally substituted alkyleneoxy an optionally substituted heteroalkyleneoxy an optionally substituted arylene an optionally substituted aryleneoxy an Arunit or a structure of formula I .

The copolymer can have any useful hydrophobic segment Ar. In some embodiments Arincludes a structure of formula I e.g. where each Ris H optionally substituted alkyl or R or where the number of Rsubstituents in Aris less than the number of Rand or Rsubstituents in the hydrophilic segment a sulfone subunit e.g. a subunit including an SO group an arylene sulfone subunit e.g. Ar SO Ar where Ar is an optionally substituted arylene group as defined herein and each a and b is an integer of about 0 to 10 and at least one of a or b is 1 or more an ether sulfone subunit e.g. X SO X O or X O X SO where each Xand Xis independently any useful group such as optionally substituted arylene or optionally substituted alkylene and each a and b is an integer of about 0 to 10 and at least one of a or b is 1 or more an arylene ether subunit e.g. Ar O Ar where Ar is an optionally substituted arylene group as defined herein and each a and b is an integer of about 0 to 10 and at least one of a or b is 1 or more an arylene ketone subunit e.g. Ar C O Ar where Ar is an optionally substituted arylene group as defined herein and each a and b is an integer of about 0 to 10 and at least one of a or b is 1 or more a perfluoroalkyl subunit e.g. CF where f1 is an integer of 1 to about 16 or a perfluoroalkoxy subunit e.g. O CF CF O O CF CF CF or CFO CF CF CF where each f1 and f2 is independently an integer of 1 to about 16 .

In some embodiments formula II includes a hydrophobic segment Arand a hydrophilic segment. In other embodiments the hydrophilic segment includes the two R substituted aryl groups and a bridging group Ar. Thus in some embodiments at least one substituent in this hydrophilic segment e.g. substituents R R or R is a hydrophilic moiety e.g. an acidic moiety such as any R R and or Rdescribed herein or any moiety including a sulfonyl group or a phosphoryl group .

A copolymer can include any useful number or ratio of hydrophilic and hydrophobic segments. In some embodiments formulas II and IIa include m number of hydrophilic segments and n number of hydrophobic segments where each of m and n is independently an integer of from about 1 to 500. In other embodiments the m the number of hydrophilic segments is minimized in order to minimize swelling of the copolymer. For example in some instances m

For any polymer herein including any copolymer herein each and every Rcan be independently R R R and or R. For instance in some embodiments each aryl group in the polymer or a segment thereof is substituted with an R an R and or an Rsubstitution where each substitution may be the same or different. An exemplary structure is provided as structure Ib in where each aryl group is substituted with an R and such substituted aryl groups are denoted as Ar. Particular examples of polymers having substituted Arinclude structures Ib 1 and Ib 2 having acidic moieties including sulfonyl groups .

In other embodiments the hydrophilic segment of the copolymer is composed of a structure in which each aryl group is substituted with an R an R and or an Rsubstitution where each substitution may be the same or different. An exemplary structure is provided as structure IIb in where each aryl group in the hydrophilic segment is substituted with an R and such substituted aryl groups are denoted as Ar. Particular examples of copolymers having substituted Arin the hydrophilic segment include structures IIb 1 IIb 2 and IIb 3 having acidic moieties including sulfonyl groups .

As can be seen the copolymers include a linking segment L as indicated by a gray rectangle in . The linking segment can be any useful linkage e.g. any herein including those composed of structures or a portion of such structures in the hydrophilic segment and or the hydrophobic segment. For instance as seen in structure IIb 2 in the linking segment L is composed of two substructures i a substituted polyphenylene structure of the hydrophilic segment and ii an arylene sulfone structure of the hydrophobic segment.

In another instance as seen in structure IIb 4 in the linking segment L is composed of three substructures i a substituted polyphenylene structure of the hydrophilic segment ii a reactive group which includes an optionally substituted arylene ketone i.e. Ph C O Ph in which Ph is an optionally substituted phenylene group and ii an arylene sulfone structure of the hydrophobic segment. A particular example of such a polymer is structure IIb 5 in in which m is greater than n. In some instances m can be about 5.6 and n can be about 60.7 or 121.4. In other instances m is of from about 1 to 20 and n is of from about 20 to 400.

In particular embodiments the copolymer is composed of a hydrophilic segment including Arand a hydrophobic segment including Ar i.e. aryl groups substituted with Rsubstitutions where each Rcan be the same or different . An exemplary structure is provided as structure IIc in where each aryl group in the hydrophilic segment is substituted with an R denoted as Ar and each aryl group in the hydrophobic segment is substituted with an R denoted as Ar . Particular examples of copolymers having substituted Arand Arinclude structure IIc 1 .

In some embodiments the copolymer includes a hydrophilic segment having acidic moieties e.g. R R and or R as well as combinations thereof on only the pendent aryl groups. Exemplary hydrophilic segments include those having R substituted pendent aryl groups denoted as Ar R substituted pendent aryl groups and R substituted backbone aryl groups denoted at Ar such as those e.g. encompassed by formula III in . Particular examples of segments having Arpendent groups and Arbackbone groups include structures III 1 and III 2 . Exemplary copolymers with such hydrophilic segments are provided as formula III in and particular examples of copolymers include structures III 1 and III 2 .

The present invention also includes polymers e.g. copolymers having a hydrophobic segment having one or more electron withdrawing moieties e.g. R . In particular the use of such electron withdrawing moieties could reduce potential oxidation sites by oxidizing species pollutants or contaminants e.g. metal ions such as Vions . In some embodiments each pendent aryl group in the polymer or a segment thereof is substituted with an Rsubstitution where each substitution may be the same or different. An exemplary structure is provided as structure Ic in where each pendent aryl group is substituted with an R and such substituted aryl groups are denoted as Ar. Particular examples of polymers having substituted Arinclude structures Ic 1 and Ib 2 having electron withdrawing moiety of a perfluoroalkyl substituted benzoyl . In other embodiments both pendent and backbone aryl groups are each independently an Ar.

Both acidic substitutions e.g. R R and or R as well as combinations thereof and Rsubstitutions can be present on the same polymer or on the same segment of the polymer. In particular the use of acidic moieties and electron withdrawing moieties could provide orthogonal chemistries to control and optimize performance e.g. by employing acidic moieties to control ion conduction and durability e.g. by employing electron withdrawing moieties to reduce oxidation . An exemplary structure is provided as structure Id in where each pendent aryl group is substituted with an R an R an R and or an R. Optionally one or more backbone aryl groups can be further substituted with an R an R an R and or an R. Particular examples of polymers having substituted Arand Argroups include structures Id 1 and Id 2 having acidic sulfonic acid moieties and electron withdrawing perfluoroalkyl substituted benzoyl moieties .

The present invention also includes reagents having any useful polymer segment e.g. hydrophilic segment or hydrophobic segment described herein. For instance the reagent can include a polymer segment disposed between two reactive end groups where each end group can be the same or different. The polymer segment can be any described herein e.g. a structure provided in formulas I Ia Ib Ic Id II IIa IIb IIc IId III and III as well as particular structures provided as structures Ib 1 Ib 2 Ic 1 Id 1 Id 2 IIb 1 IIb 2 IIb 3 IIb 4 IIb 5 IIc 1 III 1 III 2 III 1 and III . In addition the polymer segment can include a hydrophobic segment e.g. Ar such as any described herein.

Optionally a sublink L can be present between the polymer segment and a reactive end group. The sublink L can be composed of any useful linkage such as any described herein e.g. those described for linking segment L .

The reactive end group can be any useful group configured to react with a second reactive end group. In this way ordered copolymer block structures can be synthesized by selectively placing reactive end groups on the ends of blocks or segments to form polymer reagents and then reacting that polymer reagents to place the segments in an end to end fashion in the copolymer. A skilled artisan would understand how to place reactive end groups in a polymer reagent in order to form a copolymer with the desired configuration or order.

The reactive end group is usually placed on the ends of a first polymer reagent as well as on the ends of the second polymer reagent. Then a first reactive end group on the first polymer reagent reacts with the second reactive end group on the second polymer reagent. The first and second reactive end groups can be chosen from a pair of co reactive groups. For example such pairs of co reactive groups include i a nucleophile for use with ii an electrophile i an optionally substituted aryl group e.g. having a C O Rgroup where Ris an aryl group having one or more halo for use with ii an optionally substituted aryl group e.g. having a ORgroup where Ris H or an O protecting group that can be deprotected prior to conducting a reaction i an optionally substituted aryl group e.g. having a C O Rgroup where Ris an aryl group having one or more halo for use with ii an optionally substituted alkoxy group e.g. such as OR where Ris H or an O protecting group that can be deprotected prior to conducting a reaction i an optionally substituted aryl group for use with ii an optionally substituted alkoxy group e.g. such as OR where Ris H or an O protecting group that can be deprotected prior to conducting a reaction i an optionally substituted alkynyl group for use with ii an optionally substituted azido group which can participate in a Huisgen 1 3 dipolar cycloaddition reaction as well as i an optionally substituted diene having a 4 electron system for use with ii an optionally substituted dienophile or an optionally substituted heterodienophile having a 2 electron system which can participate in a Diels Alder reaction. For the co reactive groups above reagent i reacts with reagent ii in each pair.

Exemplary polymer reagents are provided as structures IV and V in . As can be seen polymer reagent IV includes a two reactive end groups Rwith a polymer segment in brackets placed between the reactive end groups. For this exemplary reagent the optional sublink is located between the polymer segment and one of the reactive end groups. For reagent IV the polymer segment is that of formula I but any formula or structure herein can be employed for this polymer segment.

The second polymer reagent V includes two reactive end groups Rwith a polymer segment Ar placed between the reactive end group. The sublink L is optional and can be any useful linkage e.g. those described for linking segment L . If present sublinks L and L may be the same or different. As shown in reagent IVa includes a sublink having a structure similar to that of Formula I but lacking aryl group Ar. Reagent Va includes a sublink having an arylene sulfone subunit. Any useful polymer segment or portion thereof may be employed in the sublink regions.

In some embodiments Rand Rare chosen from a pair of co reactive groups such as any herein. In this manner polymer reagent IV is attached to polymer reagent V in a controlled manner to form copolymer having formula II see . After the reaction one or more protons may be transferred removed or added where Rindicates reactive group Rafter the reaction and Rindicates reactive group Rafter the reaction. As shown in the reactive end group in reagent IVa is an aryl group having a C O Rgroup where Ris an perfluoroaryl group and the reactive end group in reagent Va is an optionally substituted aryl group OR where Ris H or an O protecting group that can be deprotected prior to conducting the reaction. After the reaction the polymer segments of reagents IVa and Va are attached by way of a linking segment to form copolymer IId . provides a particular reagent IV 1 which is a specific example encompassed by formula IV . Reagent IV 1 includes electron withdrawing moieties on the pendent and backbone aryl groups. A skilled artisan would understand that these reagents and synthetic methodologies can be modified to install the desired chemical functionality and to form the desired polymer function and structure.

The present invention includes the use of functional moieties such as acidic moieties and electron withdrawing moieties. Exemplary acidic moieties e.g. R include any group having one or more sulfonyl groups such as sulfo e.g. SO OH alkylsulfonyl e.g. SO R where Ris optionally substituted Calkyl alkylsulfonylalkyl e.g. R SOR where each of Ris optionally substituted Calkylene or optionally substituted heteroalkylene and Ris optionally substituted Calkyl arylsulfonyl e.g. SO R where Ris optionally substituted Caryl arylsulfonylalkyl e.g. R SO R where Ris independently optionally substituted Calkyl or alkylene and Ris optionally substituted Caryl sulfonamoyl e.g. SONRR sulfoamino e.g. N R SO R aminosulfonyl e.g. SO NR R or sulfonyl imide e.g. SO NR SO R where each of Rand Ris independently H optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as perfluoroalkyl optionally substituted Caryl or optionally substituted Calk Caryl Ris H optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as perfluoroalkyl hydroxyl optionally substituted Calkylsulfonyl optionally substituted Caryl or optionally substituted Calk Caryl and Ris H hydroxyl optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as perfluoroalkyl optionally substituted Caryl or optionally substituted Calk Caryl.

In any of these moieties each Rand Ris independently optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as Cperfluoroalkyl optionally substituted Calkoxy optionally substituted Caryl optionally substituted Calk Caryl optionally substituted Caryloxy hydroxyl or H each Ris independently optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as perfluoroalkyl optionally substituted Calkylsulfonyl optionally substituted Calkoxy optionally substituted Caryl optionally substituted Calk Caryl optionally substituted Caryloxy hydroxyl or H each Ris independently optionally substituted Caryl optionally substituted Calk Caryl or optionally substituted Caryloxy each of Ris independently oxy optionally substituted Calkylene or optionally substituted heteroalkylene and each of Rand Ris independently H optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as perfluoroalkyl optionally substituted Caryl or optionally substituted Calk Caryl.

Other exemplary acidic moieties e.g. R include any group having one or more phosphoryl groups such as phosphono e.g. P O OH phosphoric ester e.g. O PO OH or O P O 

In any of these moieties each of Rand Ris independently optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as Cperfluoroalkyl optionally substituted Calkoxy optionally substituted Caryl optionally substituted Calk Caryl optionally substituted Caryloxy hydroxyl or H each of Ris independently optionally substituted Caryl optionally substituted Calk Caryl or optionally substituted Caryloxy and each Ris independently oxy optionally substituted Calkylene or optionally substituted heteroalkylene.

Yet other exemplary acidic moieties e.g. R include any group having a carbonyl group such as carboxyl e.g. COH C O R or R C O R e.g. where each Ris independently optionally substituted Calkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as Cperfluoroalkyl optionally substituted Calkoxy optionally substituted Caryl optionally substituted Calk Caryl optionally substituted Caryloxy hydroxyl or H and each Ris independently oxy optionally substituted Calkylene or optionally substituted heteroalkylene .

Exemplary electron withdrawing moieties e.g. R include optionally substituted Caryloyl optionally substituted Caryl carboxyaldehyde optionally substituted Calkanoyl optionally substituted Calkyl optionally substituted Chaloalkyl optionally substituted Calkoxycarbonyl nitro cyano sulfo carboxyl and quaternary ammonium e.g. NRRR where each of R R and Ris independently optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkaryl or optionally substituted aryl or two of R R and R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocyclyl group as defined herein . In another embodiment Rincludes or is substituted by a Cperfluoroalkyl group. In yet another embodiment Ris a Cperfluoroalkyl group.

The acidic moieties and electron withdrawing moieties can be substituted or unsubstituted. For example these groups can be substituted with one or more substitution groups as described herein for alkyl and or aryl.

The aryl groups herein can have any useful configuration structure and substitutions. Exemplary aryl groups e.g. including arylene groups such as for Ar Ar and Ar include the following groups which may be optionally substituted 

The present invention includes a salt of any polymer described herein e.g. a salt of any one of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic Id II IIa IIb IIc IId III III IV IVa V and Va as well as particular structures provided as structures Ib 1 Ib 2 Ic 1 Id 1 Id 2 IIb 1 IIb 2 IIb 3 IIb 4 IIb 5 IIc 1 III 1 III 2 III 1 III 2 and IV 1 . In particular embodiments the salt is a sodium salt.

The polymers of the invention can be synthesized using any useful scheme. The following synthetic schemes are provided as non limiting examples.

As shown in Scheme I the polymer of formula I can be formed by performing a Diels Alder reaction to form the pendent and backbone aryl groups performing a first substitution reaction to introduce Rto the parent structure and then performing a second substitution reaction to introduce R. These three steps are described in more detail below.

First a Diels Alder reaction can be performed with an optionally substituted diene such as a 1 4 bis 2 4 5 triphenylcyclopentadienone arylene reagent 1 with an optionally substituted dienophile such as a diethynylarylene reagent 2 . This reaction provides a Diels Alder poly phenylene polymer DAPP 3 . As can be seen in this step the number of subunits m is controlled by the stoichiometry of reagents 1 and 2 .

Second a substitution reaction is performed with reagent R X with the DAPP product 3 to provide a substituted polymer 4 where X is any useful leaving group e.g. halo hydroxyl or sulfonate such as mesylate tosylate or triflate and Ris any described herein.

Third a substitution reaction is performed with reagent R X with the substituted polymer 4 to provide the desired polymer of formula I where X is any useful leaving group e.g. halo hydroxyl or sulfonate such as mesylate tosylate or triflate and Ris any described herein. The two substitution steps can be performed in any order to obtain the desired substitution pattern. Of course if Rand Rare the same substituents then only one of the substitution reaction steps can be conducted. Alternatively one or more steps may be required to install Ror Ron the parent molecule. For instance when Ror Ris SO NR R multiple steps may be required to first install the SO functional group on the parent molecule. Then this functional group may be activated e.g. by forming a sulfonyl halide such as sulfonyl chloride and reacted with an amine e.g. NHR R .

In another instance an additional step may be required to install the Rfunctional group. For example when Ror Rincludes two sulfonyl groups such as in SO NR SO R then then sulfonyl groups can be attached sequentially. In one example the method includes installing the first SO functional group on the parent molecule and then reacted with a primary amine such as NHR thereby providing a parent molecule having a SO NHRsulfonamide group. This sulfonamide can then be reacted with an activated sulfonyl agent e.g. a Cl SO Ragent where Ris an optionally substituted Calkyl thereby providing an Rmoiety of SO NR SO Ron the polymer.

Exemplary R X and R X reagents include HSOCl HSO PCl POCl HPO SO fuming sulfuric acid thionyl chloride trimethylsilyl chlorosulfonate dialkyl phosphites e.g. diethyl phosphate with an optional catalyst such as a Pd 0 catalyst phosphines e.g. tertiary phosphines phosphoric acids e.g. hypophosphorous acids phosphonic acids phosphinic acids etc. aryl halide e.g. RX where R is an optionally substituted aryl group as defined herein and X is halo aryl halide e.g. RX where R is an optionally substituted aryloyl group as defined herein and X is halo such as trifluorobenzoyl chloride protein kinase e.g. to install a phosphoryl group phosphonoxyphenols as well as mixtures thereof

As shown in Schemes IIA and IIB below the copolymer of formula II can be formed by performing a Diels Alder reaction to a first segment and then joining the second segment to produce the copolymer. In Scheme IIA the first and second segments are attached and then Rsubstituents are introduced to the parent polymer. In Scheme IIB the first segment is modified to include Rsubstituents and then the R substituted first segment is attached to the second segment. A skilled artisan would understand that further variations and modifications can be employed to install desired substituents and to attach the first and second segments in order to provide an ordered copolymer. Details for Schemes IIA and IIB are provided below.

As shown in Scheme IIA the polymer of formula II can be formed by performing a Diels Alder reaction to form the pendent and backbone aryl groups in the first segment coupling the first and second segments and then performing substitution reactions to introduce Rand R. These three steps are described in more detail below.

Similar to that of Scheme I the first segment is formed by performing a Diels Alder reaction with a 1 4 bis 2 4 5 triphenylcyclopentadienone arylene reagent 1 and a diethynylarylene reagent 2 .

To further install reactive end groups the Diels Alder reaction is also performed in the presence of a monoethynylarylene reagent 3 . As can be seen because reagent 2 includes two dienophile groups i.e. two ethynyl groups this reagent can react with two diene molecules 1 where the product of this reaction can further propagate the polymerization reaction. In contrast reagent 3 includes only one dienophile group and therefore terminates the polymerization reaction and provides a polymer reagent 6 having a terminal reactive end group R. Additional methods for installing reactive end groups are described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 110 636 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

To couple two segment together the polymer reagent 6 is reacted with a second polymer reagent V having a hydrophobic segment Ar to form an unsubstituted copolymer 7 . In particular embodiments reactive end groups Rand Rare chosen from a pair of co reactive groups e.g. any herein . Additional methods for coupling segments are described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 110 636 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Finally substitution reaction s can be performed. In Scheme IIA the substitution reactions are provided as two steps performed first with reagent R X e.g. as described herein and the unsubstituted copolymer 7 and then with reagent R X e.g. as described herein . If Rand Rare the same substituents then only one of the substitution reaction steps can be conducted. If Rand Rare different then these substituents can be added in any desired order. A skilled artisan would understand that other modifications could be made to form the desired copolymer II . In exemplary Scheme IIA Arin formula II is Ar R which is a non limiting embodiment.

As shown in Scheme IIB the polymer of formula II can be formed by performing a Diels Alder reaction to form the pendent and backbone aryl groups in the first segment performing substitution reactions to introduce Rand Rto the first segment and then coupling the first and second segments. These three steps are described in more detail below.

Similar to that of Schemes I and IIA the first segment is formed by performing a Diels Alder reaction with a 4 bis 2 4 5 triphenylcyclopentadienone arylene reagent 1 and a diethynylarylene reagent 2 in the presence of a monoethynylarylene reagent 3 . This reaction provides a polymer reagent 6 having a terminal reactive end group R.

Then substitution reaction s can be performed with reagent R X e.g. as described herein and the polymer reagent 6 and then with reagent R X e.g. as described herein . A skilled artisan would understand that modifications could be made to form the desired polymer reagent IV . Finally the polymer reagent IV is reacted with a second polymer reagent V having a hydrophobic segment Ar thereby forming copolymer II . In exemplary Scheme IIB Arin formula II is Ar R which is a non limiting embodiment.

Any reactions herein can be conducted with any useful reagent solvent or conditions. An example of reagent 1 includes 1 4 bis 2 4 5 triphenylcyclopentadienone benzene and an example of reagent 2 includes diethynylbenzene reagent. Exemplary solvents useful for Diels Alder and substitution reactions include an ether e.g. diphenyl ether methylene chloride dichloroethane etc. Salts of any polymers can be obtained by reacting any product with a suitable acid or base to obtain the desired acid or base addition salt. Furthermore additional reaction steps can be conducted to further purify test or use any polymer herein.

Additional details on synthesis are described in Fujimoto C H et al. Ionomeric poly phenylene prepared by Diels Alder polymerization Synthesis and physical properties of a novel polyelectrolyte 2005 38 5010 6 Lim Y et al. Synthesis and properties of sulfonated poly phenylene sulfone s without ether linkage by Diels Alder reaction for PEMFC application 2014 119 16 23 Hibbs M R et al. Synthesis and characterization of poly phenylene based anion exchange membranes for alkaline fuel cells 2009 42 8316 21 Jakoby K et al. Palladium catalyzed phosphonation of polyphenylsulfone 2003 204 61 7 Parcero E et al. Phosphonated and sulfonated polyphenylsulfone membranes for fuel cell application 2006 285 206 13 Poppe D et al. Carboxylated and sulfonated poly arylene co arylene sulfone s thermostable polyelectrolytes for fuel cell applications 2002 35 7936 41 and Akiko O et al. Electrophilic aromatic aroylation with CF bearing arenecarboxylic acid derivatives Reaction behavior and acidic mediator dependence 2007 37 2701 15 as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 110 636 and 7 301 002 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The polymers of the invention can be used in a variety of electrochemical applications. For instance any polymer herein can be prepared as a membrane e.g. by casting and the membrane e.g. a proton exchange membrane can be incorporated into any device. Exemplary devices include fuel cells e.g. automotive fuel cells hydrogen fuel cells or direct methanol fuel cells flow batteries e.g. redox flow batteries such as vanadium redox flow batteries electrolyzers electrochemical hydrogen production devices etc. The membranes can be used for any use such as a proton exchange membrane an ion exchange resin a polymer separator etc. In addition the membranes can be in any useful form such as a hydrogel. Membranes formed from the polymers herein can in some instances display enhanced properties such as enhanced ion exchange capacity decreased water uptake and or enhanced durability e.g. as determined by stress strain measurements . Methods of forming and testing membranes are described in Fujimoto C H et al. 2005 38 5010 6 Lim Y et al. 2014 119 16 23 Sun C N et al. Evaluation of Diels Alder poly phenylene anion exchange membranes in all vanadium redox flow batteries 2014 43 63 6 Merle G et al. Anion exchange membranes for alkaline fuel cells A review 2011 377 1 35 Stanis R J et al. Evaluation of hydrogen and methanol fuel cell performance of sulfonated Diels Alder poly phenylene membranes 2010 195 104 10 and Fujimoto C et al. Vanadium redox flow battery efficiency and durability studies of sulfonated Diels Alder poly phenylene s 2012 20 48 51 as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 809 483 8 110 636 and 7 888 397 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Described herein are design strategies to provide high performance low cost and durable membranes. In particular such polymeric membranes will have operational temperatures at about 120 C. for transportation applications. In particular the polymers have a backbone structure of a Diels Alder polyphenylene DAPP . For instance shows an exemplary sulfonated DAPP SDAPP polymer including an aromatic backbone with pendent aromatic groups. The building blocks of these materials are solely aromatic groups which provide superior chemical and thermal stability over other hydrocarbon alternatives that typically contain weaker aryl heteroatom bonds. In addition other aryl based polymers e.g. such as those including a 2 5 disulfophenylene monomer can provide brittle membrane assemblies because the polymer prevents effective polymer chain entanglements.

We believe the novel poly phenylene s herein can impart several advantages including methods of polymer synthesis and resultant structures having high density sulfonation and or ordered polymer block structures. Unlike the synthesis of some poly phenylene polymers that require the total absence of water air the methods herein employ Diels Alder condensation between a bis tetracyclone and di ethynyl benzene for chain propagation see e.g. Scheme I which shows a Diels Alder reaction between the bis tetracyclone based reagent 1 and the di ethynyl based reagent 2 .

There are several advantages to this Diels Alder condensation approach. First the polymerization reaction is robust and can be conducted in an aqueous environment without the presence of a catalyst. Thus the user does not have to strictly control water condensation and water content during synthesis and costly catalysts can be avoided. Second the reaction is non reversible thereby reducing potential re combining side reactions and allowing high molecular weight polymers e.g. Mmore than about 100 000 to be achieved. Third the polymer backbone is not a rigid rod and does not include meta linkages which results in kinks in the backbone. Such kinks can provide chain entanglements which in turn provide a more brittle material. By avoiding such linkages in the present polymer of the invention the resultant material can withstand higher stresses and strains.

High density sulfonation can provide polymers having enhanced proton conduction properties. Recent work by Maalouf M et al. Factors enabling high mobility of protons and water in perfluorosulfonate membranes under low hydration conditions 2014 February 39 6 2795 800 has shown that closely spaced sulfonate side chains enable proton transport along the pore wall surface transport allowing proton conduction at low water content. Thus one design strategy for highly conductive low water membranes is the use of high concentration of acid groups within close proximity with each other. In the DAPP repeat unit of our previous work acid attachment was limited to only pendent aryl groups left .

Here we provide methods to sulfonate the entire DAPP repeat unit both pendent and backbone where such fully sulfonated DAPP FS DAPP polymers have twice the amount of acid moieties attached per repeat group right . By placing a high concentration of acid moieties in the hydrophilic segment the FS DAPP polymer exhibits increased ion exchange capacity IEC e.g. the FS DAPP has an IEC value of about 6.4 mequivalents g . The close proximity of the acid groups 10 acid groups per repeat unit allows for the shortest possible sulfonate sulfonate distances and also improves water transport through higher sulfonate water interactions.

Finally the polymers and methods herein can have ordered polymer block structures. Using the methods herein ordered blocks can be synthesized with the desired type and ratio of hydrophilic and hydrophobic segments. For instance the type of hydrophilic segments e.g. having a particular type and amount of an acidic moiety can determine the ion exchange capacity of the copolymer. In addition the type of hydrophobic segment can be chosen to have the desired oxidative resistance stress strain characteristics etc.

The ratio of the hydrophilic segments and hydrophobic segments e.g. ratio m n can determine various bulk properties of the copolymer material. For instance the bulk copolymer generally includes regions or channels having high local concentrations of hydrophilic segments. Such channels are self assembled as the material conforms to minimize energetic interactions between the differing hydrophobic and hydrophilic domains. These hydrophilic channels facilitate the transport of protons and the hydrophobic domains impart strength to the polymer material. Higher amounts of the hydrophilic segment e.g. m n provide higher channel connectivity and thus higher ion exchange capacity.

Ordered structures of hydrophilic and hydrophobic segments can be synthesized using the methods herein. As shown in the hydrophilic sulfonated DAPP segment was attached to a perfluorobiphenyl poly sulfone hydrophobic segment in a block copolymer arrangement. This copolymer exhibited conductivity at low relative humidity values and provided superior fuel cell performance as compared to Nafion standards 211 . Additional polymers include those having hydrophilic segments fully substituted with acidic moieties and or hydrophobic segments having electron withdrawing moieties e.g. any copolymer herein such as those having structures of Formula II II IIb 1 IIb 3 IIc IIc 1 IId III III 1 and III 2 .

Without wishing to be limited by mechanism by employing FS DAPP as a hydrophilic segment right this increase in localized acid concentration can further enhance the already high conductivity at low relative humidity and high temperature. The nature of the acid group can play a key role in conductivity since a higher acidic strength promotes proton dissociation even at low water content. Thus any useful acidic moiety can be employed in the present invention e.g. aryl sulfonic acids and sulfonyl imides. In particular sulfonyl imides are known for their high acidity and thermochemical stability. By combining the higher acidity of sulfonyl imides and the high concentration due to the DAPP acid positioning e.g. as in polymer IIb 2 in polymer IIb 3 in polymer IIb 4 in and polymer IIb 5 in we anticipate even better conduction at low RH versus the aryl sulfonic block copolymer. Accordingly the present invention encompasses in part polymers and copolymers having a high local concentration of acidic moieties.

In addition to fuel cells for automotive application the polymers and membranes herein can be used in vanadium redox flow batteries VRFB for grid scale energy storage. The membranes exhibited high energy efficiencies close to 90 in a VRFB. However polymer SDAPP including only pendent acid moieties e.g. as in polymer III 1 or III 2 in displayed poor cyclic durability ranging from 50 400 cycles before failure or performance drop. Vanadium V V is the strongest oxidant in a working VRFB and is known to cause membrane damage.

We performed an ex situ durability test on the SDAPP membrane left which were soaked in solutions with different ion contents varying degrees of acid content . The solutions included dilute Vsolutions 0.1M VO which provides a yellow color. If oxidation of the membrane occurs then the solution will change color due to the formation of V blue in color and the resultant solution will give a green hue. All of the SDAPP membranes changed color in time having the rate of degradation proportional to the ion content of the membrane. Without wishing to be limited by mechanism we believe that oxidation is occurring at the un substituted pendent rings on the polymer backbone where un substituted rings are circled . In contrast we believe that the substituted rings on SDAPP including sulfonic acid groups are not being oxidized because these acid groups are electron withdrawing. In general electron withdrawing groups deactivate aryl groups to oxidation and should either prevent or reduce the extent of oxidation by Vspecies.

To improve on the SDAPP membranes pendent aryl rings can be protected. In order to protect the remaining pendent aryl groups we sought to functionalize them with trifluoromethylbenzoyl. Trifluoromethyl benzoyl groups are electron withdrawing moieties which deactivates it towards oxidation. Unlike traditional Friedel Crafts acylation reactions that employ a Lewis acid such as AlClor FeClin combination of benzoyl chloride and aryl group common Lewis acids such as AlClreact with C F bonds and generate mixed products Akiko O et al. Electrophilic aromatic aroylation with CF bearing arenecarboxylic acid derivatives reaction behavior and acidic mediator dependence 2007 37 2701 15 has shown that triflic acid is an effective acid mediator for acylation of benzoyl chlorides containing the CFmoiety .

Such membranes e.g. having protected pendent aryl rings as well as optionally protected backbone aryl rings can improve efficiency of the membrane in a battery or a flow cell. Such improvements include enhanced charge capacity ratio e.g. of from about 90 to about 100 enhanced energy efficiency e.g. of from about 0.75 to 1.0 such as from 0.75 to 0.9 enhanced coulombic efficiency e.g. of from about 0.9 to 1.0 enhanced voltage efficiency e.g. of from about 0.8 to 0.9 . Furthermore such improvements can be maintained over numerous cycles e.g. more than 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 or more cycles .

We have applied the chemistry in Akiko et al. onto the unsubstituted Diels Alder polyphenylene polymer which included a fluorine label F labeled DAPP shown in . The F labeled DAPP was reacted with 4 trifluorobenzoyl chloride in the presence of triflic acid . First 0.76 g of F labeled DAPP 0.98 mmol was dissolved in 120 mL of 1 2 dichloroethene DCE and 1.42 g of 4 trifluorobenzoyl chloride 6.8 mmol was added to this yellow solution. About 0.102 g of triflic acid 0.68 mmol was added to the reaction to provide a dark brown solution. The reaction was then heated to reflux overnight. The next day the solution was added to water the excess acid was quenched with KCO and the resultant solution was heated to remove DCE. The remaining solid was then collected and rinsed with water several times and dried in a vacuum oven overnight at 60 C.

By using 19F NMR with the fluorine label on the backbone as a reference we monitored the amount of trifluoromethylbenzoyl that was attached to the backbone. The product was dissolved in d chloroform for 19F NMR analysis to determine CFquantitative incorporation . The signal at 114 ppm corresponds to the backbone aryl F while the peak at 63 ppm corresponds to CF. Using the peak at 1114 ppm as a reference signal of 1 six of the pendent aryl groups were functionalized with CFbenzoyl moieties per repeat group.

Sulfonic acid can be attached to the fluorinated polymers by dissolving the polymer in sulfuric acid at room temperature for three days . As an example after the F labeled DAPP was functionalized with four 4 trifluorobenzoyl groups 0.7 g of this material was added to 30 mL of HSO. After three days a black solution formed. The thick solution was added to ice water and a white solid precipitated out of solution. The solid was rinsed several times with deionized water to remove any remaining acid. The solid was then dried at 70 C. overnight in an oven to remove excess water. The dried product was dissolved in dimethylacetamide approx. 20 mL per gram passed through a 5 micron syringe frit to remove any insoluble matter and then cast on a clean glass plate which was heated to 70 C. in a vacuum oven to remove the solvent. The polymer film was then recovered after most of the solvent had been removed.

The film was characterized. The ion content was determined to be 2.14 mequivalents g water uptake was 100 and proton conductivity in liquid water was 76 mS cm. This film was then tested to gauge improved stability in V. In this study concentrated VOwas used i.e. 2.0M instead of 0.1M . Concentrated Vprovided a red solution unlike dilute V which is a yellow solution . When Vis converted to Vin a concentrated environment a black color is observed. As can be seen in a sulfonated Diels Alder poly phenylene polymer lacking protecting moieties on the pendent aryl groups labeled SDAPP in reacts almost immediately e.g. within 20 minutes with Vto give a black hue. In contrast the new sulfonic acid trifluoromethyl benzoyl functionalized polymer having the structure Id 2 in labeled OSG in does not form Vuntil nearly about 24 hour later indicating the improved oxidative stability of these materials.

Other structural arrangements of trifluoromethyl benzoyl are encompassed by the present invention. In addition to trifluoromethyl groups other fluorinated or perfluorinated groups can be provided on the aryl group. Exemplary fluorinated groups include perfluoroalkyl e.g. pentafluoroethyl and perfluoroalkoxy groups.

Although one purpose of trifluoromethyl benzoyl attachment is to improve oxidative stability use of this approach allows for the fluorination of the DAPP backbone thereby providing a potential replacement for any useful hydrophobic segment e.g. polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or Teflon . Fluoropolymers are especially useful because of their unique combination of thermal stability chemical resistance low surface energy low refractive index and high insulating ability. However due to the fluoropolymer s high degree of crystallinity these materials are often difficult to solution or melt process which increases manufacturing costs. Thus low crystalline fluoropolymers are of interest and the present methods can be employed to synthesize hydrophobic fluoropolymer domains and to install such domains on copolymers. In one instance provides a DAPP oligomer that is end capped with reactive end groups e.g. reactive fluorine groups that can further be reacted with nucleophilic capped reagents e.g. reactant V in . This DAPP oligomer can be used to synthesize any useful polymer or copolymer that would benefit from those qualities observed in fluoropolymers e.g. thermal stability and or chemical resistance as well as to replace polymers or segments thereof that typically employ PTFE.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

