---

title: Enclosure cooling using early compressor turn-off with extended fan operation
abstract: Systems and methods are described for controlling fan-only cooling. A first phase of a first cooling cycle may be initiated in an enclosure using an air conditioning system having a compressor and a fan that passes air over an evaporator coil. The first phase may include activation of the compressor and activation of the fan. A relative humidity may be measured within the enclosure during the first phase of the first cooling cycle. Subsequent to the first phase and in response to the relative humidity being determined to be below a threshold relative humidity, a second phase of the first cooling cycle may be initiated during which the fan is activated but the compressor is not activated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09534805&OS=09534805&RS=09534805
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09534805
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150623
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 434 573 filed Mar. 29 2012. This application is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

This patent specification relates to systems methods and related computer program products for the monitoring and control of energy consuming systems or other resource consuming systems. More particularly this patent specification relates to systems and methods for updating climate control algorithms.

Substantial effort and attention continues toward the development of newer and more sustainable energy supplies. The conservation of energy by increased energy efficiency remains crucial to the world s energy future. According to an October 2010 report from the U.S. Department of Energy heating and cooling account for 56 of the energy use in a typical U.S. home. Along with improvements in the physical plant associated with home heating and cooling e.g. improved insulation higher efficiency furnaces substantial increases in energy efficiency can be achieved by better control and regulation of home heating and cooling equipment. By activating heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC equipment for judiciously selected time intervals and carefully chosen operating levels substantial energy can be saved while at the same time keeping the living space suitably comfortable for its occupants.

In common air conditioning operation a compressor compresses a refrigerant gas which condenses in a condenser coil. The refrigerant passes through an expansion valve and into an evaporator coil that is cooled by the expanding and evaporating refrigerant. A fan is used to pass air over the cooled evaporator coil and move the cooled air into the indoor environment. As the air conditioning system operates depending on the dew point of the air in the ducts and the temperature of the coil condensation tends to form on the evaporator coil. After the air conditioning system ceases in normal operation the compressor and the fan are both turned off. However if sufficient condensation has collected on the evaporator coil additional cooling can be provided by continuing to operate the fan without the compressor. Of the two main energy consuming parts of the system the compressor generally consumes energy at a far greater rate than the fan. Accordingly in some situations overall cooling costs and energy can be lowered by operating fan only cooling for some time after each conventional air conditioning cycle.

Provided according to one or more embodiments is a method for cooling an enclosure. The method includes initiating a first phase of a cooling cycle using an air conditioning system having a compressor an evaporator coil and a fan adapted to pass air over the evaporator coil. In this first phase the compressor and the fan are both activated. Subsequent to the first phase a second phase is initiated in which the fan is activated but the compressor is not activated. One or more parameters such as temperature are measured during the second phase. The duration of the second phase of a subsequent cooling cycle is altered or adjusted based on the measurements during the first cooling cycle. According to some embodiments a thermostat is used to initiate the first and second phases as well as make adjustments to the duration of the subsequent second phase.

According to some embodiments the duration of the second phase of the subsequent cooling cycle depends on an expected temperature drop that is based on the temperature drop during the second phase of the first cooling cycle. According to some embodiments the second phase is initiated when the expected temperature drop is expected to cool the enclosure to about the lower maintenance band temperature. According to some embodiments the duration of the second phase also depends on an expected amount of time for the expected temperature drop.

According to some embodiments the initiation of the second phase does not occur unless a predetermined time limit has elapsed such that sufficient condensation is allowed to form on the evaporator coil during the first phase. According to some embodiments the initiation of the second phase does not occur unless relative humidity within the enclosure is below a predetermined threshold which in some examples is set between 45 and 60 percent relative humidity.

According to some embodiments the thermostat includes high power consuming circuitry adapted to perform a plurality of high power consuming activities and low power consuming circuitry adapted to perform a plurality of low power activities and the high power circuitry is allowed to enter an inactive state to conserve power within the thermostat while the lower power circuitry measures and records one or more parameters.

According to some embodiments a method for cooling an enclosure is described which includes initiating a first phase of a cooling cycle using both the compressor and the fan of the air conditioning system measuring relative humidity within the enclosure and subsequently when the measured relative humidity is below a threshold level initiating a second phase of the cooling cycle wherein the fan is activated and the compressor is not activated. According to some embodiments the threshold is predetermined and set between 45 and 60 percent relative humidity.

According to some embodiments a method for controlling cooling in an enclosure using a thermostat is described. The method includes using the thermostat to initiate a first phase of a cooling cycle using both the compressor and the fan of the air conditioning system automatically detecting if a fan control wire is connected to the thermostat and subsequently in cases where a connection of a fan control wire to the thermostat is detected initiating a second phase of the cooling cycle which uses the fan but not the compressor.

It will be appreciated that these systems and methods are novel as are applications thereof and many of the components systems methods and algorithms employed and included therein. It should be appreciated that embodiments of the presently described inventive body of work can be implemented in numerous ways including as processes apparata systems devices methods computer readable media computational algorithms embedded or distributed software and or as a combination thereof. Several illustrative embodiments are described below.

The subject matter of this patent specification also relates to the subject matter of the following commonly assigned applications U.S. Ser. No. 12 881 430 filed Sep. 14 2010 U.S. Ser. No. 12 881 463 filed Sep. 14 2010 U.S. Prov. Ser. No. 61 415 771 filed Nov. 19 2010 U.S. Prov. Ser. No. 61 429 093 filed Dec. 31 2010 U.S. Ser. No. 12 984 602 filed Jan. 4 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 12 987 257 filed Jan. 10 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 033 573 filed Feb. 23 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 386 021 filed Feb. 23 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 034 666 filed Feb. 24 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 034 674 filed Feb. 24 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 034 678 filed Feb. 24 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 038 191 filed Mar. 1 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 038 206 filed Mar. 1 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 609 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 614 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 617 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 618 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 621 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 623 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 625 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 627 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 630 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 632 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 633 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 636 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 399 637 filed Aug. 16 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 199 108 filed Aug. 17 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 267 871 filed Oct. 6 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 267 877 filed Oct. 6 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 269 501 filed Oct. 7 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 096 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 097 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 098 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 099 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 101 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 103 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 104 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 29 404 105 filed Oct. 14 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 275 307 filed Oct. 17 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 275 311 filed Oct. 17 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 317 423 filed Oct. 17 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 279 151 filed Oct. 21 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 317 557 filed Oct. 21 2011 and U.S. Prov. Ser. No. 61 627 996 filed Oct. 21 2011. PCT US11 61339 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61344 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61365 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61379 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61391 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61479 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61457 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61470 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61339 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61491 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61437 filed Nov. 18 2011 PCT US11 61503 filed Nov. 18 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 13 342 156 filed Jan. 2 2012 PCT US12 00008 filed Jan. 3 2012 PCT US12 20088 filed Jan. 3 2012 PCT US12 20026 filed Jan. 3 2012 PCT US12 00007 filed Jan. 3 2012 U.S. Ser. No. 13 351 688 filed Jan. 17 2012 U.S. Ser. No. 13 356 762 filed Jan. 24 2012 and PCT US12 30084 filed Mar. 22 2012. Each of the above referenced patent applications is incorporated by reference herein. The above referenced patent applications are collectively referenced hereinbelow as the commonly assigned incorporated applications. 

A detailed description of the inventive body of work is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that the inventive body of work is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the inventive body of work some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the inventive body of work.

As used herein the term HVAC includes systems providing both heating and cooling heating only cooling only as well as systems that provide other occupant comfort and or conditioning functionality such as humidification dehumidification and ventilation.

As used herein the terms power harvesting sharing and stealing when referring to HVAC thermostats all refer to the thermostat are designed to derive power from the power transformer through the equipment load without using a direct or common wire source directly from the transformer.

As used herein the term residential when referring to an HVAC system means a type of HVAC system that is suitable to heat cool and or otherwise condition the interior of a building that is primarily used as a single family dwelling. An example of a cooling system that would be considered residential would have a cooling capacity of less than about 5 tons of refrigeration 1 ton of refrigeration 12 000 Btu h .

As used herein the term light commercial when referring to an HVAC system means a type of HVAC system that is suitable to heat cool and or otherwise condition the interior of a building that is primarily used for commercial purposes but is of a size and construction that a residential HVAC system is considered suitable. An example of a cooling system that would be considered residential would have a cooling capacity of less than about 5 tons of refrigeration.

As used herein the term thermostat means a device or system for regulating parameters such as temperature and or humidity within at least a part of an enclosure. The term thermostat may include a control unit for a heating and or cooling system or a component part of a heater or air conditioner. As used herein the term thermostat can also refer generally to a versatile sensing and control unit VSCU unit that is configured and adapted to provide sophisticated customized energy saving HVAC control functionality while at the same time being visually appealing non intimidating elegant to behold and delightfully easy to use.

Some embodiments of thermostat in incorporate one or more sensors to gather data from the environment associated with enclosure . Sensors incorporated in thermostat may detect occupancy temperature light and other environmental conditions and influence the control and operation of HVAC system . Sensors incorporated within thermostat do not protrude from the surface of the thermostat thereby providing a sleek and elegant design that does not draw attention from the occupants in a house or other enclosure. As a result thermostat readily fits with almost any decor while adding to the overall appeal of the interior design.

As used herein a learning thermostat refers to a thermostat or one of plural communicating thermostats in a multi thermostat network having an ability to automatically establish and or modify at least one future setpoint in a heating and or cooling schedule based on at least one automatically sensed event and or at least one past or current user input. As used herein a primary thermostat refers to a thermostat that is electrically connected to actuate all or part of an HVAC system such as by virtue of electrical connection to HVAC control wires e.g. W G Y etc. leading to the HVAC system. As used herein an auxiliary thermostat refers to a thermostat that is not electrically connected to actuate an HVAC system but that otherwise contains at least one sensor and influences or facilitates primary thermostat control of an HVAC system by virtue of data communications with the primary thermostat. In one particularly useful scenario the thermostat is a primary learning thermostat and is wall mounted and connected to all of the HVAC control wires while the remote thermostat is an auxiliary learning thermostat positioned on a nightstand or dresser the auxiliary learning thermostat being similar in appearance and user interface features as the primary learning thermostat the auxiliary learning thermostat further having similar sensing capabilities e.g. temperature humidity motion ambient light proximity as the primary learning thermostat but the auxiliary learning thermostat not being connected to any of the HVAC wires. Although it is not connected to any HVAC wires the auxiliary learning thermostat wirelessly communicates with and cooperates with the primary learning thermostat for improved control of the HVAC system such as by providing additional temperature data at its respective location in the enclosure providing additional occupancy information providing an additional user interface for the user and so forth.

It is to be appreciated that while certain embodiments are particularly advantageous where the thermostat is a primary learning thermostat and the remote thermostat is an auxiliary learning thermostat the scope of the present teachings is not so limited. Thus for example while certain initial provisioning methods that automatically pair associate a network connected thermostat with an online user account are particularly advantageous where the thermostat is a primary learning thermostat the methods are more generally applicable to scenarios involving primary non learning thermostats auxiliary learning thermostats auxiliary non learning thermostats or other types of network connected thermostats and or network connected sensors. By way of further example while certain graphical user interfaces for remote control of a thermostat may be particularly advantageous where the thermostat is a primary learning thermostat the methods are more generally applicable to scenarios involving primary non learning thermostats auxiliary learning thermostats auxiliary non learning thermostats or other types of network connected thermostats and or network connected sensors. By way of even further example while certain methods for cooperative battery conserving information polling of a thermostat by a remote cloud based management server may be particularly advantageous where the thermostat is a primary learning thermostat the methods are more generally applicable to scenarios involving primary non learning thermostats auxiliary learning thermostats auxiliary non learning thermostats or other types of network connected thermostats and or network connected sensors.

Enclosure further includes a private network accessible both wirelessly and through wired connections and may also be referred to as a Local Area Network or LAN. Network devices on the private network include a computer thermostat and remote thermostat in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. In one embodiment the private network is implemented using an integrated router that provides routing wireless access point functionality firewall and multiple wired connection ports for connecting to various wired network devices such as computer . Other embodiments may instead use multiple discrete switches routers and other devices not shown to perform networking functions equivalent to or in addition to those provided by integrated router .

Integrated router further provides network devices access to a public network such as the Internet provided enclosure has a connection to the public network generally through a cable modem DSL modem and a service provider of the Internet or other public network. The Internet and other public networks are sometimes referred to as a Wide Area Network or WAN. In one embodiment integrated router may direct communications to other devices on these networks using a network protocol such as TCP IP. If the communications are directed to a device or service outside the private network integrated router may route the communications outside the private network to the public network such as the Internet.

In some embodiments thermostat may wirelessly communicate with remote thermostat over the private network or through an ad hoc network formed directly with remote thermostat . During communication with remote thermostat thermostat may gather information remotely from the user and from the environment detectable by the remote thermostat . For example remote thermostat may wirelessly communicate with the thermostat providing user input from the remote location of remote thermostat or may be used to display information to a user or both. Like thermostat embodiments of remote thermostat may also include sensors to gather data related to occupancy temperature light and other environmental conditions. In an alternate embodiment remote thermostat may also be located outside of the enclosure .

In accordance with some embodiments a computer device in enclosure may remotely control thermostat by accessing a thermostat management account through a thermostat management system not shown in located on a public network such as the Internet. The thermostat management system passes control information over the network back to thermostat provided the thermostat is also associated or paired to the thermostat management account on the thermostat management system. Data collected by thermostat also passes from the private network associated with enclosure through integrated router and to the thermostat management system over the public network. Other computer devices not in enclosure such as Smartphones laptops and tablet computers not shown in may also control thermostat provided they have access to the public network and both the thermostat management system and thermostat management account. Further details on accessing the public network such as the Internet and a thermostat like thermostat in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is described in further detail later herein.

In heating heating coils or elements within air handler provide a source of heat using electricity or gas via line . Cool air is drawn from the enclosure via return air duct through filter using fan and is heated through heating coils or elements . The heated air flows back into the enclosure at one or more locations via supply air duct system and supply air registers such as register . In cooling an outside compressor passes a gas such as Freon through a set of heat exchanger coils and then through an expansion valve. The gas then goes through line to the cooling coils or evaporator coils in the air handler where it expands cools and cools the air being circulated via fan . A humidifier may optionally be included in various embodiments that returns moisture to the air before it passes through duct system . Although not shown in alternate embodiments of HVAC system may have other functionality such as venting air to and from the outside one or more dampers to control airflow within the duct system and an emergency heating unit. Overall operation of HVAC system is selectively actuated by control electronics communicating with thermostat over control wires .

Although being formed from a single lens like piece of material such as polycarbonate the cover has two different regions or portions including an outer portion and a central portion . According to some embodiments the cover is painted or smoked around the outer portion but leaves the central portion visibly clear so as to facilitate viewing of an electronic display disposed thereunderneath. According to some embodiments the curved cover acts as a lens that tends to magnify the information being displayed in electronic display to users. According to some embodiments the central electronic display is a dot matrix layout individually addressable such that arbitrary shapes can be generated rather than being a segmented layout. According to some embodiments a combination of dot matrix layout and segmented layout is employed. According to some embodiments central display is a backlit color liquid crystal display LCD . An example of information displayed on the electronic display is illustrated in and includes central numerals that are representative of a current setpoint temperature. According to some embodiments metallic portion has a number of slot like openings so as to facilitate the use of a passive infrared motion sensor mounted therebeneath. The metallic portion can alternatively be termed a metallic front grille portion. Further description of the metallic portion front grille portion is provided in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 13 199 108 supra. The thermostat is preferably constructed such that the electronic display is at a fixed orientation and does not rotate with the outer ring so that the electronic display remains easily read by the user. For some embodiments the cover and metallic portion also remain at a fixed orientation and do not rotate with the outer ring . According to one embodiment in which the diameter of the thermostat is about 80 mm the diameter of the electronic display is about 45 mm. According to some embodiments an LED indicator is positioned beneath portion to act as a low power consuming indicator of certain status conditions. For example the LED indicator can be used to display blinking red when a rechargeable battery of the thermostat see infra is very low and is being recharged. More generally the LED indicator can be used for communicating one or more status codes or error codes by virtue of red color green color various combinations of red and green various different blinking rates and so forth which can be useful for troubleshooting purposes.

Motion sensing as well as other techniques can be use used in the detection and or predict of occupancy as is described further in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 12 881 430 supra. According to some embodiments occupancy information is used in generating an effective and efficient scheduled program. Preferably an active proximity sensor A is provided to detect an approaching user by infrared light reflection and an ambient light sensor B is provided to sense visible light. The proximity sensor A can be used to detect proximity in the range of about one meter so that the thermostat can initiate waking up when the user is approaching the thermostat and prior to the user touching the thermostat. Such use of proximity sensing is useful for enhancing the user experience by being ready for interaction as soon as or very soon after the user is ready to interact with the thermostat. Further the wake up on proximity functionality also allows for energy savings within the thermostat by sleeping when no user interaction is taking place or about to take place. The ambient light sensor B can be used for a variety of intelligence gathering purposes such as for facilitating confirmation of occupancy when sharp rising or falling edges are detected because it is likely that there are occupants who are turning the lights on and off and such as for detecting long term e.g. 24 hour patterns of ambient light intensity for confirming and or automatically establishing the time of day.

According to some embodiments for the combined purposes of inspiring user confidence and further promoting visual and functional elegance the thermostat is controlled by only two types of user input the first being a rotation of the outer ring as shown in referenced hereafter as a rotate ring or ring rotation input and the second being an inward push on an outer cap see until an audible and or tactile click occurs referenced hereafter as an inward click or simply click input . For the embodiment of the outer cap is an assembly that includes all of the outer ring cover electronic display and metallic portion . When pressed inwardly by the user the outer cap travels inwardly by a small amount such as 0.5 mm against an interior metallic dome switch not shown and then springably travels back outwardly by that same amount when the inward pressure is released providing a satisfying tactile click sensation to the user s hand along with a corresponding gentle audible clicking sound. Thus for the embodiment of an inward click can be achieved by direct pressing on the outer ring itself or by indirect pressing of the outer ring by virtue of providing inward pressure on the cover metallic portion or by various combinations thereof. For other embodiments the thermostat can be mechanically configured such that only the outer ring travels inwardly for the inward click input while the cover and metallic portion remain motionless. It is to be appreciated that a variety of different selections and combinations of the particular mechanical elements that will travel inwardly to achieve the inward click input are within the scope of the present teachings whether it be the outer ring itself some part of the cover or some combination thereof. However it has been found particularly advantageous to provide the user with an ability to quickly go back and forth between registering ring rotations and inward clicks with a single hand and with minimal amount of time and effort involved and so the ability to provide an inward click directly by pressing the outer ring has been found particularly advantageous since the user s fingers do not need to be lifted out of contact with the device or slid along its surface in order to go between ring rotations and inward clicks. Moreover by virtue of the strategic placement of the electronic display centrally inside the rotatable ring a further advantage is provided in that the user can naturally focus his or her attention on the electronic display throughout the input process right in the middle of where his or her hand is performing its functions. The combination of intuitive outer ring rotation especially as applied to but not limited to the changing of a thermostat s setpoint temperature conveniently folded together with the satisfying physical sensation of inward clicking together with accommodating natural focus on the electronic display in the central midst of their fingers activity adds significantly to an intuitive seamless and downright fun user experience. Further descriptions of advantageous mechanical user interfaces and related designs which are employed according to some embodiments can be found in U.S. Ser. No. 13 033 573 supra U.S. Ser. No. 29 386 021 supra and U.S. Ser. No. 13 199 108 supra.

According to some embodiments the thermostat includes a processing system display driver and a wireless communications system . The processing system is adapted to cause the display driver and display area to display information to the user and to receiver user input via the rotatable ring . The processing system according to some embodiments is capable of carrying out the governance of the operation of thermostat including the user interface features described herein. The processing system is further programmed and configured to carry out other operations as described further hereinbelow and or in other ones of the commonly assigned incorporated applications. For example processing system is further programmed and configured to maintain and update a thermodynamic model for the enclosure in which the HVAC system is installed such as described in U.S. Ser. No. 12 881 463 supra and in International Patent App. No. PCT US11 51579 incorporated herein by reference. According to some embodiments the wireless communications system is used to communicate with devices such as personal computers and or other thermostats or HVAC system components which can be peer to peer communications communications through one or more servers located on a private network and or communications through a cloud based service.

Backplate includes electronics and a temperature humidity sensor in housing which are ventilated via vents . Two or more temperature sensors not shown are also located in the head unit and cooperate to acquire reliable and accurate room temperature data. Wire connectors are provided to allow for connection to HVAC system wires. Connection terminal provides electrical connections between the head unit and backplate . Backplate electronics also includes power sharing circuitry for sensing and harvesting power available power from the HVAC system circuitry. For the operation of fan cooling it is useful to detect the presence of a fan motor control wire often known as a G wire . According to some embodiments wire connectors are used to detect the physical and or electrical presence of an inserted wire. Additionally internal circuitry in thermostat can be used in combination with or instead of connectors to detect the presence of a wire. For further details of connectors and wire detection see co pending patent application U.S. Ser. No. 13 034 666 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The embodiments described herein are advantageously configured to be compatible with a large variety of conventional integrated routers that service a large population of homes and businesses. Thus by way of example only and not by way of limitation the router not shown that services the private network of can be for example a D Link DIR 655 Extreme N Wireless Router a Netgear WNDR3700 RangeMax Dual Band Wireless USB Gigabit Router a Buffalo Technology Nfiniti WZR HP G300NH Wireless N Router an Asus RT N16 Wireless Router Cisco Linksys E4200 Dual Band Wireless Router or a Cisco Linksys E4200 Dual Band Wireless Router. Without loss of generality some descriptions further hereinbelow will refer to an exemplary scenario in which the thermostats are used in a home environment. However it is to be appreciated that the described embodiments are not so limited and are applicable to use of such thermostat s in any of a variety of enclosures including residential homes business vacation homes hotels hotel rooms industrial facilities and generally anywhere there is an HVAC system to be controlled.

Thermostat access client is a client application designed in accordance with aspects of the present invention to access the thermostat management system over public network . The term thermostat management system can be interchangeably referenced as a cloud based management server for the thermostats or more simply cloud server in various descriptions hereinabove and hereinbelow. Because thermostat access client is designed to execute on different devices multiple client applications may be developed using different technologies based on the requirements of the underlying device platform or operating system. For some embodiments thermostat access client is implemented such that end users operate their Internet accessible devices e.g. desktop computers notebook computers Internet enabled mobile devices cellphones having rendering engines or the like that are capable of accessing and interacting with the thermostat management system . The end user machine or device has a web browser e.g. Internet Explorer Firefox Chrome Safari or other rendering engine that typically is compatible with AJAX technologies e.g. XHTML XML CSS DOM JSON and the like . AJAX technologies include XHTML Extensible HTML and CSS Cascading Style Sheets for marking up and styling information the use of DOM Document Object Model accessed with client side scripting languages the use of an XMLHttpRequest object an API used by a scripting language to transfer XML and other text data asynchronously to and from a server using HTTP and use of XML or JSON Javascript Object Notation a lightweight data interchange format as a format to transfer data between the server and the client. In a web environment an end user accesses the site in the usual manner i.e. by opening the browser to a URL associated with a service provider domain. The user may authenticate to the site or some portion thereof by entry of a username and password. The connection between the end user entity machine and the system may be private e.g. via SSL . The server side of the system may comprise conventional hosting components such as IP switches web servers application servers administration servers databases and the like. Where AJAX is used on the client side client side code an AJAX shim executes natively in the end user s web browser or other rendering engine. Typically this code is served to the client machine when the end user accesses the site although in the alternative it may be resident on the client machine persistently. Finally while a web based application over Internet Protocol IP is described this is not a limitation as the techniques and exposed user interface technologies may be provided by a standalone application in any runtime application whether fixed line or mobile. It is to be appreciated that although the TCP IP protocol is set forth as the network protocol used for communications among the thermostat management system the thermostat access client and other devices for some embodiments it is set forth by way of example and not by way of limitation in that any other suitable protocol such as UDP over IP in particular may be used without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

In yet another embodiment thermostat access client may be a stand alone application or app designed to be downloaded and run on a specific device such as smartphone or a tablet device running the Apple iOS operating system Android operating system or others. Developers create these stand alone applications using a set of application programming interfaces APIs and libraries provided by the device manufacturer packaged in software development toolkit or SDK. Once completed the app is made available for download to the respective device through an application store or app store curated by the app store owners to promote quality usability and customer satisfaction.

In one embodiment thermostat management system illustrated in may be accessed over public network by computer devices on private network running thermostat access client . Thermostat access client accesses a thermostat management account not illustrated provisioned by thermostat management system on behalf of the computer devices in order to access or control thermostat or remote thermostat . In addition a computer device on private network such as computer may use the thermostat access client and thermostat management account to gather data from thermostat and remote thermostat .

Thermostat and remote thermostat may be accessed remotely from numerous different locations on the private network or public network . As will be described in further detail hereinbelow upon installation a thermostat such as thermostat first registers with the thermostat management system and then requests the thermostat management system create a pairing between the thermostat and a corresponding thermostat management account. Thereafter a device such as a tablet may be connected to public network directly or through a series of other private networks not shown yet still access these thermostats while outside the private network where they are located by way of thermostat management system . In one embodiment a tablet running the Apple iOS operating system may remotely access these thermostats through the thermostat management system and thermostat management account using an iOS app version of thermostat access client . Pairing thermostats with the thermostat management account allows tablet and other computer devices to remotely control gather data and generally interact with thermostats such as thermostat and remote thermostat .

In one embodiment thermostat management system distributes the task of communication and control with the thermostats to one or more thermostat management servers . These thermostat management servers may coordinate communication manage access process data and analyze results using data produced by thermostats such as thermostat and remote thermostat . Intermediate and final results from computations on these servers as well as raw data may be stored temporarily or archived on thermostat databases for future reference and use. Thermostat management servers may also send a portion of the data along with control information and more generally any of a variety of different kinds of information back to thermostat and remote thermostat . Results from the thermostat management servers may also be stored in one or more thermostat databases for subsequent access by a device such as tablet running thermostat access client .

These thermostat management servers each may perform one or several discrete functions may serve as redundant fail over servers for these different discrete functions or may share performance of certain discrete functions in tandem or in a cluster as well as other combinations performing more complex operations in parallel or distributed over one or more clusters of computers. In some embodiments one of the thermostat management servers may correspond directly to a physical computer or computing device while in other embodiments the thermostat management servers may be virtualized servers running on one or more physical computers under the control of a virtual machine computing environment such as provided by VMWARE of Palo Alto Calif. or any other virtual machine provider. In yet another embodiment the thermostat management servers and thermostat databases are provisioned from a cloud computing and storage environment such as the Elastic Compute Cloud or EC2 offering from Amazon.com of Seattle Wash. In an EC2 solution for example the thermostat management servers may be allocated according to processor cycles and storage requirements rather than according to a number of computers either real or virtual thought to be required for the task at hand.

It has been found that of the two main energy consuming parts of the air conditioning system the compressor e.g. compressor and the fan e.g. blower fan the compressor generally consumes energy at a far greater rate than the fan. In many cases the compressor consumes energy at rate of several kilowatts or greater while the fan consumes energy at a rate of much less than one kilowatt. A differential of about one order of magnitude is not uncommon. Accordingly substantial savings of cost and energy can be provided by operating fan cooling following normal air conditioner operation. In the case of fan cooling the cooling comes from evaporating the condensate off of the evaporator coil which introduces water vapor into the indoor air which in turn increases the apparent temperature of the enclosure. Note that the cooling effect from fan cooling is based on evaporative cooling in contrast to some techniques that simply flush the lingering cool air out of the ducts. In some cases therefore fan cooling is less effective or even detrimental to indoor comfort. For example if insufficient condensation has formed on the evaporator coils then fan cooling is much less effective. Also when indoor relative humidity is high such as greater than 50 55 the indoor comfort level may not be improved through fan cooling. Additionally it has been found that the effectiveness of fan cooling depends on a number of other environmental factors such as temperature and humidity both indoors and outdoors as well as the particular designs of the air conditioning system and the structure being cooled. Thus it has been found that it is useful to adapt fan cooling to the particular situation. According to some embodiments it has been found that estimates of fan cooling effectiveness can be obtained by analyzing the system behavior during previous cooling cycles. In particular according to some embodiments an expected temperature drop due to fan cooling and an expected amount of time to achieve that drop are estimated from measurements of one or more prior cooling cycles.

According to some embodiments the thermostat includes a head unit such as head unit and a backplate such as backplate design wherein the head unit includes high power consuming circuitry adapted to perform high power activities such as interfacing with a user wireless communication and or processing computations to enable features such as learning and adapting fan control parameters while the backplate includes lower power consuming circuitry for performing lower power activities such as monitoring and logging sensor data such as temperature and humidity. Further according to such embodiments the higher power consuming head unit can temporarily operate in an active or awake state that consumes more power than can be harvested from the HVAC triggering circuitry by drawing power from a power storage device such as a rechargeable battery. The head unit goes inactive or into a sleep state when not in use so as to conserve battery power. In such embodiments the backplate under certain circumstances wakes up the sleeping head unit. For further detail of the head unit and backplate operation see International Application No. PCT US2011 061437. In the backplate which is used to monitor and record the current temperature and humidity sensor data wakes up the head unit under certain conditions marked on the plot with a square symbol. At point the backplate measures the current temperature as being equal or greater than the UMBT and therefore wake up the head unit. The head unit turns on HVAC cooling by turning on both the AC compressor and the fan motor as well as sets the fan cooling state to awaiting timer. 

After point the HVAC cooling using the AC compressor and fan cools the enclosure as can be seen by the steadily decreasing current temperature on plot . When the AC compressor is turned on at point condensation begins to collect on the AC evaporator coil. It has been found that if an insufficient amount of condensation has formed on the evaporator coil then fan cooling will be ineffective. Accordingly according to some embodiments when the AC compressor first turns on a timer is started. Fan cooling is prevented during the timer period and can only be operated after the timer has expired. It has been found that in many cases a timer period of 5 minutes is suitable for sufficient condensation to form. According to other embodiments other amounts of time either fixed or variable can be used or alternatively other information such as sensor data can be used to ensure sufficient condensation formation for fan cooling. During the period of timer the fan cooling state is awaiting timer. 

After the timer has expired at point the head unit is again woken up and a check is made on the indoor humidity level. It has been found that if the indoor humidity is too high then fan cooling generally does not increase occupant comfort level since fan cooling will tend to increase humidity so as to adversely affect comfort. According to some embodiments a humidity sensor is included in the thermostat and a determination is made at point whether to operate fan cooling based at least in part on the humidity. According to some embodiments a simple humidity threshold is used to determine if fan cooling should be allowed or prevented. It has been found that a threshold of between 45 60 relatively humidity is suitable for many situations and according to some embodiments a threshold of 45 is used. If the humidity check passes that is the measured relatively humidity is not above the threshold then the fan cooling state is changed to planned such that fan cooling will be activated if or when the current temperature falls to within a range in which it can be expected that fan cooling can be used to reach the LMBT. According to some embodiments alternatives to a simple humidity threshold can be used for example the check at point can include a combination of humidity and temperature according to some embodiments. Also note that it is possible for the conventional AC to drive the temperature below the LMBT within 5 minutes or whatever the timer period is meaning that fan cooling might not become active even if the humidity is low enough.

Fan cooling is activated when the current temperature falls to within a range in which it can be expected that the LMBT can be reached using fan cooling alone. In this range is denoted x F. where the term xdenotes the expected amount of temperature drop to be achieved using fan cooling. According to some embodiments the expected temperature drop xis based on data gathered during one or more previous cooling cycles at the enclosure. In the expected fan cooling temperature drop is plotted by line which reaches the LMBT at point . It has been found that the previous cooling cycle generally provides accurate data for the expected temperature drop. A default or initial value for a temperature drop is used and it has been found that 0.5 F. is a good initial value for many cases. Alternatively another initial value can be used such as 25 or 50 of the maintenance band. It has also been found that a small increment such as 0.1 F. can be added to the expected temperature drop such that fan cooling is started when the temperature drops to within x 0.1 F. above the LMBT. The small increment is added to allow fan cooling to be attempted in cases where due to prior cooling cycles the expected fan cooling temperature drop is set to zero. In point is reached when the current temperature reaches LMBT x 0.1 F. At this time the head unit is woken up by the backplate and fan cooling is started by turning off the AC compressor while leaving the fan motor turned on. According to some embodiments a maximum fan cooling range can also be implemented. It has been found that a maximum fan cooling range of 1 F. is suitable for many applications. In this case if the expected temperature drop is 0.95 F. based on a prior cooling cycle fan cooling will start when the current temperature is within 1 F. of the LMBT rather than 1.05 F. 0.95 0.1 above the LMBT.

According to some embodiments during fan cooling the backplate measures the temperature and wakes the head unit to cease fan cooling when either a the temperature rises above or falls below certain thresholds or b the duration of fan cooling exceeds a certain timeout. The zone in which fan cooling may be in effect is denoted by the shaded area in which is bounded by the upper temperature limit LMBT and an expiry time . The upper limit acts to prevent the fan operating when the temperature rises above the temperature at which fan cooling started indicating that fan cooling is no longer effective for the current cycle. It has been found the upper limit can be set to a small increment above the fan cooling starting temperature at point such as 0.1 F. Thus the upper limit in this case is equal to LMBT x 0.1 unless x 0.1 0.9 . The lower boundary temperature of zone is simply the LMBT . The time limit is based on the expected time denoted y to reach the expected temperature drop x or at point . According to some embodiments y the expected time to reach the expected temperature drop xfrom the start of fan cooling is based on data gathered during one or more previous cooling cycles at the enclosure. It has been found that the previous cooling cycle generally provides accurate data for the expected time y. According to some embodiments an additional buffer is added to the expected time yso that fan cooling is maintained if it takes longer than expected to reach the LMBT. In selecting the value for the buffer time or extension time it should be considered that fan operation is relatively inexpensive with power consumption well below 1 kilowatt compared to the AC compressor s power consumption of 3 5 kilowatts. Thus it has been found that the cost of additional fan cooling time is relatively small compared to the potential gain of inexpensive cooling. It has been found that a buffer time of 60 seconds to 2.5 minutes is suitable for many applications although according to other embodiments other fixed or variable values can be used. Thus in the embodiment of the time limit for fan cooling is y 60 seconds.

While many embodiments have been described wherein the expected values for temperature drop due to fan cooling and time to achieve the drop are based on the most recent prior cooling cycle other methods are envisaged. According to some embodiments for example the expected values can be based on an averaging of several e.g. 2 5 prior cooling cycles. According to other embodiments a weighted average can be used in which more recent cycles are more heavily favored. According to yet other embodiments prior cycles can be used and or weighted based on the similarity of conditions such as indoor and outdoor temperature humidity weather and solar radiation between that cycle and the current conditions. According to yet other embodiments data from other structures that are similar in environmental conditions and or thermodynamic behavior can be used in adjusting fan cooling operation. Communication and or calculations for such embodiments can be provided for example using cloud based thermostat management system via networks and as shown in .

Various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited to the above described embodiments but instead is defined by the appended claims in light of their full scope of equivalents.

