---

title: Video recommendation using affect
abstract: Analysis of mental states is provided to enable data analysis pertaining to video recommendation based on affect. Analysis and recommendation can be for socially shared livestream video. Video response may be evaluated based on viewing and sampling various videos. Data is captured for viewers of a video where the data includes facial information and/or physiological data. Facial and physiological information may be gathered for a group of viewers. In some embodiments, demographics information is collected and used as a criterion for visualization of affect responses to videos. In some embodiments, data captured from an individual viewer or group of viewers is used to rank videos.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503786&OS=09503786&RS=09503786
owner: Affectiva, Inc.
number: 09503786
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150810
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Video Recommendation Based on Affect Ser. No. 13 406 068 filed Feb. 27 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent applications Recommendation and Visualization of Affect Responses to Videos Ser. No. 61 447 089 filed Feb. 27 2011 Video Ranking Based on Affect Ser. No. 61 447 464 filed Feb. 28 2011 Baseline Face Analysis Ser. No. 61 467 209 filed Mar. 24 2011 Mental State Analysis of Voters Ser. No. 61 549 560 filed Oct. 20 2011 Mental State Evaluation Learning for Advertising Ser. No. 61 568 130 filed Dec. 7 2011 Affect Based Concept Testing Ser. No. 61 580 880 filed Dec. 28 2011 and Affect Based Evaluation of Advertisement Effectiveness Ser. No. 61 581 913 filed Dec. 30 2011. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Mental State Event Definition Generation Ser. No. 14 796 419 filed Jul. 10 2015 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent applications Mental State Event Definition Generation Ser. No. 62 023 800 filed Jul. 11 2014 Facial Tracking with Classifiers Ser. No. 62 047 508 filed Sep. 8 2014 Semiconductor Based Mental State Analysis Ser. No. 62 082 579 filed Nov. 20 2014 and Viewership Analysis Based On Facial Evaluation Ser. No. 62 128 974 filed Mar. 5 2015 Mental State Event Definition Generation Ser. No. 14 796 419 filed Jul. 10 2015 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Mental State Analysis Using Web Services Ser. No. 13 153 745 filed Jun. 6 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent applications Mental State Analysis Through Web Based Indexing Ser. No. 61 352 166 filed Jun. 7 2010 Measuring Affective Data for Web Enabled Applications Ser. No. 61 388 002 filed Sep. 30 2010 Sharing Affect Across a Social Network Ser. No. 61 414 451 filed Nov. 17 2010 Using Affect Within a Gaming Context Ser. No. 61 439 913 filed Feb. 6 2011 Recommendation and Visualization of Affect Responses to Videos Ser. No. 61 447 089 filed Feb. 27 2011 Video Ranking Based on Affect Ser. No. 61 447 464 filed Feb. 28 2011 and Baseline Face Analysis Ser. No. 61 467 209 filed Mar. 24 2011 and Mental State Event Definition Generation Ser. No. 14 796 419 filed Jul. 10 2015 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Mental State Analysis Using an Application Programming Interface Ser. No. 14 460 915 Aug. 15 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent applications Application Programming Interface for Mental State Analysis Ser. No. 61 867 007 filed Aug. 16 2013 Mental State Analysis Using an Application Programming Interface Ser. No. 61 924 252 filed Jan. 7 2014 Heart Rate Variability Evaluation for Mental State Analysis Ser. No. 61 916 190 filed Dec. 14 2013 Mental State Analysis for Norm Generation Ser. No. 61 927 481 filed Jan. 15 2014 Expression Analysis in Response to Mental State Express Request Ser. No. 61 953 878 filed Mar. 16 2014 Background Analysis of Mental State Expressions Ser. No. 61 972 314 filed Mar. 30 2014 and Mental State Event Definition Generation Ser. No. 62 023 800 filed Jul. 11 2014 and Mental State Analysis Using an Application Programming Interface Ser. No. 14 460 915 Aug. 15 2014 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Mental State Analysis Using Web Services Ser. No. 13 153 745 filed Jun. 6 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent applications Mental State Analysis Through Web Based Indexing Ser. No. 61 352 166 filed Jun. 7 2010 Measuring Affective Data for Web Enabled Applications Ser. No. 61 388 002 filed Sep. 30 2010 Sharing Affect Across a Social Network Ser. No. 61 414 451 filed Nov. 17 2010 Using Affect Within a Gaming Context Ser. No. 61 439 913 filed Feb. 6 2011 Recommendation and Visualization of Affect Responses to Videos Ser. No. 61 447 089 filed Feb. 27 2011 Video Ranking Based on Affect Ser. No. 61 447 464 filed Feb. 28 2011 and Baseline Face Analysis Ser. No. 61 467 209 filed Mar. 24 2011. Each of the foregoing applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application relates generally to analysis of mental states and more particularly to making video recommendations based on affect.

People spend a tremendous amount of time engaged in viewing and interacting with videos. The videos may be watched in numerous contexts including education entertainment obtaining daily news watching the latest movies and many others. A video may be a movie a television show a web series a webisode a video a music video or a video clip. The video may be viewed as a stand alone element on an electronic display or may be part of a webpage. Evaluation of these videos and people s responses to them is exceedingly important to gauging the effectiveness of education commerce and entertainment. People can self rate videos in a tedious fashion of entering a specific number of stars corresponding to a level of like or dislike or may even answer a list of questions. It is even more tedious and difficult to evaluate portions of videos where evaluation of a brief period of time from a video may be useful. Recommendations based on such a star rating are imprecise subjective and often unreliable.

A computer implemented method is disclosed for affect based recommendations comprising playing a first media presentation to an individual capturing mental state data for the individual while the first media presentation is played and recommending a second media presentation to the individual based on the mental state data for the individual which was captured. The method may further comprise analyzing the mental state data to produce mental state information. The method may further comprise correlating the mental state data which was captured for the individual to mental state data collected from other people who experienced the first media presentation. The recommending the second media presentation to the individual may be further based on the correlating between the individual and the other people. The first media presentation may include one of a group consisting of a movie a television show a web series a webisode a video a video clip an electronic game an e book and an e magazine. The second media presentation may include one of a group consisting of a movie a television show a web series a webisode a video a video clip an electronic game an e book and an e magazine. The first media presentation may be played on a web enabled interface. The first media presentation may include one of a YouTube a Vimeo video and a Netflix video. The second media presentation may include one of a YouTube a Vimeo video and a Netflix video. The method may further comprise ranking the first media presentation relative to another media presentation based on the mental state data which was captured. The ranking may be for the individual based on the mental state data from the individual. The ranking may be based on anticipated preferences for the individual.

The mental state data may be captured from multiple people and further comprising aggregating the mental state data from the multiple people. The method may further comprise ranking the first media presentation relative to another media presentation based on the mental state data which was aggregated from the multiple people. The mental state data may include one of a group consisting of physiological data facial data and actigraphy data. The facial data may include information on one or more of a group consisting of facial expressions action units head gestures smiles brow furrows squints lowered eyebrows raised eyebrows smirks and attention. The physiological data may include one or more of electrodermal activity heart rate heart rate variability skin temperature and respiration. The method may further comprise inferring of mental states based on the mental state data which was collected. The mental states may include one of a group consisting of frustration confusion disappointment hesitation cognitive overload focusing being engaged attending boredom exploration confidence trust delight valence skepticism and satisfaction. The playing of the first media presentation may be done on a mobile device and further comprising recording of facial images with the mobile device as part of the capturing of the mental state data.

In embodiments a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium may comprise code for playing a first media presentation to an individual code for capturing mental state data for the individual while the first media presentation is played and code for recommending a second media presentation to the individual based on the mental state data for the individual which was captured. In some embodiments a computer system for affect based recommendations may comprise a memory for storing instructions one or more processors attached to the memory wherein the one or more processors are configured to play a first media presentation to an individual capture mental state data for the individual while the first media presentation is played and recommend a second media presentation to the individual based on the mental state data for the individual which was captured.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method for affect based ranking may comprise displaying a plurality of media presentations to a group of people capturing mental state data from the group of people while the plurality of media presentations is displayed correlating the mental state data captured from the group of people who viewed the plurality of media presentations and ranking the media presentations relative to one another based on the mental state data. The method may further comprise tagging the plurality of media presentations with mental state information based on the mental state data which was captured.

Various features aspects and advantages of numerous embodiments will become more apparent from the following description.

The present disclosure provides a description of various methods and systems for analyzing people s mental states as they view videos. The ability to properly evaluate people s response to videos enables accurate recommendation of other videos. These videos can be for any purpose including but not limited to entertainment education or general information. Evaluation of mental states in response to videos provides unmatched insight into people s true reactions to these videos. A mental state may be an emotional state or a cognitive state. Examples of emotional states include happiness or sadness. Examples of cognitive states include concentration or confusion. Observing capturing and analyzing these mental states can yield significant information about people s reactions to a videos. Some terms commonly used in evaluation of mental states are arousal and or valence. Arousal is an indication on the amount of activation or excitement of a person. Valence is an indication on whether a person is positively or negatively disposed. Affect may include analysis of arousal and valence. Affect may also include facial analysis for expressions such as smiles or brow furrowing. Analysis may be as simple as tracking when someone smiles or when someone frowns while viewing a video. Recommendations for other videos may in some embodiments be made based on tracking when someone smiles while watching one or more videos and recommending videos with similarities to those which made the individual smile.

The flow continues with distributing the web enabled interface . The distributing of the web enabled interface may include sending a URL. The sending of the URL may be accomplished using one of a group consisting of an email a text message a Facebook posting a Twitter message a Google posting a LinkedIn posting a social network update and a blog entry. In some embodiments the sending may be accomplished by pressing or selecting a button on a web page associated with a video. Selecting the button may distribute the video. In some embodiments selecting the button may also distribute mental state data or analysis of mental state data along with the video. The flow may further comprise playing of the video perhaps in the web enabled interface and collecting the mental state data while the video is being played. The mental state data may be collected for a group of people who view the video.

The mental state data collected may include one of a group consisting of physiological data facial data and actigraphy data. The physiological data may include one or more of electrodermal activity heart rate heart rate variability skin temperature and respiration. The facial data may include information on one or more of a group consisting of facial expressions action units head gestures smiles brow furrows squints lowered eyebrows attention and the like. The mental states that may be inferred may include one of a group consisting of frustration confusion disappointment hesitation cognitive overload focusing being engaged attending boredom exploration confidence trust delight frustration valence skepticism and so on. The mental state data may be collected for an individual. Likewise the mental state data may be captured from multiple people.

The flow may continue with analyzing mental state data . The mental state data may be analyzed to produce mental state information. Mental states for a viewer or a plurality of viewers may be inferred based on the mental state data which was collected.

The flow may continue with aggregating mental state data . Mental state data may be collected from multiple people who view a video and the mental state data from the multiple people may be aggregated. Thus the mental state data is aggregated across a group of people. Results from the aggregating may be presented as part of the displaying of a graphical representation.

The flow may further comprise recommending a media presentation . The aggregating of the mental state data may be used as part of the input to result in recommending a media presentation to an individual based on the mental state data which was aggregated. The media presentation may be one of a group consisting of a movie a television show a web series a webisode a video a video clip an electronic game an advertisement an e book and an e magazine. The flow may further comprise recommending a media presentation to a second person based on the mental state data collected from a first person. Various steps in the flow may be changed in order repeated omitted or the like without departing from the disclosed inventive concepts. Various embodiments of the flow may be included in a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that includes code executable by one or more processors. The flow may include tagging the plurality of media presentations with mental state information based on the mental state data which was captured.

The electronic display may show a video. The video may be shown on any electronic display including but not limited to a computer display a laptop screen a net book screen a tablet computer screen a cell phone display a mobile device display a remote with a display a television a projector or the like. The electronic display may include connections to a keyboard mouse joystick touchpad wand motion sensor and other input means. The video may be displayed within a webpage a website a web enabled application or the like. The images of the person may be captured by a video capture unit . In some embodiments video of the person is captured while in others a series of still images are captured.

Analysis of action units gestures mental states and physiological data may be accomplished using the captured images of the person . The action units may be used to identify smiles frowns and other facial indicators of mental states. The gestures including head gestures may indicate interest or curiosity. For example a head gesture of moving toward the video may indicate increased interest or a desire for clarification. Based on the captured images analysis of physiology may be performed. Analysis of affect may be performed based on the information and images which are captured. The analysis can include facial analysis and analysis of head gestures. The analysis can include evaluating physiology and may include evaluating one of a group consisting of heart rate heart rate variability respiration perspiration temperature and other bodily evaluation.

An affect analyzer may analyze the affect data collected from the person . The affect analyzer may recognize mental states including information on concentration liking disliking etc. The affect analyzer may recognize smiles or frowns. Based on the analysis done by the affect analyzer a recommendation engine may recommend a video or other media presentation to the person . The recommending of a media presentation to an individual may be based on the mental state data which was aggregated. The aggregated data may be for multiple videos by an individual or may be for a plurality of people. The recommendation may be based on common factors with one or more videos which the person watched. For example if the person smiled for each of the videos that he or she watched with a specific actress as the main character then the recommendation engine may recommend another video with the same actress to the person . In another example if a series of sports videos is liked by the person then another sports video may be recommended.

Other people may view the same video as the person . In some embodiments multiple videos are viewed by the person and the other people . In embodiments different subsets of the multiple videos are viewed by each person. The affect collector may capture affect data for each of the people . The affect collector may be a single unit such as a kiosk in a mall or a device which collects affect for multiple people viewing a video in such a location as a conference room or a movie theater. Alternatively the affect collector may be separate devices such as in the case where each person has their own computer laptop cell phone mobile device or the like. The affect repository may retain affect data from the people on whom affect data is collected.

An affect aggregator may take affect data from the affect repository and correlate affect data from the person with the other people . The affect aggregator may recognize trends for the person who has watched multiple videos or for example movies. The affect aggregator may determine correlation vectors for the person and the people or a subset thereof. A correlation may be made using weighted Euclidean or Mahalanobis distance evaluation between two vectors where a vector includes an individual s affect data. There are many ways to compute distances or similarity dissimilarity measures. Collaborative filtering or the like may be used to aid in matching affect data between or among people. In some embodiments a comparison is made based on the same content viewed by the person and by individuals from the other people . When one vector is at a sufficiently small distance from another person s vector then the affect aggregator will look for other content that has been liked or smiled at. This other content may be recommended by the recommendation engine to the person because there are assumed similarities based on the affect data which was collected.

In some embodiments the affect aggregator and affect analyzer may be used to review affect data stored in the affect repository to compare affect data collected on a new video with an historical database of affect data for videos. The new video may be evaluated to determine how this video ranks against other videos. For example the new video could be compared with a top 100 list of videos to determine the relative number of smiles that the new video has relative to the top 100 list of videos for which people smiled. In embodiments a group of people can view a new video and have affect data collected. The affect data collected for the people could be aggregated together. The aggregated affect data for the new video could then be compared to the aggregated affect data for other videos. This type of comparison could be used by developers of videos to rank and evaluate a new video which has been produced. Likewise a buyer of advertising spots for example could evaluate a new video based on aggregated affect data collected from a group of people. For certain purposes an emotion profile could be generated and then compared with a best of breed set of videos by network studios advertisers or others with similar commercial interest.

In some cases there may be good correlation for one type of video but not another. For instance a good correlation may be made for drama videos but a poor one for comedy video. Based on that information a recommendation may be made for another drama video. Collaborative filtering may be performed to identify good possibilities for correlation and therefore areas where videos may be recommended.

The recommendation engine may make recommendations to the person on whom affect was collected. The recommendation engine may make these recommendations based on the correlation between the person and the other people . Likewise the recommendation engine may make recommendations to one or more of the people based on a video that was viewed by the person .

The capturing mental state data may further comprise recording facial images . The flow may further comprise analyzing the facial images for a facial expression . The facial data may include information on one or more of a group consisting of facial expressions action units head gestures smiles brow furrows squints lowered eyebrows raised eyebrows smirks attention and the like. The facial expressions may be used to generate facial thumbnails . In some embodiments representative low resolution images may be included in the thumbnails rather than images obtained directly from a webcam or other imaging apparatus.

The flow may continue with generating a set of thumbnails for the video which was played where the thumbnails comprise scenes from the video and the set of thumbnails may be generated automatically. The flow may further comprise analyzing the set of thumbnails and removing a frame from the set of thumbnails based on a dark threshold. Another frame may be used in place of the frame that was removed. The flow may continue with displaying the set of thumbnails on a second web enabled interface. The second web enabled interface may include a web page. In embodiments the thumbnails will be for the video which was played.

In embodiments an individual thumbnail is one scene from the video and is a static image of a specified size. Various items can be useful in the generation of thumbnails and are briefly discussed here. A composite of thumbnails or zoetrope is a horizontal array of images. A dark threshold is used to analyze a mean value of the color of an image to determine whether it is dark. A starting offset is a number of seconds into the video to begin the thumbnail generation process. A number of seconds between frames can be automatically generated or specified manually and refers to the number of seconds between the individual thumbnail images. A zoetrope width is the width of the final image and may be slightly different from the width of an individual thumbnail multiplied by the number of thumbnails. A size string may be of the form width times height and examples include 24 24 32 32 40 32 etc. The size string determines the dimensions of the individual thumbnail. The individual thumbnails may be examined to determine if the image is too dark. Some movie trailers frequently fade to black. Black or very dark frames often make for poor thumbnails. A recursive look forward and backward to find a better frame is possible. If a frame is too dark then the recursive algorithm looks behind and forward by small amounts to see if it can find a better frame that can be found within certain recursion limits. Once a good image is found or a recursion limit is reached the video is advanced by the appropriate number of seconds between frames to identify the next thumbnail image.

In some embodiments the flow may further comprise generating a set of thumbnails for the facial images which were recorded and displaying the set of thumbnails for the facial images on the second web enabled interface. One thumbnail from the set of thumbnails may be selected based on a facial expression. The one thumbnail may show an animated facial expression. The one thumbnail may show an unusual facial expression. The one thumbnail may show a typical facial expression.

The flow may continue with generating a graphical representation of the mental state data which was captured. The graphical representation may be a line graph showing an amount of a specific mental state or an amount of a specific facial expression. Likewise the graphical representation may be a more complex dashboard type presentation. The flow may continue with displaying the graphical representation on the second web enabled interface. The graphical representation may include a score representing the mental state data. The score may be for a specific mental state such as attention frustration disappointment or any other mental state. The score may provide a numerical representation of the mental state.

In some embodiments the playing of the video is done on a mobile device and the recording of the facial images is done with the mobile device. In embodiments the mental state data is captured from multiple people and aggregated. Various steps in the flow may be changed in order repeated omitted or the like without departing from the disclosed inventive concepts. Various embodiments of the flow may be included in a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that includes code executable by one or more processors.

Some embodiments may include the ability for a user to select a particular type of mental state information for display using various buttons or other selection methods. The mental state information may be based on one or more descriptors. The one or more descriptors may include but are not limited to one of action unit 4 AU4 action unit 12 AU12 and valence. By way of example in the window the smile mental state information is shown as the user may have previously selected the Smile button . Other types of mental state information that may be available for user selection in various embodiments may include the Lowered Eyebrows button Eyebrow Raise button Attention button Valence Score button or other types of mental state information depending on the embodiment. An Overview button may be available to allow a user to show graphs of the multiple types of mental state information simultaneously. The mental state information may include probability information for one or more descriptors and the probabilities for the one of the one or more descriptors may vary for portions of the video rendering.

Because the Smile option has been selected in the example shown smile graph may be shown against a baseline showing the aggregated smile mental state information of the plurality of individuals from whom mental state data was collected for the video. The male smile graph and the female smile graph may be shown so that the visual representation displays the aggregated mental state information. These graphs are provided by way of example only. The mental state information may be based on a demographic basis as those viewers who comprise that demographic react to the video. The various demographic based graphs may be indicated using various line types as shown or may be indicated using color or other method of differentiation. A slider may allow a user to select a particular time of the timeline and show the value of the chosen mental state for that particular time. The video may be coordinated with the slider . The slider may be selected and moved with a mouse or other pointing device in some embodiments. The video may jump to the point in time to which the slider has been moved. The mental states can be used to evaluate the value of the video.

Various types of demographic based mental state information may be selected using the demographic button in some embodiments. Such demographics may include gender age race income level education or any other type of demographic including dividing the respondents into those respondents that had higher reactions from those with lower reactions. A graph legend may be displayed indicating the various demographic groups the line type or color for each group the percentage of total respondents and or absolute number of respondents for each group and or other information about the demographic groups. The mental state information may be aggregated according to the demographic type selected. Thus aggregation of the mental state information is performed on a demographic basis so that mental state information is grouped based on the demographic basis for some embodiments. The video thus may be evaluated for responses by various demographic groups.

In some embodiments graphical smiley face icons and may be shown providing an indication of the amount of a smile or other facial expression. A first very broad smiley face icon may indicate a very large smile being observed. A second normal smiley face icon may indicate a smile being observed. A third face icon may indicate no smile. The icons may correspond to a region on the y axis that indicate the probability or intensity of a smile.

A set of facial thumbnail images related to the selected graph or graphs that in the example shown include Facial Thumbnail Facial Thumbnail through Facial Thumbnail N may be shown above or below the graph and may be displayed with a timeline or other parameter along the x axis . The thumbnails may show a graphic storyboard of the facial rendering. This storyboard may assist a user in identifying a particular scene or location within the facial rendering. Some embodiments may not include thumbnails or may have a single thumbnail associated with the facial rendering while various embodiments may have thumbnails of equal length while others may have thumbnails of differing lengths. In some embodiments the start and or end of the thumbnails may be determined based on changes in the captured viewer mental states associated with the rendering or may be based on particular points of interest in the video rendering. Thumbnails of one or more viewers may be shown along a timeline or other parameter . The thumbnails of viewers may include peak expressions expressions at key points in the video rendering key points in the graphs etc.

A set of video thumbnail images comprising scenes from the video for the selected graph or graphs that in the example shown include Video Thumbnail Video Thumbnail through Video Thumbnail N may be shown above or below the graph and may be displayed with a timeline or other parameter along the x axis . The thumbnails may show a graphic storyboard of the video rendering. This storyboard may assist a user in identifying a particular scene or location within the video rendering. Some embodiments may not include thumbnails or may have a single thumbnail associated with the rendering while various embodiments may have thumbnails of equal length while others may have thumbnails of differing lengths. In some embodiments the start and or end of the thumbnails may be determined based on changes in the captured viewer mental states associated with the rendering or may be based on particular points of interest in the video rendering.

The flow may continue with correlating the mental state data which was captured for the individual to mental state data collected from other people who experienced the first media presentation. The correlating may include identifying similar likes and dislikes as well as similar various other mental states. In some embodiments distributions of responses to various videos may be correlated. In other embodiments differences may be correlated such as for example identifying maximally dissimilar responses. In some embodiments certain mental states may be identified as being similar while others are identified as being dissimilar during part of the correlation. The flow may include optimizing the media presentation based on the mental state data. The optimizing may include modifying content or recommending changes in content such as eliminating scenes reducing certain material or emphasizing certain actors. In embodiments the media presentation includes a mixture of advertising and content. The optimizing may select one or more advertisements to be interspersed with the content. The optimizing may include ordering one or more advertisements to be interspersed with the content. The optimizing may include selecting times within the content for playing the one or more advertisements. The optimizing may include identifying portions of an advertisement that are removed to form a shortened advertisement.

The flow may include recommending a second media presentation to the individual based on the mental state data which was captured for the individual. The recommending the second media presentation to the individual may be based on the correlating between the individual and the other people. The second media presentation may be one of a group consisting of a movie a television show a web series a webisode a video a video clip an electronic game an e book and an e magazine and the like. The second media presentation may include a YouTube video a Vimeo video or a Netflix video.

The flow may further comprise generating a set of thumbnails for the first media presentation which was played and displaying the set of thumbnails on a second web enabled interface or digital display along with an analysis of the mental state data from the individual . The set of thumbnails may comprise scenes from the first media presentation. The selection of the thumbnail from the set of thumbnails may be based on facial expression. The set of thumbnails may be generated automatically and may include removing a frame from the set of thumbnails based on a dark threshold. Another frame may be used in place of the frame that was removed. The flow may further comprise displaying an analysis of the mental state data from the other people . Various steps in the flow may be changed in order repeated omitted or the like without departing from the disclosed inventive concepts. Various embodiments of the flow may be included in a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that includes code executable by one or more processors.

The flow may include correlating the mental state data captured from the group of people who have viewed the plurality of media presentations and had their mental state data captured. The plurality of videos viewed by the group of people may have some common videos seen by each of the people in the group of people. In some embodiments the plurality of videos may not include an identical set of videos. The flow may continue with tagging the plurality of media presentations with mental state information based on the mental state data which was captured. The affect information may simply be the affect data. In other embodiments the affect information may be the inferred mental states. In still other embodiments the affect information may be results of the correlation. The flow may continue with ranking the media presentations relative to another media presentation based on the mental state data which was collected. The ranking may be for an individual based on the mental state data captured from the individual. The ranking may be based on anticipated preferences for the individual. In some embodiments the ranking of a first media presentation relative to another media presentation may be based on the mental state data which was aggregated from multiple people. The ranking may also be relative to media presentations previously stored with affect information. The ranking may include ranking a video relative to another video based on the mental state data which was captured. The flow may further comprise displaying the videos which elicit a certain affect . The certain affect may include one of a group consisting of smiles engagement attention interest sadness liking disliking and so on. The ranking may further comprise displaying the videos which elicited a larger number of smiles. As a result of ranking the media presentations may be sorted based on which are funniest saddest generate the most tears or engender some other response. The flow may further comprise searching through the videos based on a certain affect data . A search may identify videos which are very engaging funny sad poignant or the like.

The flow may include recommending a second media presentation to an individual based on the affect data that was captured and based on the ranking. The second media presentation may be one of a group consisting of a movie a movie trailer a television show a web series a webisode a video a video clip an advertisement a music video an electronic game an e book and an e magazine.

Based on the mental states recommendations to or from an individual may be provided. One or more recommendations may be made to the individual based on mental states affect or facial expressions. A correlation may be made between one individual and others with similar affect exhibited during multiple videos. The correlation may include a record of other videos games or other experiences along with their affect. Likewise a recommendation for a movie video video clip webisode or other activity may be made to individual based on their affect. Various steps in the flow may be changed in order repeated omitted or the like without departing from the disclosed inventive concepts. Various embodiments of the flow may be included in a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that includes code executable by one or more processors.

The human face provides a powerful communications medium through its ability to exhibit a myriad of expressions that can be captured and analyzed for a variety of purposes. In some cases media producers are acutely interested in evaluating the effectiveness of message delivery by video media. Such video media includes advertisements political messages educational materials television programs movies government service announcements etc. Automated facial analysis can be performed on one or more video frames containing a face in order to detect facial action. Based on the facial action detected a variety of parameters can be determined including affect valence spontaneous reactions facial action units and so on. The parameters that are determined can be used to infer or predict emotional and mental states. For example determined valence can be used to describe the emotional reaction of a viewer to a video media presentation or another type of presentation. Positive valence provides evidence that a viewer is experiencing a favorable emotional response to the video media presentation while negative valence provides evidence that a viewer is experiencing an unfavorable emotional response to the video media presentation. Other facial data analysis can include the determination of discrete emotional states of the viewer or viewers.

Facial data can be collected from a plurality of people using any of a variety of cameras. A camera can include a webcam a video camera a still camera a thermal imager a CCD device a phone camera a three dimensional camera a depth camera a light field camera multiple webcams used to show different views of a person or any other type of image capture apparatus that can allow captured data to be used in an electronic system. In some embodiments the person is permitted to opt in to the facial data collection. For example the person can agree to the capture of facial data using a personal device such as a mobile device or another electronic device by selecting an opt in choice. Opting in can then turn on the person s webcam enabled device and can begin the capture of the person s facial data via a video feed from the webcam or other camera. The video data that is collected can include one or more persons experiencing an event. The one or more persons can be sharing a personal electronic device or can each be using one or more devices for video capture. The videos that are collected can be collected using a web based framework. The web based framework can be used to display the video media presentation or event as well as to collect videos from any number of viewers who are online. That is the collection of videos can be crowdsourced from those viewers who elected to opt in to the video data collection.

In some embodiments a high frame rate camera may be used. A high frame rate camera has a frame rate of 60 frames per second or higher. With such a frame rate micro expressions may also be captured. Micro expressions are very brief facial expressions lasting only a fraction of a second. They occur when a person either deliberately or unconsciously conceals a feeling.

In some cases micro expressions happen when people have hidden their feelings from themselves repression or when they deliberately try to conceal their feelings from others. In some cases the micro expressions may only last about 50 milliseconds. Hence these expressions may go unnoticed by a human observer. However a high frame rate camera may be used to capture footage at a sufficient frame rate such that the footage can be analyzed for the presence of micro expressions. Micro expressions may be analyzed via action units as previously described with various attributes such as brow raising brow furls eyelid raising and the like. Thus embodiments may analyze micro expressions that are easily missed by human observers due to their transient nature.

The videos captured from the various viewers who chose to opt in can be substantially different in terms of video quality frame rate etc. As a result the facial video data can be scaled rotated and otherwise adjusted to improve consistency. Human factors further play into the capture of the facial video data. The facial data that is captured might or might not be relevant to the video media presentation being displayed. For example the viewer might not be paying attention might be fidgeting might be distracted by an object or event near the viewer or otherwise inattentive to the video media presentation. The behavior exhibited by the viewer can prove challenging to analyze due to viewer actions including eating speaking to another person or persons speaking on the phone etc. The videos collected from the viewers might also include other artifacts that pose challenges during the analysis of the video data. The artifacts can include such items as eyeglasses because of reflections eye patches jewelry and clothing that occludes or obscures the viewer s face. Similarly a viewer s hair or hair covering can present artifacts by obscuring the viewer s eyes and or face.

The captured facial data can be analyzed using the facial action coding system FACS . The FACS seeks to define groups or taxonomies of facial movements of the human face. The FACS encodes movements of individual muscles of the face where the muscle movements often include slight instantaneous changes in facial appearance. The FACS encoding is commonly performed by trained observers but can also be performed on automated computer based systems. Analysis of the FACS encoding can be used to determine emotions of the persons whose facial data is captured in the videos. The FACS is used to encode a wide range of facial expressions that are anatomically possible for the human face. The FACS encodings include action units AUs and related temporal segments that are based on the captured facial expression. The AUs are open to higher order interpretation and decision making. For example the AUs can be used to recognize emotions experienced by the observed person. Emotion related facial actions can be identified using the emotional facial action coding system EMFACS and the facial action coding system affect interpretation dictionary FACSAID for example. For a given emotion specific action units can be related to the emotion. For example the emotion of anger can be related to AUs 4 5 7 and 23 while happiness can be related to AUs 6 and 12. Other mappings of emotions to AUs have also been previously associated. The coding of the AUs can include an intensity scoring that ranges from A trace to E maximum . The AUs can be used for analyzing images to identify patterns indicative of a particular mental and or emotional state. The AUs range in number from 0 neutral face to 98 fast up down look . The AUs include so called main codes inner brow raiser lid tightener etc. head movement codes head turn left head up etc. eye movement codes eyes turned left eyes up etc. visibility codes eyes not visible entire face not visible etc. and gross behavior codes sniff swallow etc. . Emotion scoring can be included where intensity is evaluated as well as specific emotions moods or mental states.

The coding of faces identified in videos captured of people observing an event can be automated. The automated systems can detect facial AUs or discrete emotional states. The emotional states can include amusement fear anger disgust surprise and sadness for example. The automated systems can be based on a probability estimate from one or more classifiers where the probabilities can correlate with an intensity of an AU or an expression. The classifiers can be used to identify into which of a set of categories a given observation can be placed. For example the classifiers can be used to determine a probability that a given AU or expression is present in a given frame of a video. The classifiers can be used as part of a supervised machine learning technique where the machine learning technique can be trained using known good data. Once trained the machine learning technique can proceed to classify new data that is captured.

The supervised machine learning models can be based on support vector machines SVMs . An SVM can have an associated learning model that is used for data analysis and pattern analysis. For example an SVM can be used to classify data that can be obtained from collected videos of people experiencing a media presentation. An SVM can be trained using known good data that is labeled as belonging to one of two categories e.g. smile and no smile . The SVM can build a model that assigns new data into one of the two categories. The SVM can construct one or more hyperplanes that can be used for classification. The hyperplane that has the largest distance from the nearest training point can be determined to have the best separation. The largest separation can improve the classification technique by increasing the probability that a given data point can be properly classified.

In another example a histogram of oriented gradients HoG can be computed. The HoG can include feature descriptors and can be computed for one or more facial regions of interest. The regions of interest of the face can be located using facial landmark points where the facial landmark points can include outer edges of nostrils outer edges of the mouth outer edges of eyes etc. A HoG for a given region of interest can count occurrences of gradient orientation within a given section of a frame from a video for example. The gradients can be intensity gradients and can be used to describe an appearance and a shape of a local object. The HoG descriptors can be determined by dividing an image into small connected regions also called cells. A histogram of gradient directions or edge orientations can be computed for pixels in the cell. Histograms can be contrast normalized based on intensity across a portion of the image or the entire image thus reducing any influence from illumination or shadowing changes between and among video frames. The HoG can be computed on the image or on an adjusted version of the image where the adjustment of the image can include scaling rotation etc. For example the image can be adjusted by flipping the image around a vertical line through the middle of a face in the image. The symmetry plane of the image can be determined from the tracker points and landmarks of the image.

In an embodiment an automated facial analysis system identifies five facial actions or action combinations in order to detect spontaneous facial expressions for media research purposes. Based on the facial expressions that are detected a determination can be made with regard to the effectiveness of a given video media presentation for example. The system can detect the presence of the AUs or the combination of AUs in videos collected from a plurality of people. The facial analysis technique can be trained using a web based framework to crowdsource videos of people as they watch online video content. The video can be streamed at a fixed frame rate to a server. Human labelers can code for the presence or absence of facial actions including symmetric smile unilateral smile asymmetric smile and so on. The trained system can then be used to automatically code the facial data collected from a plurality of viewers experiencing video presentations e.g. television programs .

Spontaneous asymmetric smiles can be detected in order to understand viewer experiences. Related literature indicates that as many asymmetric smiles occur on the right hemi face as do on the left hemi face for spontaneous expressions. Detection can be treated as a binary classification problem where images that contain a right asymmetric expression are used as positive target class samples and all other images as negative non target class samples. Classifiers perform the classification including classifiers such as support vector machines SVM and random forests. Random forests can include ensemble learning methods that use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance. Frame by frame detection can be performed to recognize the presence of an asymmetric expression in each frame of a video. Facial points can be detected including the top of the mouth and the two outer eye corners. The face can be extracted cropped and warped into a pixel image of specific dimension e.g. 96 96 pixels . In embodiments the inter ocular distance and vertical scale in the pixel image are fixed. Feature extraction can be performed using computer vision software such as OpenCV . Feature extraction can be based on the use of HoGs. HoGs can include feature descriptors and can be used to count occurrences of gradient orientation in localized portions or regions of the image. Other techniques can be used for counting occurrences of gradient orientation including edge orientation histograms scale invariant feature transformation descriptors etc. The AU recognition tasks can also be performed using Local Binary Patterns LBP and Local Gabor Binary Patterns LGBP . The HoG descriptor represents the face as a distribution of intensity gradients and edge directions and is robust in its ability to translate and scale. Differing patterns including groupings of cells of various sizes and arranged in variously sized cell blocks can be used. For example 4 4 cell blocks of 8 8 pixel cells with an overlap of half of the block can be used. Histograms of channels can be used including nine channels or bins evenly spread over 0 180 degrees. In this example the HoG descriptor on a 96 96 image is 25 blocks 16 cells 9 bins 3600 the latter quantity representing the dimension. AU occurrences can be rendered. The videos can be grouped into demographic datasets based on nationality and or other demographic parameters for further detailed analysis.

The flow begins by obtaining training image samples . The image samples can include a plurality of images of one or more people. Human coders who are trained to correctly identify AU codes based on the FACS can code the images. The training or known good images can be used as a basis for training a machine learning technique. Once trained the machine learning technique can be used to identify AUs in other images that can be collected using a camera such as the camera from for example. The flow continues with receiving an image . The image can be received from the camera . As discussed above the camera or cameras can include a webcam where a webcam can include a video camera a still camera a thermal imager a CCD device a phone camera a three dimensional camera a depth camera a light field camera multiple webcams used to show different views of a person or any other type of image capture apparatus that can allow captured data to be used in an electronic system. The image that is received can be manipulated in order to improve the processing of the image. For example the image can be cropped scaled stretched rotated flipped etc. in order to obtain a resulting image that can be analyzed more efficiently. Multiple versions of the same image can be analyzed. For example the manipulated image and a flipped or mirrored version of the manipulated image can be analyzed alone and or in combination to improve analysis. The flow continues with generating histograms for the training images and the one or more versions of the received image. The histograms can be generated for one or more versions of the manipulated received image. The histograms can be based on a HoG or another histogram. As described above the HoG can include feature descriptors and can be computed for one or more regions of interest in the training images and the one or more received images. The regions of interest in the images can be located using facial landmark points where the facial landmark points can include outer edges of nostrils outer edges of the mouth outer edges of eyes etc. A HoG for a given region of interest can count occurrences of gradient orientation within a given section of a frame from a video for example.

The flow continues with applying classifiers to the histograms. The classifiers can be used to estimate probabilities where the probabilities can correlate with an intensity of an AU or an expression. The choice of classifiers used is based on the training of a supervised learning technique to identify facial expressions in some embodiments. The classifiers can be used to identify into which of a set of categories a given observation can be placed. For example the classifiers can be used to determine a probability that a given AU or expression is present in a given image or frame of a video. In various embodiments the one or more AUs that are present include AU01 inner brow raiser AU12 lip corner puller AU38 nostril dilator and so on. In practice the presence or absence of any number of AUs can be determined. The flow continues with computing a frame score . The score computed for an image where the image can be a frame from a video can be used to determine the presence of a facial expression in the image or video frame. The score can be based on one or more versions of the image or manipulated image. For example the score can be based on a comparison of the manipulated image to a flipped or mirrored version of the manipulated image. The score can be used to predict a likelihood that one or more facial expressions are present in the image. The likelihood can be based on computing a difference between the outputs of a classifier used on the manipulated image and on the flipped or mirrored image for example. The classifier that is used can be used to identify symmetrical facial expressions e.g. smile asymmetrical facial expressions e.g. outer brow raiser and so on.

The flow continues with plotting results . The results that are plotted can include one or more scores for one or frames computed over a given time t. For example the plotted results can include classifier probability results from analysis of HoGs for a sequence of images and video frames. The plotted results can be matched with a template . The template can be temporal and can be represented by a centered box function or another function. A best fit with one or more templates can be found by computing a minimum error. Other best fit techniques can include polynomial curve fitting geometric curve fitting and so on. The flow continues with applying a label . The label can be used to indicate that a particular facial expression has been detected in the one or more images or video frames which constitute the image . For example the label can be used to indicate that any of a range of facial expressions has been detected including a smile an asymmetric smile a frown and so on. Various steps in the flow may be changed in order repeated omitted or the like without departing from the disclosed concepts. Various embodiments of the flow may be included in a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that includes code executable by one or more processors.

The flow continues with characterizing cluster profiles . The profiles can include a variety of facial expressions such as smiles asymmetric smiles eyebrow raisers eyebrow lowerers etc. The profiles can be related to a given event. For example a humorous video can be displayed in the web based framework and the video data of people who have opted in can be collected. The characterization of the collected and analyzed video can depend in part on the number of smiles that occurred at various points throughout the humorous video. Similarly the characterization can be performed on collected and analyzed videos of people viewing a news presentation. The characterized cluster profiles can be further analyzed based on demographic data. For example the number of smiles resulting from people viewing a humorous video can be compared to various demographic groups where the groups can be formed based on geographic location age ethnicity gender and so on. Various steps in the flow may be changed in order repeated omitted or the like without departing from the disclosed concepts. Various embodiments of the flow may be included in a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that includes code executable by one or more processors.

Cluster profiles can be generated based on the clusters that can be formed from unsupervised clustering with time shown on the x axis and intensity or frequency shown on the y axis. The cluster profiles can be based on captured facial data including facial expressions for example. The cluster profile can be based on the cluster the cluster profile can be based on the cluster and the cluster profile can be based on the cluster . The cluster profiles and can be based on smiles smirks frowns or any other facial expression. Emotional states of the people who have opted in to video collection can be inferred by analyzing the clustered facial expression data. The cluster profiles can be plotted with respect to time and can show a rate of onset a duration and an offset rate of decay . Other time related factors can be included in the cluster profiles. The cluster profiles can be correlated with demographic information as described above.

Several live streaming social media apps and platforms can be used for transmitting video. One such video social media app is Meerkat that can link with a user s Twitter account. Meerkat enables a user to stream video using a handheld networked electronic device coupled to video capabilities. Viewers of the live stream can comment on the stream using tweets that can be seen by and responded to by the broadcaster. Another popular app is Periscope that can transmit a live recording from one user to that user s Periscope or other social media followers. The Periscope app can be executed on a mobile device. The user s followers can receive an alert whenever that user begins a video transmission. Another live stream video platform is Twitch which can be used for video streaming of video gaming and broadcasts of various competitions concerts and other events.

The example shows user broadcasting a video live stream to one or more people and so on. A portable network enabled electronic device can be coupled to a camera that is forward facing or front facing. The portable electronic device can be a smartphone a PDA a tablet a laptop computer and so on. The camera coupled to the device can be a line of sight view to the user and can capture video of the user . The captured video can be sent to a recommendation engine using a network link to the Internet . The network link can be a wireless link a wired link and so on. The recommendation engine can recommend to the user an app and or platform that can be supported by the server and can be used to provide a video live stream to one or more followers of the user . The example shows three followers and of user . Each follower has a line of sight view to a video screen on a portable networked electronic device. In other embodiments one or more followers can be following the user using any other networked electronic device including a computer. In example person has line of sight view to the video screen of device person has line of sight view to the video screen of device and user has line of sight view to the video screen of device . The portable electronic device and each can be a smartphone a PDA a tablet and so on. Each portable device can receive the video stream being broadcast by user through the Internet using the app and or platform that can be recommended by the recommendation engine . Device can receive a video stream using network link device can receive a video stream using network link device can receive a video stream using network link and so on. The network link can be a wireless link and wired link and so on. Depending on the app and or platform that can be recommended by the recommendation engine one or more followers for example followers and so on can reply to comment on and otherwise provide feedback to user using their devices and respectively.

As described above one or more videos of various types including live streamed videos can be presented to a plurality of users for wide ranging purposes. These purposes can include but are not limited to entertainment education general information political campaign messages social media sharing and so on. Mental state data can be collected from the one or users as they view the videos. The collection of the mental state data can be based on a user agreeing to enable a camera that can be used for the collection of the mental state data. The collected mental state data can be analyzed for various purposes. When the mental state data has been collected from a sufficient number of users to enable anonymity then the aggregated mental state data can be used to provide information on aggregated mental states of the viewers. The aggregated mental states can be used to recommend videos that can include media presentations and so on. The recommendations of videos can be based on videos that can be similar to those videos to which a user had a particular mental state response for example. The recommendations of videos can include videos to which the user can be more likely to have a favorable mental state response videos that can be enjoyed by the user s social media contacts videos that can be trending and so on.

The aggregated mental state data can be represented using a variety of techniques and can be presented to the one or more users. The aggregated mental state data can be presented while the one or more users can be viewing the video and the aggregated mental state data can be presented after the one or more users can be viewing the video. The video can be obtained from a server a collection of videos a live stream video and so on. The aggregated mental state data can be presented to the users using a variety of techniques. For example the aggregated mental state data can be displayed as colored dots as graphs etc. The colored dots graphs and so on can be displayed with the video embedded in the video viewed subsequently to viewing the video or otherwise presented. The aggregated mental state data can also be used to provide feedback to the originator of the video where the feedback can include viewer reaction or reactions to the video receptiveness to the video effectiveness of the video etc. The aggregated mental state data can include one of a group consisting of sadness happiness frustration confusion disappointment hesitation cognitive overload focusing being engaged attending boredom exploration confidence trust delight valence skepticism satisfaction and so on. The videos can include live streamed videos. The videos and the live streamed videos can be presented along with the aggregated mental state data from the one or more users. The aggregated mental state data as viewed by the users can be used by the users to determine what mental states can be experienced by the other users as the users view a given video when those mental states occur whether those mental states are similar to the one or more mental states experienced by the user and so on. The viewing of the aggregated mental state data can enable a viewer to experience videos viewed by others to feel connected to other users who are viewing the videos to share in the experience of viewing the videos to gauge the mental states experienced by the users and so on.

The collecting of mental state data can be performed as one or more users observe the videos described above. For example a news site a social media site a crowd sourced site an individual s digital electronic device and so on can provide the videos. The mental state data can be collected as the one or more users view a given video or live stream video. The mental state data can be recorded and analyzed. The results of the analysis of the collected mental state data from the one or more users can be displayed to the one or more users following the viewing of the video for example. For confidentiality reasons mental state data can be collected from a minimum or threshold number of users before the aggregated mental state data is displayed. One or more users on one or more social media sites can share their individual mental state data and the aggregated mental state data that can be collected. For example a user could share with their Facebook friends her or his mental state data results from viewing a particular video. How a user responds to a video can be compared to the responses of their friends of other users and so on using a variety of techniques including a social graph. For example the user could track the reactions of her or his friends to a particular video using a Facebook social graph. The mental state data can be shared automatically or can be shared manually as selected by the user. Automatic sharing of mental state data can be based on user credentials such as logging in to a social media site. A user s privacy can also be enabled using a variety of techniques including anonymizing a user s mental state data anonymizing and or deleting a user s facial data and so on. Facial tracking data can be provided in real time. In embodiments the user can have full control of playback of a video a streamed video a live streamed video and so on. That is the user can pause skip scrub go back stop and so on. Recommendations can be made to the user regarding viewing another video. The flow of a user viewing a video can continue from the current video to another video based on the recommendations. The next video can be a streamed video a live streamed video and so on.

In another embodiment aggregated mental state data can be used to assist a user to select a video video stream live stream video and so on that can be most engaging to the user. Consider a user who is interested in a particular type of video stream such as a gaming stream a sports stream a news stream a movie stream and so on and that a favorite video stream is not currently available to the user. Recommendations can be made to the user based on a variety of criteria to assist the user to find an engaging video stream. For example the user can connect to a video stream that is presenting one or more sports events but the stream does not include the stream of the user s favorite. Recommendations can be made to the user based on aggregated mental state data of other users who are ranking or reacting to the one or more sports events currently available. Similarly if analysis of the mental state data collected from the user indicates that the user is not reacting favorably to a given video stream then a recommendation can be made for another video stream based on an audience who is engaged with the latter stream.

A given user can choose to participate in collection of mental state data for a variety of purposes. One or more personae can be used to characterize or classify a given user who views one or more videos. The personae can be useful for recommending one or more videos to a user based on mental state data collected from the user for example. The recommending of one or more videos to the user can be based on aggregated mental state data collected from one or more users with a similar persona. Many personae can be described and chosen based on a variety of criteria. For example personae can include a demo user a social sharer a video viewing enthusiast a viral video enthusiast an analytics research a quantified self user a music aficionado and so on. Any number of personae can be described and any number of personae can be assigned to a particular user.

A demo user can be a user who is curious about the collection of mental state data and the presentation of that mental state data. The demo user can view any number of videos in order to experience the mental state data collection and to observe their own social curve for example. The demo user can view some viral videos in order to observe an aggregated population. The demo user can be interested in trying mental state data collection and presentation in order to determine how she or he would use such a technique for their own purposes.

A social sharer can be a user who is enthusiastic about sharing demos and videos with their friends. The friends can be social media friends such as Facebook friends for example. The videos can be particularly engaging flashy slickly produced and so on. The social sharer can be interested in the reactions to and the sharing of the video that the social sharer has shared. The social sharer can also compare their own mental states to those of their friends. The social sharer can use the comparison to increase their knowledge of their friends and to gather information about the videos that those friends enjoyed.

A video viewing enthusiast can be a user who enjoys watching videos and once she or he has begun watching videos desires to watch more videos. Such a persona can generally stay within the context of a video streaming site for example. The viewing by the user may be influenced by recommendations that can draw the user back to view more videos. When the user finds that the recommendations are desirable then the user likely can continue watching videos within the streaming site. The video enthusiast can want to find the videos that the user wants to watch and the portions of the videos that the user wants to watch.

A viral video enthusiast can be a user who chooses to watch many videos through social media. The social media can include links shares comments etc. from friends of the user for example. When the user clicks on the link to the video the user can be connected from the external site to the video site. For example the user can click a link in Reddit Twitter Facebook etc. and be connected to a video on YouTube or other video sharing site. Such a user is interested in seamless integration between the link on the social media site and the playing of the video on the video streaming site. The video streaming site can be a live streaming video site.

An analytics researcher or uploader can be a user who can be interested in tracking video performance of one or more videos over time. The performance of the one or more videos can be based on various metrics including emotional engagement of one or more viewers as they view the one or more videos. The analytics researcher can be interested primarily in the various metrics that can be generated based on a given video. The analytics can be based on demographic data geographic data and so on. Analytics can also be based on trending search terms popular search terms and so on where the search terms can be identified using web facilities such as Google Trends .

A quantified self user can be a user who can be interested studying and or documenting her or his own video watching experiences. The qualified self user reviews her or his mental state data over time can sort a list of viewed videos over a time period and so on. The qualified self user can compare their mental state data collected while watching a given video with their personal norms. This user persona can also provide feedback. The quantified self user can track their reactions to one or more videos over time and over videos where tracking over videos can include tracking favorite videos categorizing videos that have been viewed remembering favorite videos etc.

A music enthusiast can be a user who can be a consumer of music who uses a video streaming site as a music streaming site. For example this user persona can use music mixes from sites such as YouTube as if they were provide by a music streaming site such as Spotify Pandora Rdio Apple Music Tidal and so on. The music enthusiast persona can be less likely to be sitting in front of a screen since their main mode of engagement is sound rather than sight. Facial reactions that can be captured of the listener can be weaker for example than those facial reactions captured from a viewer.

The method can include comparing the mental state data that was captured against mental state event temporal signatures. In embodiments the method can include identifying a mental state event type based on the comparing. And the recommending of the second media presentation can be based on the mental state event type. The first media presentation can include a first socially shared livestream video. The method can further comprise generating highlights for the first socially shared livestream video based on the mental state data that was captured. The first socially shared livestream video can include an overlay with information on the mental state data that was captured. The overlay can include information on the mental state data collected from the other people. The mental state data that was captured for the first socially shared livestream video can be analyzed substantially in real time. In some embodiments the second media presentation includes a second socially shared livestream video. The method can further comprise a recommendation for changing from the first socially shared livestream video to the second socially shared livestream video. The first socially shared livestream video can be broadcast to a plurality of people. In embodiments the method can further comprise providing an indication to the individual that the second socially shared livestream video is ready to be joined.

Once the mental state data has been collected the client computer may upload information to a server or analysis computer based on the mental state data from the plurality of viewers who observe the video. The client computer may communicate with the server over the Internet intranet some other computer network or by any other method suitable for communication between two computers. In some embodiments the analysis computer functionality may be embodied in the client computer.

The analysis computer may have a connection to the Internet to enable mental state information to be received by the analysis computer . Further the analysis computer may have a memory which stores instructions data help information and the like and one or more processors attached to the memory wherein the one or more processors can execute instructions. The memory may be used for storing instructions for storing mental state data for system support and the like. The analysis computer may use the Internet or other computer communication method to obtain mental state information . The analysis computer may receive mental state information collected from a plurality of viewers from the client computer or computers and may aggregate mental state information on the plurality of viewers who observe the video.

The analysis computer may process mental state data or aggregated mental state data gathered from a viewer or a plurality of viewers to produce mental state information about the viewer or plurality of viewers. In some embodiments the analysis server may obtain mental state information from the video client . In this case the mental state data captured by the video client was analyzed by the video client to produce mental state information for uploading. Based on the mental state information produced the analysis server may project a value based on the mental state information for one or more videos. The analysis computer may also associate the aggregated mental state information with the rendering and also with the collection of norms for the context being measured.

In some embodiments the analysis computer may receive or provide aggregated mental state information based on the mental state data from the plurality of viewers who observe the video and may present aggregated mental state information in a rendering on a display . In some embodiments the analysis computer may be set up for receiving mental state data collected from a plurality of viewers as they observe the video in a real time or near real time embodiment. In at least one embodiment a single computer may incorporate the client server and analysis functionalities. Viewer mental state data may be collected from the client computer or computers to form mental state information on the viewer or plurality of viewers viewing a video. The mental state information resulting from the analysis of the mental state date of a viewer or a plurality of viewers may be used to project a video value based on the mental state information. The system may include computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium comprising code for playing a first media presentation to an individual code for capturing mental state data for the individual while the first media presentation is played and code for recommending a second media presentation to the individual based on the mental state data for the individual which was captured. The system may include capabilities for affect based recommendation comprising a memory for storing instructions one or more processors attached to the memory wherein the one or more processors are configured to play a first media presentation to an individual capture mental state data for the individual while the first media presentation is played and recommend a second media presentation to the individual based on the mental state data for the individual which was captured. The system may include computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium comprising code for selecting a video code for embedding the video within a web enabled interface wherein the web enabled interface activates collecting of mental state data and code for distributing the web enabled interface. The system may include capabilities for rendering video comprising a memory for storing instructions one or more processors attached to the memory wherein the one or more processors are configured to select a video embed the video within a web enabled interface wherein the web enabled interface activates collecting of mental state data and distribute the web enabled interface.

The above methods may be executed on one or more processors on one or more computer systems. Embodiments may include various forms of distributed computing client server computing and cloud based computing. Further it will be understood that for the flow diagrams in this disclosure the depicted steps or boxes are provided for purposes of illustration and explanation only. The steps may be modified omitted or re ordered and other steps may be added without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Further each step may contain one or more sub steps. While the foregoing drawings and description set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software and or hardware for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context. All such arrangements of software and or hardware are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure.

The block diagrams and flow diagram illustrations depict methods apparatus systems and computer program products. Each element of the block diagrams and flow diagram illustrations as well as each respective combination of elements in the block diagrams and flow diagram illustrations illustrates a function step or group of steps of the methods apparatus systems computer program products and or computer implemented methods. Any and all such functions may be implemented by computer program instructions by special purpose hardware based computer systems by combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions by combinations of general purpose hardware and computer instructions by a computer system and so on. Any and all of which may be generally referred to herein as a circuit module or system. 

A programmable apparatus which executes any of the above mentioned computer program products or computer implemented methods may include one or more processors microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors programmable devices programmable gate arrays programmable array logic memory devices application specific integrated circuits or the like. Each may be suitably employed or configured to process computer program instructions execute computer logic store computer data and so on.

It will be understood that a computer may include a computer program product from a computer readable storage medium and that this medium may be internal or external removable and replaceable or fixed. In addition a computer may include a Basic Input Output System BIOS firmware an operating system a database or the like that may include interface with or support the software and hardware described herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to applications involving conventional computer programs or programmable apparatus that run them. It is contemplated for example that embodiments of the presently claimed invention could include an optical computer quantum computer analog computer or the like. A computer program may be loaded onto a computer to produce a particular machine that may perform any and all of the depicted functions. This particular machine provides a means for carrying out any and all of the depicted functions.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a non transitory computer readable medium for storage. A computer readable storage medium may be electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared semiconductor or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Further computer readable storage medium examples may include an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM Flash MRAM FeRAM phase change memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

It will be appreciated that computer program instructions may include computer executable code. A variety of languages for expressing computer program instructions may include without limitation C C Java JavaScript ActionScript assembly language Lisp Perl Tcl Python Ruby hardware description languages database programming languages functional programming languages imperative programming languages and so on. In embodiments computer program instructions may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on a computer a programmable data processing apparatus a heterogeneous combination of processors or processor architectures and so on. Without limitation embodiments of the present invention may take the form of web based computer software which includes client server software software as a service peer to peer software or the like.

In embodiments a computer may enable execution of computer program instructions including multiple programs or threads. The multiple programs or threads may be processed more or less simultaneously to enhance utilization of the processor and to facilitate substantially simultaneous functions. By way of implementation any and all methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. Each thread may spawn other threads which may themselves have priorities associated with them. In some embodiments a computer may process these threads based on priority or other order.

Unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context the verbs execute and process may be used interchangeably to indicate execute process interpret compile assemble link load or a combination of the foregoing. Therefore embodiments that execute or process computer program instructions computer executable code or the like may act upon the instructions or code in any and all of the ways described. Further the method steps shown are intended to include any suitable method of causing one or more parties or entities to perform the steps. The parties performing a step or portion of a step need not be located within a particular geographic location or country boundary. For instance if an entity located within the United States causes a method step or portion thereof to be performed outside of the United States then the method is considered to be performed in the United States by virtue of the entity causing the step to be performed.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

