---

title: Method and apparatus for using a search engine advantageously within a contact center system
abstract: Apparatus for operating a multimedia contact center, comprising a multimedia contact center system for handling communications sessions between an organization and its customers and obtaining media-specific information relating to the communications session, and a search engine for performing a search in relation to the obtained media-specific information, wherein the multimedia contact center system is configured to use the results from the search in handling the communications session, wherein the results may include heterogeneous material not primarily intended for session handling purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565311&OS=09565311&RS=09565311
owner: NEWVOICEMEDIA LIMITED
number: 09565311
owner_city: Basingview
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20150728
---
The present invention is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 226 387 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR USING A SEARCH ENGINE ADVANTAGEOUSLY WITHIN A CONTACT CENTER SYSTEM filed on Sep. 6 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 376 269 titled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INTEGRATING COMPUTER TELEPHONY AND SEARCH TECHNOLOGY filed on Feb. 3 2009 which is the national stage entry of and claims priority to PCT application serial number PCT7GB2007 001398 with the same title filed on Aug. 4 2006. The disclosure of each of the above referenced patent applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Switch routes the call through telephone network to a telephone belonging to an agent . For example switch may route a particular incoming call to agent B having telephone B. CTI server may instruct switch which particular agent to forward the incoming call to. In other implementations switch may make this decision through some other mechanism such as agent availability and notify CTI server accordingly .

In addition to telephone each agent is also provided with a workstation . CTI server has access to a customer relationship management CRM database . CTI server can use information about a particular call provided by switch to look up information relating to the caller in CRM database . For example this information may represent a name and address of a party associated with a particular calling line identification as well as any information about previous orders that this person may have made and so on. CTI server can then provide this information to workstation associated with agent who receives the call in order to assist the agent in handling the caller. For example if the incoming call is to be routed to telephone B of agent B then CTI server accesses information about the caller from CRM database and forwards this information to corresponding workstation B.

If no agent is free to handle incoming call switch may put the caller in a queue. While the caller is in a queue switch may provide the caller with marketing messages information about queue status and so on. These messages may be sourced from IVR or switch themselves.

In some circumstances a call may be handled automatically without having to reach an agent . For example a caller may ring to obtain an account balance. IVR system may be able to obtain the account number from the caller perform appropriate security checks for example accepting an input PIN access one or more account balances from a server via a link not shown between IVR and computer network and then provide relevant balances to the caller for example by using text to speech systems well known in the art.

Call centers having CTI such as shown in have been around for many years. In many cases systems such as the one shown in are internal to a particular organization. In other words switch represents a PBX and telephone network represents an internal telephone network of the organization. Likewise computer network represents an internal computer network such as an intranet of the organization.

An alternative configuration sometimes referred to as SPE service provider equipment involves locating CTI server within a general telephone network with switch being a central office switch or other network resident switch that forms part of an overall network run by a carrier. In this configuration telephone network may be a public switch telephone network PSTN and computer network may be the Internet. There may be additional equipment not shown in to link workstations to computer network and or telephones to telephone network . For example workstations may be attached to an internal network such as an Ethernet which is then linked to computer network by a router and firewall for example other network architectures are common in the art while telephones may be linked to telephone network by an automatic call distribution ACD unit.

There are some drawbacks associated with the architecture of . For example CTI server may be relatively expensive. In addition it is necessary to provide CTI server with access to CRM database . Generally this requires CTI server to be able to submit queries to CRM database and to be able to understand the responses for example by providing CTI server with access to a database application programming interface API supported by CRM database . In practice many smaller call centers do not have a CTI server rather workstations typically access CRM database directly without using or benefiting from any telephony information acquired by switch .

WO 00 54485 discloses a system for administering call set up in a telecommunications network. A web page stores call handling data for a caller in extensible markup language XML or some other predetermined format. Such a web page typically contains an identifier and title a policy type and owner and various rules. Upon connection of a call to a switch information associated with a call is converted to keywords for a search engine to locate a web page corresponding to or at least relevant to the initiating caller thereby allowing the call to be handled accordingly.

It is common for organizations to outsource CTI and or call center operations to one or more third parties. This strategy may be adopted by very small organizations which may only have one incoming telephone line as well as by larger organizations. In some cases third parties may provide CTI services to assist the organization in handling calls itself while in other cases third parties may be responsible for complete handling of calls i.e. the original organization is not involved at all in handling calls .

One problem with third party call center models concerns provision of access for CTI service provider i.e. the third party to CRM database of a client i.e. an organization on whose behalf the hosted telephony service is being provided . For example a client may provide CTI server with its own copy of CRM database but this copy may not always be up to date. In addition CTI server may now have to support access to potentially multiple different CRM database formats for multiple different clients adding significantly to cost and complexity of CTI server . Furthermore certain CRM data may be unavailable to service provider which may in turn limit the functionality that CTI server can provide.

Another difficulty is that smaller organizations may not have the capacity to maintain a proper CRM database . This has generally meant that such small clients have not been able to benefit from full CTI services.

Accordingly one preferred embodiment of the invention provides a method of operating a multimedia contact center. The method involves initiating or receiving a communications session in one of a plurality of communications media obtaining media specific information relating to the communications session performing a search with a search engine in relation to the obtained media specific information and using results from the search in handling the session. The search results include heterogeneous material not primarily intended for session handling purposes.

According to one embodiment of the invention the search has a domain of a single computing device. According to an alternative embodiment of the invention the search has a domain of a plurality of data containing devices associated with a single user or group of users. According to yet another alternative embodiment the search has a domain of material held within an organization. In yet another embodiment the search engine is an enterprise search engine that performs a search across multiple servers of the organization. In another embodiment the search is performed across the Internet.

According to various embodiments of the invention communications sessions are directed to one or more users each associated with a single computing device based at least in part on the search results. In yet further embodiments the heterogeneous collection of materials comprises one or more of emails web pages and word processing documents. In some embodiments the search results are used to provide information to at least one participant of the communications session. In another embodiment the search results are used to determine an advertisement to be delivered via the communications session to at least one participant of the communications session.

In a preferred embodiment the search engine uses a party s media specific address as a search string. In another preferred embodiment the search results are used for determining an operation to be performed on the communications session. In some embodiments at least two searches are performed using data from a single communications session. In a preferred embodiment the method further comprises parsing the search results to determine how to handle the communications session. In yet a further embodiment the parsing comprises looking for one or more data items having a predetermined structure in the search material and does not require the search material to have a predetermined format. In some embodiments the search results are used to provide map information.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention an apparatus for operating a multimedia contact center is disclosed comprising a multimedia contact center system for handling communications sessions between an organization and its customers and obtaining media specific information relating to the communications session and a search engine for performing a search in relation to the obtained media specific information. According to the embodiment the multimedia contact center is configured to use the results from the search in handling a communications session and the results may include heterogeneous material not primarily intended for session handling purposes.

In yet another preferred embodiment of the invention a method for operating a multimedia contact center is disclosed comprising the steps of a initiating a communications session targeted at a specific consumer b providing information relating to the communications session c performing a search with a search engine in relation to the provided information and d using results from the search in handling the session wherein the results may include heterogeneous material not primarily intended for call handling purposes. According to yet another embodiment of the invention the provided information comprises an identity of the target of the communications session.

It will be appreciated that the apparatus embodiment of the invention may benefit from the same preferred features as the method embodiment of the invention.

The present invention also provides a computer program for implementing a method as described above and a computer readable medium such as a DVD flash memory or hard disk containing such a program.

Search engine may also be able to access CRM database if present or alternatively CTI server may itself directly access CRM database as shown in .

CTI server now sends a request to search engine based on received CTI information rather than CTI server itself performing a database lookup as in the operation of the system in . When CTI server receives search results back from search engine CTI server can use the received search results to perform appropriate call handling 340 . This call handling may for example involve directing a call to a particular agent and his her telephone based on the search results and or providing information from search results as a screen pop or similar onto a workstation of an agent who is about to receive the call.

Although the processing of is depicted as a simple sequence of steps more complicated scenarios are possible. For example CTI server may initially try to obtain information itself from CRM database as for . In this case CTI server might only make a search request at operation if the information available from CRM database is insufficient for call handling. For example if an incoming calling number is not present in CRM database CTI server may request search engine to locate the telephone number for example by searching over a set of web pages or a set of emails. If CTI server can then find a name associated with the telephone number either for an individual or a company CTI server may then return to CRM database to try to find this name in CRM database in order to obtain further information that may be pertinent for call handling.

Another possibility is that if information obtained by CTI server is regarded as insufficient for call handling purposes CTI server may ask switch or other relevant apparatus to acquire further information from the caller for example using an IVR as mentioned above. This further information may then be used as the basis for another search conducted by search engine .

It will be appreciated therefore that there are multiple different routes for CTI server to acquire information for example from an IVR a CRM database and or one or more search engines . Depending on particular applications and circumstances CTI server may exercise these different routes sequentially or in parallel or via some combination of the two iteratively conditionally and so on. For example information about a caller retrieved from CRM database might be used as the basis for a search by search engine conversely information found from a search might be used to help identify a caller record in CRM database .

In contrast to the configuration of where CTI server performs a database lookup for a specific formatted record for the caller or indeed the approach of WO 2005 017773 in which a search engine locates a specific formatted web page for a caller search engine of adopts a very different approach. In particular search engine is not trying to locate predetermined call handling data stored in a single formatted record or web page. Rather based on call details such as calling number search engine retrieves information of potential relevance to call handling across the search domain.

The retrieved information may be distributed across multiple documents forming a heterogeneous collection of generic material such as emails web sites internal company documents for example Word files spreadsheets and the like and so on. Note that this material was not originally intended designed or created for CTI call handling purposes and so does not directly instruct CTI server how to process a call rather CTI server or another system has to infer how to process a call from an analysis of material retrieved by a search.

Search engine has access to a potentially much wider range of data than conventional CTI systems such as that shown in which is limited to the contents of CRM database . For example a CRM database may only contain information about existing customers whereas search engine can look for information about callers who are not currently customers and hence might represent potential new customers . Search engine can also retrieve a much broader range of material that would normally be stored in CRM database for example emails that a customer has previously sent into an organization. This information can greatly improve handling of the call.

Furthermore search engines are widely deployed for general information retrieval. Consequently a search engine such as shown in can be readily obtained by an organization if not already available within the organization and moreover can be installed and maintained by general IT staff without requiring specialist skills in CTI or CRM database technology. In addition search engine generally accepts input search strings in the format of basic text this can be regarded as a very simple and standardized form of API . Thus in some embodiments CTI server avoids having to support formalized database queries into CRM database which therefore reduces the burden and complexity of CTI server . Accordingly upfront and running costs of configurations like that of are very competitive.

It will be appreciated that in many cases the search engine performs a continuous or regular process of searching servers etc. Search engine indexes and or caches results of ongoing searching for use in responding to future search requests. Thus in response to a request from CTI server at operation search engine may already have results available based on the index information and or cached data rather than having to perform a new search of servers in response to each incoming request. Results may be returned to CTI server either as the materials themselves or as links to the relevant materials e.g. URLs .

Note that indexing and potentially advanced caching may be customized for CTI integration. For example indexing may be performed by telephone number. Additional searching could also be performed in advance. For example the system could search for any telephone numbers in internal documents of an organization. For each telephone number located it could look at which employee name is associated most frequently or most recently with each telephone number. This then gives a mapping of telephone numbers to employees which can be used for the routing of future incoming calls.

Thus as shown in search engine is connected to both an internal computer network intranet for an organization and also to an external computer network extranet or the internet . Note that while switch CTI server search engine and cache are shown as external to organization one or more of these components may be internal to the organization depending upon the particular implementation adopted. For example in some implementations search engine may be an internal search engine run by a particular organization while in other implementations it may be a general search engine accessed over the Internet such as www.google.com .

Information that might be searched by search engine over network comprises for example the following 

Restricted material may be subject to possible payment subscription registration password and other restrictions which can be provided to search engine for access.

Information that might be searched by search engine over network comprises for example the following 

It will be appreciated that search domains that is ranges of content sources accessed in response to search requests used by search engine may be different for different implementations. For example in some implementations search engine may only search computers within organization and not look for information over any external network. In addition search domains may be specific for a particular call. For example an incoming call may have a direct dial number to an extension of a particular user. Search engine may then search one or more desktop and laptop machines associated with that particular user to find information for handling the call.

In the embodiment of search engine has an associated index and cache . These can be used in conventional fashion to assist the operations of search engine . Thus index maps search terms to material containing those terms to provide fast search retrieval while cache contains copies of at least some material accessible to search engine . It will be appreciated that both cache and index are generally populated by performing ongoing searches using a spider or similar tool thereby ensuring that results are rapidly available for newly received searches.

CTI server of includes a parser note that in some embodiments parser may be a separate machine or part of search engine . The role of parser is to automatically extract useful information from material retrieved by search engine . For example if a search string is based on a calling telephone number of an incoming call parser can try to identify a post zip code in a set of documents found by search engine . This identification may take into consideration factors such as the known format of a post zip code the proximity of a post code in a retrieved document to the calling telephone number a quantity of retrieved documents that contain the same post code associated with a particular calling telephone number and so on. Although there are commercially available databases that map calling line ID to postcode these are not always complete and do not assist with non geographic numbers such as mobile phone numbers . Note that parser may also be operated on a continuous basis across a search domain of search engine with corresponding results stored cached so that results are rapidly available for an incoming call.

As a specific example of the above processing an organization may receive a call from a mobile telephone or other non geographic number . The mobile telephone might be used by a person running a home business with a web site that lists both the mobile telephone number and the address of the business. Parser can then extract the postcode from this web site and use this information to determine how best to handle the call. For example the call might be directed for handling to a particular branch office of the organization that is located near the caller s business address or an agent handling the call may be prompted with information concerning the store nearest to the assumed location of the caller.

Information received from CTI enabled telephone is used to form a search query that is then entered into search engine . The scope of this search depends on the configuration of search engine . For example the search may be limited to files on desktop or may extend to various network services accessible to desktop for example a file and or email server .

As an example of the operation of the system of desktop system may receive from telephone a telephone number of a caller associated with an incoming call . This telephone number is then entered as a search string into search engine which searches a variety of data such as saved documents emails spreadsheets and so forth for this string as explained in relation to this search may be performed in direct response to a request or it may alternatively utilize index and or cached materials from previous searching . For example this search may identify one or more emails containing this telephone number which may well have been received from the person making the call. Accordingly results from search engine contain links to these emails and any other materials that match the search string. The search results including associated links can then be displayed to the person receiving the call thereby allowing relevant materials to be readily accessed in order to assist handling the incoming call .

It will be appreciated that the approach of is extremely flexible and powerful. In addition it can be readily used by very small organizations since the only additional functionality involved for a person who already uses Google desktop or similar is to receive CTI information from telephone and to enter this information into search engine with results from the resulting search then being displayed automatically to the user. Accordingly the embodiment of provides a very flexible and low cost introduction of CTI facilities.

The desktop configuration of can also be applied to larger systems with many agents as shown in where each workstation may be provided with its own search engine rather than having a single shared search engine such as shown in . In this distributed approach when the switch forwards an incoming call to a telephone of a selected agent it also provides the corresponding workstation with needed information for forming the search query. Such an architecture provides CTI information despite only very limited support from switch switch may do no more than forward basic call information to a workstation associated with a telephone that is to receive the call .

One possible situation is where switch supports direct dial to different telephone extensions A B. In this case the search domain may be limited to or start with material associated with the particular user corresponding to the dialed extension. This material may comprise for example files stored on a computer associated with that user and or files owned by that user and stored centrally.

The configuration of may also be readily adopted in respect of Internet telephone systems such as Skype Vonage or other systems that adhere to a protocol such as the session initiation protocol SIP for voice over Internet VOIP calls see http www.voip info.org wiki for more details of Internet telephone systems . In such a configuration incoming call is received in effect directly into desktop machine over the Internet or other computer network rather than being received over a dedicated telephony network such as a PSTN . Accordingly desktop machine has immediate access to information about the call for use in formulating a search query for search engine . Note that if an incoming call is received from a VOIP system whether into another VOIP system or a conventional telephone network then the information about that call may be somewhat different from that available for an incoming call over the conventional PSTN. For example the call information might represent a name user id network address and so on. Nevertheless this call information can still be used as a basis for a search query to obtain additional information for call handling purposes.

It will be appreciated from the various embodiments so far described that the present invention can be adopted in a wide variety of configurations. For example search technology may be integrated into ACD systems including call centers whether network based SPE or customer based CPE carrier network operations landline mobile Internet etc. systems based on desktop machines such as shown in whether in standalone mode or connected to a remote CTI system. Search engine and search domain can be adjusted to each particular configuration and application. For example search engine may be based on any type of system from a desktop machine such as shown in through to a high powered server or cluster of servers depending on the number of calls to be handled. Likewise search domain may represent a single computer a single computer network for example a local area network an enterprise network or a public network such as the Internet etc.

Results of searches carried out in accordance with the invention can be used to control one or more different aspects of call handling. Such aspects may include direct treatment of a call such as determining a priority given to the call determining to whom a call to be forwarded how to process a call if the intended recipient is not available and so on.

Results of searches can also be provided for example as a screen pop delivered to a person involved in handling the call such as a receptionist who may then route the call with or without first answering the call an agent who receives the call or any other person who handles the call. Search results can also be used to determine whether a call is directed to an automated IVR system to acquire and or play additional information from to a caller as well as to specify a caller treatment to be carried out by an IVR for example by determining what menus to offer a caller.

In one embodiment search results may be used to deliver advertising or marketing content to a caller. For example a wholesaler for automobile parts may receive a call and search information based on caller information indicates that the caller is a tire fitter. The caller may then be played an advertisement for a particular brand of tire before that is while waiting for connection to a service operative of the wholesaler. If the caller is calling from a mobile telephone or an Internet telephone the advertisement may also or alternatively be sent directly to the caller for example as a screen pop and the content of the advertisement may at least in part be determined by location information obtained from the mobile device used by the caller. Advertising in this manner can provide revenue to the wholesaler and or to the provider of telephony services for the wholesaler.

The telephony information in a search request to search engine or may comprise the calling line identification the dialed number identification or perhaps other information entered by a caller into an IVR system such as account number etc. This information can be supplemented in a search request by other wording to improve search results. There are many possibilities for this additional wording such as for example specifying a search for telephony information a term such as name or address this may increase the chances of pulling up additional useful information such as name and or address relating to the caller. An agent handling a call may then be able to confirm that a retrieved name and or address is correct for the caller and may then be able to transfer this information into CRM database if not already present . Note that this is a much more caller friendly and less error prone process than having to acquire the address from the caller himself herself for entry into computer systems of the organization. Another example is to search for telephony information plus names of individuals within an organization. For example if the telephony information is found in combination with a name plus a title of managing director or CEO this may indicate a more important caller. Additional examples include search for telephony information plus particular promotion names e.g. gold 30 customer since this may also affect how the call is handled and search for telephony information plus a term such as sales where subsequent processing might test any numerical values returned to try to assess the importance of the customer.

Note that in some cases the additional search terminology may be dependent on the telephony information. For example the name of the town corresponding to the area code of the incoming call may be used to search for an address e.g. if an incoming call is from a UK area code of 02380 it may be appropriate to include Southampton in the search terms.

The number of hits for a given search combination may also be significant for deciding how to handle an incoming call. For example the more times that the name of the CEO is found in conjunction with the caller information the more important the caller is assumed to be and the higher the call priority e.g. it may be directed to a more senior person . In addition the search request may represent multiple individual searches which may be performed in parallel or in succession. In the latter case the later searches may be conditional or dependent on results of earlier searches. For example multiple searches could be performed in parallel each combining available telephone information with a name of a different person in an organization to see who is most appropriate to answer the call e.g. based on which combination gets most hits . Another possibility would be to perform a first search to find a company name associated with a calling telephone number. A second search might then be performed to locate information associated with that company such as a financial reports news items etc.

In one embodiment CTI server passes raw search results to a person for example a call center agent handling the call as information potentially relevant to the call. This completely avoids CTI server s having to be able to interpret parse search results which can significantly simplify the complexity of deploying a system according to the invention.

In another embodiment CTI server may utilize search results itself for example in determining how to route a call for example by performing a search in combination with one or more names as discussed above. In this embodiment CTI server or some other system such as parser processes search results from search engine . This capability to the search results may involve counting a number of hits or may include some ability to interpret semantically or otherwise any received data for example to detect a name or address in the text.

As previously mentioned input to search engine is generally in a simple text format. Likewise the results from the search engine are generally presented in a standard format of links e.g. URLs or URIs to relevant material or as complete documents or shortened previews of documents. Thus unlike with CRM database where every organization may have its own database format the results from search engine are generally presented in a much more consistent format. This avoids for example a CTI supplier having to write a different front end to parser for each different organization.

Note that although links URIs are generally presented as standard text strings they may link to any form of content such as audio images video etc. In some cases search engine may locate this material based on ancillary data metadata such as file name etc. In other cases search engine may be able to work directly with different forms of content such as performing speech recognition on audio data. There is also for example much ongoing research concerning the automatic classification of images . As an example of this approach a call center for a clothing retailer may try to access an image of a caller for example by locating a facial or body image on a web page that also contains the name of the caller. This might then suggest an age and general build or size of the caller which might in turn indicate the type of clothing products of most interest to them. The accuracy of this approach could be enhanced by comparing images from a plurality of different web sites containing the caller s name for example the caller s LINKEDIN professional profile his TWITTER profile and his FACEBOOK page and looking for a match.

The following illustrates a set of results from a search based on a calling number 02380719500 on the site www.google.co.uk 

If an organization such as a bank receives a call from this number an agent who receives the call can immediately identify the name of the caller the address of the caller and also the business of the caller from the search results. The search could be extended further by using the company name readily identified automatically at the start of the above two entries as another search string which yields the following on www.google.co.uk 

This is the main web site for D Young Co and provides the agent with ready access to further information about the caller.

Tab D shown in provides a script for an agent to use in handling a call such scripts are conventional in call center applications . The remaining tabs provide additional material which may be obtained from searches based on caller information in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. This additional material may help an agent to interact with a calling party at a more individual and hence generally more successful level. In tab A is currently in the foreground and provides a listing of search results hits obtained using caller information as a search query similar to that shown above .

Note that if there are too many hits for display within a single screen a facility can be provided to scroll or page down to additional hits in conventional fashion. In this particular embodiment hits are presented as live links so that by clicking on a desired search result the user is taken directly to the corresponding material. In some cases a user may be presented with a choice of going to the original material or a cached version for speed . Tab B provides a similar listing to tab A but is limited to news items. This corresponds to a service available on certain search engines such as Google in which a search domain is limited to news material rather than all material available on the web . Search engines may offer other limited search domains that might be presented on other tabs. For example Google offers the Froogle service in which the search domain is limited to advertisers. Tab C takes a location and plots a map for this location using Google maps or any other available mapping tool. The location can be determined by parsing search data such as shown in the second search result above for D Young Co. to for example extract a post zip code. Alternatively a location might be obtained using existing data sets for directly converting telephone numbers to locations. The map may be augmented with information pertinent to a person handling the call. For example if a call is received at a pizza outlet the map may indicate a delivery area for the outlet or if a call is received at a council education office the map may indicate the locations and catchment areas for schools.

The ordering of the hits in listing corresponds to the ordering produced by search engine . This in turn is generally based on relevance which may be calculated from a variety of factors such as prominence of the search terms number of links to the relevant material age of material and so on. The type of material can also be used as an indicator of importance or relevance. For example recent emails might be treated as a primary source of information recent local files as a secondary source of information and public material e.g. the Internet as a further source of information. As noted above in some embodiments the search domain may be restricted to only certain information sources depending upon the application and circumstances. In some embodiments information from different sources may be presented in a single ordering of relevance while in other embodiments hits from different sources may be presented on different tabs so that one tab might be for email hits one tab might be for hits from local files one tab might be for hits from files across the enterprise and so on.

In a preferred embodiment a database is used to store a record of incoming calls and this database also tracks any links or material used in processing the call. This material may then be given an increased relevance for handling future calls perhaps from the same organization or calling number .

Although the invention has primarily been described in the context of inbound calls it may also be applied in the context of outbound calls. For example a call center may make outbound marketing or customer survey calls to a given telephone number. The agent handling the call may be provided with a screen similar to that of for handling the call so that the agent is provided with additional material such as shown on the tabs for Hits News and Map to supplement the standard script. As for inbound applications this additional material may help an agent to interact with a called party at a more individual and hence generally more successful level.

In another outbound embodiment a caller makes a call using speech recognition by speaking the desired target of the call this may be a person or an organization . Search engine can then search for the name and or number of the target. The data to be searched might include phone numbers from private directories phone numbers from enterprise directories phone numbers from Yellow Pages or White Pages phone numbers from web sites phone numbers from emails and so on. The caller may also be provided with other information of potential relevance to the call. For example if the target is a particular organization e.g. a supplier the caller might be provided with current order details from that supplier.

In addition to personal computer and laptop possibly supplemented by telephones consumers today may use a wide range of highly capable devices as endpoints for communications with enterprise multimedia contact centers. For example mobile device which could be a personal digital assistant a netbook or even a wristwatch equipped with basic processing capabilities and a wireless radio may be used as an endpoint. From mobile device a consumer might send or receive emails to or from one or more email servers for further transmission to an enterprise contact center for instance when a consumer wishes to find a status of a loan application by sending an email . Alternatively instant messaging mediated by one or more instant messaging servers or social media mediated by one or more social media servers or VoIP telephony over Internet may be used to establish or conduct communications sessions with an enterprise multimedia contact center. Similarly tablet device such as Apple s iPad smart phones of which many varieties are well known in the art or even kiosks which are generally standalone computers in public locations such as airports or retail outlets that provide at least interconnection capability to visiting consumers may all be used as endpoints for communications between a consumer and an enterprise multimedia contact center. Moreover each of these types of devices and others not shown but that are or become known in the art is usually capable of supporting more than one particular communications channel or medium but may not support all possible channels. For instance a tablet might not be equipped with mobile telephony capabilities and thus not be able to conduct conventional telephony sessions phone calls but might be adapted to use VoIP and a public wireless connection to conduct telephony sessions over Internet instead of a telephone network . Further many mobile devices mobile devices tablets smart phones and even laptops may be equipped with global positioning system GPS receiver hardware and software to enable them to receive information pertaining to a present location or recent set of locations or trajectories of one or more users of the mobile devices from GPS satellites .

The preceding paragraphs have described a wide range of communications channels media or modalities that are available to consumers or others for instance business partners seeking to communicate with an enterprise multimedia contact center it is fair to say that today the number of options is continually expanding both in terms of underlying technologies conventional telephony VoIP telephony video instant messaging email social media and so forth as well as in terms of available providers instead of one or two phone service providers consumers now may select from several landline and mobile phone providers a wide range of freely available email services and so forth . These capabilities in the hands of consumers have led steadily to the use of more and more communications channels and protocols within enterprise contact centers. Not even fifteen years ago essentially all contact centers handled one type of medium conventional telephone calls delivered generally over a single network provider with whom the operator of the contact center had a long term telecommunications contract whereas today most contact centers are tasked with responding to or reaching out to consumers via most or all of the available communications channels those consumers might adopt.

In order to be able to handle additional media types enterprise contact centers have become more complex. For instance and according to a preferred embodiment of the invention an enterprise multimedia contact center comprises one or more switches sometimes deployed in a third party hosting facility or within a telephone network or located in one or more data centers of the enterprise or collocated with the various contact center sites directly on an enterprise s premises. Since many consumers still choose conventional telephony to communicate with enterprises and since today it is commonplace in the art to convert a telephone call from one of VoIP and TDM to the other as needed either in the network or within an enterprise s premises according to the embodiment one or more interactive voice response IVR units not shown are used to provide voice based menus and announcements to consumers and to accept speech input from consumers. As in the case of embodiments described with reference to switch is normally connected to CTI server and provides notification of call related events and updates of call related data usually obtained from an IVR directly although in some embodiments an IVR is also connected to CTI server and passes this information directly to CTI server . In addition as described above CTI server accesses data from multimedia database to enable intelligent routing of calls and provision of caller related data to agent workstations which are typically configured as described with reference to although in embodiments relating to multimedia contact centers agent workstations are also provided with software for acting as an endpoint and managing one or more of the alternative communications media such as IM email chat social media and video . While some switches known in the art have been extended to become unified communications servers many enterprises maintain conventional telephony switches and use one or more media servers to manage non telephony channels and often to manage VoIP telephony as well . In most embodiments of multimedia contact centers media servers serve to handle low level media details such as transcoding encryption packet collection and ordering security related features pertaining to a stream of packets constituting a communications session handling bridging and conferencing of two or more sessions analogous to when switch merges two phone calls together or implements a conference bridge . Media servers are in many ways analogous in function to switch and in some embodiments there is no switch and all voice communication sessions are either delivered as or converted to VoIP telephony sessions that is packetized communications sessions as opposed to circuit based sessions which is conventional telephony and handled by one or more media servers . In some cases specific media servers handle only particular media types for instance VoIP and IM but not email while in others media servers are adapted to handle all permissible media types within an enterprise multimedia contact center.

In some embodiments as described above one or more IVRs not shown may be used to play pre recorded messages to callers. In addition in a multimedia contact center this notion of pre recorded messages may be extended quite naturally to comprise other forms of automated communications to consumers. Among these are for example predetermined email auto response messages possibly sent to consumers in response to a particular email subject classification or in response to a recognized query from a consumer such as what is the status of my refund automatically generated text messages sent via instant messaging server or social media server or via a telephone network s short messaging system or automatically selected video clips sent via one or more streaming techniques over the Internet . Furthermore according to various embodiments a number of triggering conditions or causes may be specified that act to trigger or cause the transmittal of one or more automated communications events such as an automated email IM SMS or video including but not limited to satisfying a configured business rule based on CRM data contained in multimedia database . For example a periodic query of CRM data in multimedia database can be executed that detects consumers who have applied for a loan and have not yet received an update or have not received any update in at least a specified period of time such as three days or one week in order to create a list of consumers and associated CRM data records to whom one or more automated communications events are transmitted in order to provide the consumers with an update on a status of the consumer s loan application. It should be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art that by virtue of having a large amount of relevant consumer specific data in multimedia database it is possible for a service provider operating a multimedia contact center to provide a high value proactive notification service to its clients.

In a preferred embodiment session control server performs a signaling and control function similar to that of CTI server for instance making routing decisions such as to which agent workstation to deliver a particular session or media stream. In some embodiments session control server implements a protocol known as session initiation protocol SIP which is well known in the art and which allows it to receive requests for the initiation routing termination bridging or tagging of communications sessions of any media type. While SIP is a natural and preferred protocol for handling communications with and internal functions of session control server it is not necessary according to the invention and any suitable call or session control protocol such as call control XML or CCXML VoiceXML or state chart XML or SCXML can be used alternatively. As was described above with respect to CTI server in a voice call center either CTI server or session control server may be adapted to retrieve CRM data from multimedia database which is a generalized version of CRM database as will be described shortly . In addition to functions and data elements already described in a multimedia contact center additional data elements may optionally be added or may be required in some embodiments. Typically CRM records will contain more complex data pertaining to contact information for a given consumer since instead of one or more telephone numbers commonly for example a home phone a work phone and a mobile phone CRM records may contain email addresses instant messaging user names associated with one or more instant messaging networks social media usernames associated with one or more social media networks and so forth. As it has become common for one or more social media network providers to offer open security solutions in which a single social media network may provide account login and authentication services to a wide variety of third party services generally as a way to increase adoption of the associated social media network in some embodiments CRM records contain one or more central user identities that can be used to authenticate and login a given consumer into a plurality of third party communications systems and online locations. Similarly call records are according to multimedia contact center embodiments of the invention adapted to capture data relevant to all applicable media types. Since different media types can accommodate very different call flows sometimes referred to or considered as call topologies or call structures . For example the word session can have very different meanings when used to refer to different communications channels. With phone calls whether conventional or VoIP based a session is understood to mean a phone call or a set of related phone calls that occur substantially simultaneously and are related for instance if a consumer calls and is routed to an agent then the agent holds the consumer and makes a short call to another more expert agent then there will be within switch two calls but generally CTI server would consider them to be part of one session . In contrast email conversations or threads that is a sequence of related emails between two or more parties often over a protracted period of time that are about one particular topic or transaction are often considered to comprise a single session . In the first phone call case all sub sessions or components of a session occur at one sitting they take place within a single span of time usually with at least one active throughout the applicable span such that when the last active call of a given session is terminated the session is considered terminated and any new call that might be between the same parties would be considered a new session in the second case sessions may be comprised of many sub sessions or components that occurred over a potentially long period of time. Call records can be maintained according to the embodiment either a single table of complex data structures representing each session in whatever way is best suited for its particular media type note that in some embodiments sessions may even be composed of multiple sub sessions that comprise different media types in what are known as the art as multimodal communications scenarios or in a set of distinct tables each designed to handle session records a generalization of switch derived call records for a specific media type or group of related media types.

According to a preferred embodiment a multimedia contact center as just described is enhanced through use of search engines in much the same way as a conventional telephony call center was enhanced as described with reference to . Search engine comprises one or more network resident generally publicly accessible search engines such as Google although search engine in some embodiments may comprise a proprietary search engine such as a consumer credit related search engine . Search engine is an enterprise search appliance or server used analogously with search engine and search engine is a desktop or personal search engine analogous to search engine although in some embodiments a search scope of search engine extends across a plurality of data containing devices associated with a particular user such as one or more PCs laptops mobile devices tablet devices smart phones and even possibly personal kiosks . This search engine is in some embodiments adapted to search several devices associated with a given user or indeed with a given group of users including a group of users defined dynamically at the moment of a search in which case search engine would be provided with a target or address list specifying a search domain to use when conducting a specific search .

The skilled person will be aware of a range of possible modifications of the various embodiments described above. Accordingly the present invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

