---

title: Wireless beacon connections for providing digital letters of credit on detection of a user at a location
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for wireless beacon connections for providing digital letters of credit on detection of a user at a location. A payment provider may authorize use of one or more wireless beacons at a merchant location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626721&OS=09626721&RS=09626721
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09626721
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150331
---
The present application generally relates to wireless beacons and more specifically to wireless beacon connections for providing digital letters of credit on detection of a user at a location.

A user may visit various merchant locations where the user may wish to purchase one or more items. The user may provide cash to settle transactions or may provide payment to the merchant using another payment instrument such as a banking account payment card e.g. credit debit and or gift card or through a payment account with a payment provider. However use of cash presents significant risk to the user especially in large transactions where the user may not wish to place themself in risk of robbery or theft. Moreover use of other payment instruments requires the merchant to perform backend processing to insure the legitimacy of the payment instrument and whether the payment instrument is valid for the amount of the purchase. In some cases such as checks using a checking account the risk of fraud or insufficient funds is significant to the merchant. Further some merchants and or payment providers may wish to provide credit options to the user to entice the user to purchase items. However processing credit worthiness at the time of checkout for a transaction may be undesirable as it can be time consuming.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods that provide wireless beacon connections for providing digital letters of credit on detection of a user at a location. Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

Various merchant locations may provide short range wireless communications with a device for a user e.g. a consumer or purchaser at a merchant location such as through beacons using one or more of Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication protocol LTE Direct communication protocol WiFi communication protocol etc. These beacons may be set up at a location and communicate with devices to alert users of check in services through their device. The beacons may establish a connection with a merchant device and or server to communicate information to effectuate a check in at the merchant location for the user and or complete transactions between the merchant and the user. The beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with a payment provider server which may offer services to the user e.g. payment and or credit services . The beacons may communicate with the devices directly including information stored in the beacons. The beacons may also allow the user s device to communicate with a device or server attached to or in communication with the beacon such as a device or server of a merchant and or payment provider.

A merchant s location may offer one or more products goods and or services for sale referred to herein as an item or items. The item s may correspond to a perishable item for sale at the merchant s location. A merchant s location may correspond to a retail store a shopping market a mall location or other physical location where a user such as a consumer or purchaser may visit to purchase items. The merchant and or payment provider may utilize the short range wireless beacons at the merchant s location to communicate with a device of the user. For example the short range wireless beacons may be established throughout the merchant location such as at an entrance of the location throughout aisles or shopping areas of the location and or at a checkout counter. The beacons may employ BLE LTE Direct WiFi or other communications that emit a signal receivable by the user s device. The communication may include an identifier for the beacon the user the merchant and or the payment provider.

A user may set up their communication device to passively monitor for BLE LTE Direct WiFi or other communication signals from the beacon. When the communication device detects the signal and verifies the one or more identifiers both the communication device and the beacon may ramp up in power and establish a connection where the connection may further enable the communication device to communicate with the merchant and or payment provider. The connection may be completed automatically when the communication device is in range of the beacon or may be completed after prompting the user to check in when the communication device is in range of the beacon. The connection established with the beacon may generate connection information identifying that the user has checked in to the merchant s location through the wireless beacon. The beacon may provide the connection information to the merchant s device or server to effectuate a check in for the user. The beacon may further provide the connection information to the payment provider which may provide one or more payment services to the user.

Thus the payment provider may receive connection information having an identifier for the user. The payment provider may utilize the identifier to determine how credit worthy the user is. For example the payment provider may access retrieve and or determine one or more indicators of credit worthiness for the user. Indicators of credit worthiness may include a credit rating past transactions by the user security verifications on identity of the user e.g. how likely the checked in user is actually the identified user and not a fraudulent user misrepresenting their identification known financial accounts of the user net worth or other value of the indicator actual or obtainable collateral provided by the user or other indicator of trust in financial value of the user. The payment provider may determine whether the payment provider may provide credit to the user e.g. meeting at least a threshold score and or a value of the credit worthiness e.g. an amount of credit to extend to the user which may be dependent on the merchant location time day etc. In other embodiments the credit may be solely dependent on user creditworthiness independent of other factors such that the value of credit worthiness would be the same for the user at any given time regardless of location merchant and other factors.

Once the payment provider has determined an amount of credit to extend to the user the payment provider may generate a digital letter of credit to provide to the user and or the merchant. The digital letter of credit may honor charges of up to and or including the amount of the credit extended to the user. The digital letter of credit may allow for the user to complete payment for one or more transactions with the merchant using the digital letter of credit. The payment provider may then honor payment for the transaction s conducted with the digital letter of credit by providing payment to the merchant and resolving the amount with the user. For example the digital letter of credit may allow for the user to purchase 100 of goods at the merchant using credit extended to the user where the payment provider may provide payment for up to and including 100 of goods to the merchant on behalf of the user. The digital letter of credit may be established so that when received by the merchant such as through a merchant device the letter of credit verifies that the payment provider will honor the amount of credit extended to the user in the digital letter of credit. Thus the merchant may asynchronously receive payment for a transaction less than or in the amount of the extended credit at a later point in time than during processing of the transaction.

The digital letter of credit may be limited by the amount of credit extended to the user. The digital letter of credit may further be of limited use depending on factors established by the payment provider when generating the letter of credit. For example a limited use letter of credit may be limited in use by one or more of time location merchant and or type of purchase. The payment provider may limit an amount of time the limited use digital letter of credit is valid e.g. 2 hours from establishment of the digital letter of credit and or communication of the digital letter of credit to the user s communication device merchant device a location for where the limited use digital letter of credit is valid e.g. only the merchant location for which the user checked in to a merchant with which the limited use digital letter of credit is valid e.g. the merchant name or chain for which the user checked in to and a type of purchase with which the limited use digital letter of credit is valid e.g. only certain items purchasable in the transaction . The credit worthiness of the user may affect the limitations on use of the digital letter of credit. Moreover information about the user the user s location and or the merchant may affect the limitations on use. For example an amount of time a customer normally spends at the merchant if the user is detected away from the merchant and or types of items for sale at the merchant s location may affect the limitations on use.

Once the limited use digital letter of credit is determined by the payment provider the limited use digital letter of credit may be communicated to the user s communication device and or a merchant device at the merchant s location. The merchant device may retain the limited use digital letter of credit for the user so that when the user verifies their identity on checkout for a transaction e.g. after bringing items to a checkout counter of the merchant the merchant may process the transaction using the limited use digital letter of credit. If the transaction exceeds the limitations on use in the limited use digital letter of credit the merchant may request payment using another payment instrument. Moreover the merchant may split payment between the limited use digital letter of credit and the other payment instrument s .

In other embodiments the user s communication device receives the limited use digital letter of credit from the payment provider. The wireless beacon may have network capabilities which may receive the limited use digital letter of credit and communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to the user s communication device. In other embodiments the payment provider may communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to the communication device over the network. The payment provider may digitally sign the limited use digital letter of credit using a key of a public private key pair to authenticate the letter of credit.

Once the communication device receives the limited use digital letter of credit the user may be alerted of the limited use digital letter of credit. The communication device may also display the limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit to the user. The user may then shop for items. Once the user is ready to purchase items the user may bring the items with their communication device to a checkout counter or payment station at the merchant s location. The merchant or a merchant employee may enter the items into a transaction. The merchant may communicate the transaction to the communication device where the user may view the details of the transaction using the communication device. The user and or the communication device may determine whether the transaction meets the limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit or exceeds such limitations. If the transactions meets the limitations on use the communication device may allow for the user to communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to the merchant device for processing of the transaction e.g. for payment for the transaction . The communication device may transmit the limited use digital letter of credit to the merchant device using short range wireless communications for example one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication LTE Direct communication and WiFi communication. The limited use letter of credit may be communicated to merchant device by the communication device with a local key to authenticate the letter of credit.

The merchant may then retrieve payment from the payment provider using the limited use digital letter of credit. Since the payment provider has digitally signed the letter of credit and verified that the payment provider will later honor the amount of credit in the letter of credit the merchant may asynchronously retrieve payment for the transaction at some later time. If the user does not use all of the credit in the limited use digital letter of credit the merchant device may amend the letter of credit to have a leftover amount of credit after the amount for the transaction. The merchant device may therefore have the public private key pair to amend the letter of credit. The amended letter of credit may be communicated back to the user device and may be honored for the leftover amount of credit restricted by any additional limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit.

Again if the transaction exceeds the limitations on use in the limited use digital letter of credit the merchant may request payment using another payment instrument. The user may attempt to request a new letter of credit for the amount in the transaction. In other embodiments the user may provide payment using a payment token from the payment provider where the payment token includes a payment instrument e.g. a bank account payment card and or payment account with the payment provider . Moreover the merchant may split payment between the limited use digital letter of credit and the other payment instrument s .

System includes a user a communication device wireless beacons a merchant device and a payment provider server in communication directly using short range wireless communications and or over a network . User such as a consumer. May arrive at a merchant location associated with merchant device in order to purchase an item. Communication device may connect with one or more of wireless beacons which may provide the connection information having an identifier for user and or communication device to payment provider server . Payment provider server may determine a digital letter of credit with associated limitations on use for user . The limited use digital letter of credit may be communicated to at least one of communication device and merchant device for use in a transaction between user and the merchant corresponding to merchant device . The merchant may then later resolve payment using the limited use digital letter of credit using merchant device with payment provider server .

Communication device wireless beacons merchant device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Communication device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with wireless beacons merchant device and or payment provider server . For example in one embodiment communication device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOGGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a communication device is shown the communication device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one communication device is shown a plurality of communication devices may function similarly.

Communication device of contains a payment module beacon connection module other applications a database and a communication module . Payment module beacon connection module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware. In other embodiments communication device may include additional or different software as required.

Payment module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of communication device to receive a limited use digital letter of credit from payment provider server display the information for the limited use digital letter of credit to user and complete a transaction with merchant device using the limited use digital letter of credit and or payment tokens having another payment instrument. In this regard payment module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized to provide a convenient interface to permit user to select payment options and provide payment for items to merchant device . For example payment module may be implemented as a user interface where user may view information for a received limited use digital letter of credit. Communication device may connect with one or more of wireless beacons where connection information for the connection having an identifier for user communication device may be provided to payment provider server for determination of limited use digital letter of credit as discussed herein. Once determined communication device may receive the limited use digital letter of credit from payment provider server for example through wireless beacon and or over network . Payment module may then display information indicating receipt of the limited use digital letter of credit as well as the limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit. For example payment module may display an amount of credit extended to user a validity time period of the letter of credit location validity for the letter of credit one or more merchants that the letter of credit is valid for use with and or items that may be purchased using the letter of credit.

Payment module may be utilized to receive a transaction from merchant device . Payment module may determine whether the transaction meets or exceeds the limitations of the limited use digital letter of credit i.e. whether the limited use digital letter of credit is valid for payment of the transaction . If the limited use digital letter of credit is valid for the transaction payment module may communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to merchant device . Payment module may communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to merchant device using short range wireless communications for example one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication LTE Direct communication and WiFi communication. User may tap swipe or otherwise motion communication device with merchant device or another nearby communication module to communicate the limited use digital letter of credit. In other embodiments payment module may communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to merchant device which may determine whether the transaction meets or exceeds the limitations of the limited use digital letter of credit. In such embodiments communication device may receive the results of the determination from merchant device including a request for a payment instrument or token if the limited use digital letter of credit exceeds the limitations of use .

However where the transaction exceeds the limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit payment module may also allow user to enter payment options for storage by communication device provide those payment options on checkout payment of one or more items request a payment token from payment provider server and or complete a transaction for the item s through a purchase request for the item s . In some embodiments payment module may correspond more generally to a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet or access a website corresponding to a payment service provider e.g. payment provider server . Payment module and or payment provider server may utilize user financial information such as a credit card bank account or other financial account as a payment instrument when providing payment information in the form of a payment token to merchant device . Additionally a user account with payment provider such as payment provider server may be utilized as the payment instrument. In various embodiments the payment token may be communicated to merchant device directly or through one or more of wireless beacons . The payment token may also include identification of the item s for purchase and a request to purchase the items. Payment module may also receive a transaction history such as a receipt from one or more of merchant device and payment provider server .

Beacon connection module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of communication device to establish a connection with one or more of wireless beacons established throughout the merchant location. In this regard beacon connection module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized to connect to one or more of wireless beacons in order to receive short range wireless communications from wireless beacons at the merchant location and transmit information to wireless beacons including check in information for a check in process with merchant device e.g. an identifier for user communication device . Wireless beacons may be located within nearby or associated with the merchant location and or a sub location within the merchant location such as an entrance aisle sales area and or checkout. Beacon connection module may communicate with one or more of wireless beacons to generate connection information for user . The connection information may identify user as located at the merchant location and or sub location. The connection information may further include an identifier for user and or communication device which may be communicated to payment provider server by wireless beacons as discussed herein.

Beacon connection module may execute in the background of an operating system of communication device and be configured to establish connections using communication module of communication device with one or more of wireless beacons . The connection may be established with or without user input from user . For example wireless beacons may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by beacon connection module as will be explained in more detail herein. Beacon connection module may utilize communication module of communication device to receive the token. If beacon connection module acknowledges the UUID as identifying wireless beacons merchant device and or payment provider server e.g. if beacon connection module determines the UUID corresponds to a request to complete a check in beacon connection module may transmit an identifier corresponding to user and or communication device back to the one or more of wireless beacons transmitting the first identifier. Beacon connection module may utilize communication module of communication device to communicate with one or more of wireless beacons e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared LTE Direct or other connection . The identifier from communication device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from the one or more of wireless beacons transmitting the first identifier. In other embodiments different information may be transmitted to wireless beacons such as a name or other personal information for user . Thus the information transmitted to wireless beacons does not need to be utilized to process and or complete a check in with merchant device in all embodiments. Once a connection is established with beacon connection module one or more of wireless beacons may communicate information to communicate device such a limited use digital letter of credit and or payment token for use by payment module .

In various embodiments one or more features of payment module and or beacon connection module may be incorporated in the same application so as to provide their respective features in one application.

Communication device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to communication device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through a network. In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may include browser social networking and or mapping applications which may also be used in conjunction with beacon connection module and or payment module . Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Communication device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with payment module beacon connection module and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of communication device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Identifiers in database may be used by a payment credit provider to associate communication device with a particular account maintained by the payment credit provider. Database may include communication device tokens and or encryption keys including an encryption key of wireless beacons and or payment provider server . Database may include received information including a limited use digital letter of credit a public key of a private public e.g. asymmetric key pair used to sign the limited use digital letter of credit a payment token and or transaction information.

Communication device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with detector tag wireless beacons and or merchant device . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with detector tag and or wireless beacons using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Wireless beacons may be maintained for example by a merchant for merchant device and or payment provider server . Wireless beacons may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication with communication device merchant device and or payment provider server . For example in one embodiment wireless beacons may be implemented as a dongle device including a hardware processor and a communication module for example connected to device at the location of the merchant. Wireless beacons may also be implemented as a device incorporated within a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data. Wireless beacons may also act as a stand alone device including a processor communication module and or network interface component configured to communicate with communication device merchant device and or payment provider server . Although wireless beacons are described as a plurality of wireless beacons set up at a merchant location for merchant device in various embodiments wireless beacons may correspond to a single wireless beacon established at the merchant location and or a sub location within the merchant location.

Wireless beacons may be located at a physical location corresponding to merchant device e.g. a merchant location such as a retail location merchant storefront etc. . Wireless beacons of contains processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program configured to interact with communication device merchant device and or payment provider server . Thus regardless of the implementation of wireless beacons as discussed above each of wireless beacons utilize a connection module and a communication module . In other embodiments wireless beacons may include additional or different software and devices as required.

Connection module may correspond to an application for transmitting requests to establish a connection between a device e.g. communication device and one of wireless beacons . The requests may be unique to each of wireless beacons and form a connection with only the matching one of wireless beacons . Thus wireless beacons may utilize short range wireless communications e.g. BLE LTE Direct WiFi etc. of wireless beacons to transmit the requests to establish a connection including an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID . If communication device receives a request to establish the connection with wireless beacons and responds with an identifier for user communication device potentially including the UUID and other information necessary to effectuate a check in for user wireless beacons to ramp up in power and create a connection between communication device and one of wireless beacons .

Each of wireless beacons may uniquely transmit the request to establish the connection with wireless beacons as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process and or a token for the one of wireless beacons transmitting the request. In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication. Additionally although wireless beacons may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the UUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices to wireless beacons e.g. communication device and establishment of a connection for data transfers.

Communication device may only pick up the request based on the signal range and or physical context for one of wireless beacons transmitting the request within the location. For example one of wireless beacons established at a merchant location and may be limited in range only to connect to communication device if communication device is located at the merchant location. Once connected connection information may be generated that may include an identifier for user communication device . After connection module receives an identifier from communication device connection module may communicate the connection information with the identifier to payment provider server for determination of a limited use digital letter of credit. Additionally connection module may cause wireless beacons to keep a communication channel open between communication device merchant device and or payment provider server for passing additional information such as the limited use digital letter of credit to merchant device and or obtaining a payment token from payment provider server when necessary.

In various embodiments wireless beacons includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with communication device merchant device and or payment provider server . Communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate with communication device and or merchant device using short range communications such as radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Merchant device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with communication device wireless beacons and or payment provider server . For example merchant device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOGGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a merchant device is shown the merchant device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one merchant device is shown a plurality of merchant devices may function similarly for example in possession of one or more merchants or merchant employees at a merchant location.

Merchant device of contains a sales module other applications a database and a communication module . Sales module and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments merchant device may include additional or different software as required.

Sales module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of merchant device to provide a convenient interface to permit a merchant for merchant device to enter view and or process items services user wishes to purchase. In this regard sales module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by merchant device that may be implemented as an application having a user interface enabling the merchant to enter the items user has selected for purchase e.g. through input by the merchant and or user scanning the items etc. . Sales module may further enable the merchant to view the items for purchase by user enter coupons and or discounts for the items edit the order including adding removing and or modifying items or other functions with regards the selected items services. Once the items have been arranged into an order for purchase by user a total may be calculated and a transaction may be engaged with user to complete payment for the selected items. Sales module may request payment covering the selected items from user . Thus sales module may receive a payment instrument from user to complete a transaction for the selected items. The payment instrument may correspond to cash payment cards checks and or payment accounts with payment provider server in various embodiments. The payment instrument may also correspond to a limited use digital letter of credit as discussed herein. Sales module may later e.g. asynchronously resolve payment for the transaction using the limited use digital letter of credit with payment provider server . Where the limitations of use of the limited use digital letter of credit are exceeded by the transaction the payment instrument may instead correspond to a payment token generated by payment provider server . Once a transaction is processed and or completed by sales module for the selected items by user a transaction history e.g. receipt may be generated and provided to one or more of user communication device and or payment provider server .

Merchant device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to merchant device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Merchant device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with item tag monitoring module sales module and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of merchant device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Database may also store user s information including check in information an identifier etc. for user . Database may include payment instruments past transaction histories expected checkout times and or other past information for user . Database may also store received information such as a limited use digital letter of credit and or a payment token.

Merchant device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with communication device wireless beacons and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with communication device and or wireless beacons using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment services and or processing for financial transactions on behalf of users including processing of received payment tokens for a transaction. In this regard payment provider server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with communication device wireless beacons and or merchant device to facilitate payment for a transaction. In one example payment provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. However in other embodiments payment provider server may be maintained by or include a credit provider financial services provider financial data provider and or other service provider which may provide payment services to user and or the merchant associated with merchant device .

Payment provider server of includes credit authorization module a transaction processing module other applications a database and a network interface component . Credit authorization module transaction processing module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware. In other embodiments payment provider server may include additional or different modules having specialized hardware and or software as required.

Credit authorization module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of payment provider server to access connection information generated by a connection between communication device and one or more of wireless beacons determine credit eligibility and or worthiness of user using an identifier in the connection information determine a limited use digital letter of credit using the credit eligibility and communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to communication device wireless beacons and or merchant device . In this regard transaction processing module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software to access the connection information for example from database . The connection information may include an identifier for user and or communication device . Using the identifier information for the user may be determined. For example the identifier may be used to access user information such as a name address or other identification information. The user information may further include at least one financial indicator of credit worthiness of user such as a credit rating available collateral available funds past transaction histories debts of user and assets of user . The financial indicator s may be used to determine an amount of credit to extend to user . Thus once the user information for user is accessed using the identifier credit authorization module may determine whether to extend credit to user and how much credit to extend to user .

Based on the amount of credit to extend to user a digital letter of credit for user may be determined. The digital letter of credit may also include limitations on use so that the digital letter of credit may only be utilized in conformity with one or more terms limiting the use of the digital letter of credit. Limitations on use of the digital letter of credit may include time limitations location limitations merchant with which the digital letter of credit may be utilized and or items that the digital letter of credit may be used to purchase. Once the limitations on use are determined a limited use digital of credit may be determined having the amount of credit and the limitations on use. The limited use digital letter of credit may be communicated to wireless beacons for communication to communication device . In other embodiments the limited use digital letter of credit may be communicated directly to communication device and or merchant device . Credit authorization module may further digitally sign the limited use digital letter of credit using an asymmetric key pair and provide a public key to communication device and or merchant device to authenticate the limited use digital letter of credit. User may then utilize the limited use digital letter of credit to provide payment to merchant device as discussed herein. Thus when the merchant associated with merchant device wishes to resolve the payment with payment provider server the merchant e.g. through merchant device may provide the limited use digital letter of credit to payment provider server with terms of the transaction e.g. a payment amount which may provide payment through transaction processing module . Where the transaction does not meet the terms of the limited use digital letter of credit user may request a payment token from transaction processing module as well.

Transaction processing module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of payment provider server to receive and or transmit information from communication device and or merchant device for processing and completion of one or more transactions initiated by user . In this regard transaction processing module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software to process a received transaction from communication device and or merchant device by receiving the transaction from communication device and or merchant device with a payment request for a payment for the transaction. The payment request may identify a limited use digital letter of credit or a payment token including a payment instrument and identification of the transaction and may be encrypted prior to transmission to transaction processing module to prevent unauthorized receipt of a payment instrument. Where the payment request identifies a limited use digital letter of credit transaction processing module may provide payment to the merchant associated with merchant device e.g. to a merchant account for the merchant . Transaction processing module may then require payment from user such as from a payment instrument stored to payment provider server and or a bill sent to user for payment.

Where user requires a payment token from transaction processing module the payment token may include information corresponding to user identifiers user financial information identifiers transaction information and or other identifiers. Additionally the payment token may include a payment amount and terms of payment for the transaction. Once received transaction processing module may utilize a payment account or financial information e.g. a payment instrument such as a credit debit card bank account etc. of user to render payment for the transaction. Transaction processing module may receive purchase authorizations in certain embodiments and process payments for transaction in accordance with the purchase authorizations. Payment may be made to merchant device using the payment instrument and the terms of the payment request. Additionally transaction processing module may provide transaction histories including receipts to communication device merchant device and or merchant server for completion and documentation of the financial transaction. Such transaction histories may be utilized to determine additional items required with future purchases by user and or other users.

In various embodiments payment provider server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to payment provider server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to user when accessing payment provider server . In various embodiments where not provided by credit authorization module and or transaction processing module other applications may include connection and or communication applications which may be utilized to communication information to communication device and or merchant device .

Additionally payment provider server includes database . As previously discussed user and or the merchant corresponding to merchant device may establish one or more payment accounts with payment provider server . Payment accounts in database may include user merchant information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. User and or the merchant may link to their respective payment accounts through a user merchant and or device identifier. Thus when an identifier is transmitted to payment provider server e.g. from communication device and or merchant device a payment account belonging to user and or the merchant may be found. Payment amounts may be deducted from one payment account and paid to another payment account. In other embodiments user and or the merchant may not have previously established a payment account and may provide other financial information to payment provider server to complete financial transactions as previously discussed. Database may further include information used by credit authorization module such as user information used to determine an amount of credit to extend to user and or user merchant location information used to determine limitation on use of a digital letter of credit.

In various embodiments payment provider server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate communication device wireless beacons and or merchant device over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

Environment includes a merchant location where users may visit in order to purchase items such as televisions computers and other electronics. Wireless beacon may be established at an entrance so that when users pass through entrance to shop at merchant location communication devices may pair with wireless beacon and generate connection information having an identifier for user respectively. For example when arriving at merchant location user in possession of communication device may have communication device connect with wireless beacon . The connection may establish connection information identifying user as located at merchant location. The connection information may be communicated to a payment provider server which may then determine a limited use digital letter of credit for user . Similarly limited use digital letters of credit may also be determined for users and when arriving at merchant location .

While shopping at merchant location user may view one or more of items that user may wish to purchase. User may have previously received a limited use digital letter of credit on arrival at merchant location through communication device . However the limited use digital letter of credit for user may have expired while shopping items or a selected item from items may not meet limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit. Thus user may require an updated or new limited use digital letter of credit or user may request a payment token to complete payment for the selected item using communication device . For example communication device may pair with wireless beacon again and request another limited use digital letter of credit if the previous letter of credit has expired. However if the limitations of use of a digital letter of credit provided to user are exceeded by the item user may be required to provide payment using another payment instrument and or payment token from the payment provider i.e. not using credit extended to user .

User is shown at a checkout where user may complete payment for an item by providing payment to merchant . User may have a valid limited use digital letter of credit which may cover payment for an item user wishes to purchase at checkout . Thus user may provide the limited use digital letter of credit to merchant . User may communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to merchant device using communication device . Such communications may utilize short range wireless communications between communication device and merchant device . The limited use digital letter of credit may also be communicated to merchant device with a local key allowing for authentication of the letter of credit. Merchant may then complete the transaction with user using the letter of credit and may later resolve payment for the transaction with a payment provider issuing the letter of credit. Merchant may asynchronously resolve the payment with the payment provider so that the transaction is quickly completed with user without the need for communication with the payment provider by merchant device . The payment provider may honor the payment amount in the letter of credit and may retrieve payment from user such as through a payment account or payment instrument held by the payment provider or issuing a bill to user

Communication device executes payment module having specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described herein in reference to . In this regard payment module displays one or more limited use digital letters of credit provided to a user not shown of communication device after determination of the limited use digital letter s of credit by payment provider server . Communication device may first connect with a wireless beacon on arrival at a merchant location to generate connection information having an identifier for the user communication device . The connection information may be communicated to payment provider server which executes credit authorization module having specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described herein in reference to . Thus credit authorization module includes an identifier from the connection information. Identifier may be utilized to determine credit worthiness such as information for a credit rating past transactions and payment account . Using credit worthiness credit authorization module may determine a letter of credit which may be communicated to communication device .

Payment module includes letter of credit which may include an amount of credit and limitations on use of letter of credit . Thus letter of credit includes amount of extended credit to the user and use limitation having limitations on use with a merchant a location a time and purchases . Payment module may further include information for connected device which may display devices and or beacons that communication device is connected with for use in obtaining letter of credit and or completing a transaction. Connected devices include beacons e.g. a wireless beacon and devices e.g. merchant device . Payment module may receive transaction information which may be processed by payment module to determine if letter of credit may be utilized for a transaction . Transaction includes items a total and a selected option for a payment method such as letter of credit and or payment account . In other embodiments merchant device may determine whether letter of credit may be utilized for transaction .

Merchant device executes a sales module having specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described herein in reference to . Sales module may be utilized to complete transaction with communication device for example using letter of credit . In this regard sales module includes transaction having items and a total . In order to complete transaction sales module may require a payment instrument to be provided by the user of communication device . Thus sales module further includes a selected payment method having letter of credit communicated by communication device to merchant device . Sales module may further process letter of credit to generate a processed status for completion of transaction .

At step connection information comprising an identifier for a user located at a merchant location is received by a network interface component wherein the first connection information is generated by a first connection between a communication device of the user and a wireless beacon established at the merchant location using short range wireless communications. The connection information may then be accessed by a credit authorization module comprising at least one hardware processor. User information comprising at least one financial indicator of credit worthiness for the user is accessed by the credit authorization module using the identifier at step . An amount of credit to extend to the user without utilizing a payment account of the user is determined using the at least one financial indicator of credit worthiness by the credit authorization module at step .

At step a limited use digital letter of credit for the user is generated by the credit authorization module using the amount of credit. The limited use digital letter of credit may be limited in use by an amount of time the limited use digital letter of credit is valid for a location for where the limited use digital letter of credit is valid a merchant with which the limited use digital letter of credit is valid and a type of purchase with which the limited use digital letter of credit is valid. The communication device may communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to a merchant device to process a payment for a transaction between the user and a merchant associated with the merchant device. The communication device may communicate the limited use digital letter of credit to the merchant device using short range wireless communications comprising one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication LTE Direct communication and WiFi communication Thus the merchant device may receive the payment for the transaction from a payment provider using the limited use digital letter of credit which may occur asynchronously from completing the transaction with the user. A transaction processing module may provide the payment to the merchant and resolve an amount for the payment with the user using at least one of a banking account of the user a payment card of the user and a payment account of the user with the payment provider.

The merchant device may determine whether the transaction exceeds limitations including not meeting conditions on use of the limited use digital letter of credit. For example the merchant device may process the transaction using the limited use digital letter of credit if the transaction does not exceed the limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit. However the merchant device may request a different payment instrument if the transaction exceeds the limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit. The different payment instrument may comprise at least one of a banking account of the user a payment card of the user and a payment account of the user with the payment provider. In such embodiments the transaction processing module may receive a request for a payment token from the communication device of the user and generates the payment token using at least one of the banking account the payment card and the payment account wherein the merchant device receives a payment for the transaction using the payment token. In other embodiments the communication device may receive a transaction between the user and a merchant from a merchant device for the merchant wherein the communication device determines whether the transaction exceeds limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit. The communication device may also request one of a new letter of credit and a payment token if the transaction exceeds the limitations on use of the limited use digital letter of credit.

The limited use digital letter of credit may be renewed if the limited use digital letter of credit expires. For example the credit authorization module may determine that the limited use digital letter of credit has expired based on limitation of use of the limited use digital letter of credit. The credit authorization module may then determine that the user is located at the merchant location in order to renew the limited use digital letter of credit. The credit authorization module may determine that the user is located at the merchant location by receiving second communication information comprising a second connection between the communication device of the user and the wireless beacon established at the merchant location using the short range wireless communications. After processing of a transaction using the limited use digital letter of credit one of the communication device and a merchant device at the merchant location may amend the limited use digital letter of credit after processing a payment to a merchant at the merchant location to generate a new letter of credit having a leftover amount after the payment to the merchant.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another communication device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

