---

title: Systems and methods for intelligently recording a live media stream
abstract: In an embodiment, a method includes initiating a mobile device operable to continuously capture a live media stream such that recording of the live media stream is deactivated. The method further includes refraining from recording the live media stream while recording of the live media stream is deactivated. In addition, the method includes monitoring environmental conditions for one or more preconfigured indicators that the mobile device has exited the defined physical area. Also, the method includes, responsive to detection of at least one of the one or more preconfigured indicators, determining to activate recording of the live media stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602761&OS=09602761&RS=09602761
owner: Enforcement Video, LLC
number: 09602761
owner_city: Allen
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150122
---
The present disclosure relates generally to media capture and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for intelligently recording a live media stream.

Capture devices such as wearable cameras and microphones may capture audio and or video for storage and retrieval. A significant portion of the captured data is often irrelevant. For example a video camera worn on a police officer s chest may capture lengthy video of a police car s dash or of a steering wheel. Storage operations and network transmissions involving the captured data are typically grossly inefficient due to the sheer volume of irrelevant data.

In an embodiment a method includes initiating a mobile device operable to continuously capture a live media stream such that recording of the live media stream is deactivated. The method further includes refraining from recording the live media stream while recording of the live media stream is deactivated. In addition the method includes monitoring environmental conditions for one or more preconfigured indicators that the mobile device has exited the defined physical area. Also the method includes responsive to detection of at least one of the one or more preconfigured indicators determining to activate recording of the live media stream.

In one embodiment a system includes at least one processor wherein the at least one processor is operable to implement a method. The method includes initiating a mobile device operable to continuously capture a live media stream such that recording of the live media stream is deactivated. The method further includes refraining from recording the live media stream while recording of the live media stream is deactivated. In addition the method includes monitoring environmental conditions for one or more preconfigured indicators that the mobile device has exited the defined physical area. Also the method includes responsive to detection of at least one of the one or more preconfigured indicators determining to activate recording of the live media stream.

In one embodiment a computer program product includes a non transitory computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code is adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes initiating a mobile device operable to continuously capture a live media stream such that recording of the live media stream is deactivated. The method further includes refraining from recording the live media stream while recording of the live media stream is deactivated. In addition the method includes monitoring environmental conditions for one or more preconfigured indicators that the mobile device has exited the defined physical area. Also the method includes responsive to detection of at least one of the one or more preconfigured indicators determining to activate recording of the live media stream.

In certain embodiments mobile devices such as wearable video cameras can be integrated with an in vehicle video system. The wearable video cameras can be triggered to begin recording at the same time the in vehicle video system begins recording. Typical triggers can include but are not limited to emergency light activation siren activation a detected speed in excess of a threshold excessive g force events e.g. collisions activation of a wireless microphone combinations of same and or the like. However the value of the video captured by the wearable video camera is often useless until a wearer e.g. a police officer exits the vehicle. For example while the wearer is inside the vehicle the camera may only be capturing an image of the vehicle s dash or steering wheel. Therefore in certain embodiments triggering the wearable video camera to record for example at the same time the in vehicle video camera system begins recording can result in unnecessary and uninteresting video. This video can result in increases to both system storage costs and the time to transfer the video out of the vehicle.

The present disclosure describes examples of intelligently recording a live media stream such as for example live video live audio combinations of same and or the like. A mobile device such as a wearable microphone or video camera can be used to capture the live media stream. In certain embodiments the mobile device or another computer system can monitor environmental conditions for preconfigured indicators that the mobile device has exited a defined physical area i.e. exit indicators . In an example recording of the live media stream can be activated in response to detection of an exit indicator. In another example recording of the live media stream can be deactivated in response to detection of a preconfigured indicator that the mobile device has entered the defined physical area i.e. an entry indicator . Advantageously in certain embodiments storage resources can be preserved by ensuring that a live media stream is only recorded when the mobile device is outside the defined physical area.

The IVMS is typically operable to receive process and store media such as audio and or video as it is received from the mobile device and or other media sources. An example of functionality that the IVMS can include is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 487 995 the 995 patent . The 995 patent is hereby incorporated by reference. In general the mobile device can capture the media and in some cases provide same to the IVMS in a continuous ongoing fashion. The vehicle computer system is typically integrated with a particular vehicle for example by a manufacturer of the vehicle. The vehicle computer system can perform among other functions self diagnostic and reporting functionality for the vehicle.

The IVMS mobile device and vehicle computer system may each include one or more portions of one or more computer systems. In particular embodiments one or more of these computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems may provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments encoded software running on one or more computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provide functionality described or illustrated herein.

The components of IVMS mobile device and vehicle computer system may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation IVMS mobile device and or vehicle computer system may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate IVMS mobile device and or vehicle computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In the depicted embodiment IVMS mobile device and vehicle computer system each include their own respective processors and memory and storage and interfaces and and buses and . Although a system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of IVMS mobile device and vehicle computer system will be discussed together while referring to the components of IVMS . However it is not necessary for these devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be a general purpose microprocessor and processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Processor may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory wireless networking functionality. Such functionality may include providing various features discussed herein. In particular embodiments processor may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by IVMS including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

As an example and not by way of limitation IVMS may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to IVMS where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate.

In particular embodiments interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication among IVMS mobile device vehicle computer system any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interface comprises one or more radios coupled to one or more physical antenna ports . Depending on the embodiment interface may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network with which the system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation the system can include or communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example the system can include or communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. IVMS may include any suitable interface for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and IVMS . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interfaces for them. Where appropriate interface may include one or more drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface may include one or more interfaces where appropriate.

Bus may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of IVMS to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Referring more specifically to the mobile device the mobile device can include a media capture component and a battery . The media capture component can include video capture hardware and or software e.g. a camera audio capture hardware and or software e.g. a microphone combinations of same and or the like. In a typical embodiment the media capture component enables the mobile device to capture the live media stream for processing and storage. The battery typically provides a limited power source to the mobile device .

Furthermore the IVMS and the mobile device can include a media processor and a media processor respectively collectively media processor s . The media processor s can include software and or hardware to process a live media stream and store the live media stream in memory e.g. in the storage or the storage . It should be appreciated that the media processor s are shown for illustrative purposes. In various embodiments the media processor and or the media processor can be omitted.

For example in an embodiment processing and storage of the live media stream can occur entirely on the IVMS . In these embodiments the media processor of the mobile device can be omitted. According to this example the media capture component of the mobile device can continuously capture and send the live media stream to the IVMS over the communication link . The media processor of the IVMS can receive process and store the live media stream in the storage in the fashion described above. An example of processing and storing the live media stream on the IVMS will be described with respect to .

In another example in an embodiment processing and storage of the live media stream can occur entirely on the mobile device . In these embodiments the media processor of the IVMS can be omitted. According to this example the media capture component of the mobile device can continuously capture the live media stream as described above. In addition the media processor can receive process and store the live media stream in the storage in the fashion described above. In that way in many cases the mobile device can operate independently of the IVMS and the vehicle computer system . In these cases the IVMS and or the vehicle computer system may also be omitted. An example of processing and storing the live media stream on the mobile device will be described with respect to .

In addition in some embodiments processing and storage of the media stream can occur on both the IVMS and the mobile device . In these embodiments the media processor and the media processor can perform their respective media processing functionality in parallel such that multiple copies of at least a portion of the captured media stream is maintained. In various cases the media processor can maintain a short term cache most recently captured media combinations of same and or the like.

In certain embodiments the media processor s can activate or deactivate recording of the live media stream based at least in part on whether the mobile device is deemed to be inside or outside the vehicle. In general the media processor s refrain from recording the live media stream while recording is deactivated. More specifically the media processor s can monitor environmental conditions for exit indicators i.e. one or more preconfigured indicators that the mobile device has exited the vehicle. In similar fashion the media processor s can monitor environmental conditions for entry indicators i.e. one or more preconfigured indicators that the mobile device has entered the vehicle. For example as shown the IVMS the mobile device and the vehicle computer system can include sensors and respectively collectively sensors .

The sensors can provide information usable by the media processor s to determine whether the mobile device is inside a defined physical area e.g. inside the vehicle . It should be appreciated that the sensors are illustrative of an example arrangement. In various embodiments the sensors can reside exclusively on the IVMS exclusively on the mobile device exclusively on the vehicle computer system etc. In general the sensors can reside on any combination of the IVMS the mobile device and the vehicle computer system . In some embodiments the media processor of the IVMS can monitor the sensors of the vehicle computer system over the communication link e.g. via an on board diagnostic OBD port of the vehicle computer system . In a similar manner in some embodiments the IVMS can monitor the sensors of the mobile device over the communication link . Examples of the sensors will be described in greater detail with respect to .

The dome light sensor can provide an indication of whether a vehicle s dome light has a status of active or on. In many cases the dome light sensor can be one of the sensors of the vehicle computer system . In some embodiments the dome light can be linked to a vehicle door status. For example in various embodiments the dome light status might be active whenever a vehicle door has a status of open. According to this example a dome light status of active can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device .

In general the media processor s e.g. the media processor can determine a status of the dome light when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators. In various cases the status can be determined by making an affirmative request to the vehicle computer system by waiting for an alert or trigger of a change to the dome light status combinations of same and or the like. In some embodiments if the status of the dome light is active the mobile device may be considered to have exited the vehicle.

The open door sensor can provide an indication of whether a vehicle door is open. In many cases the open door sensor can be one of the sensors of the vehicle computer system . In certain embodiments the open door sensor can monitor a specific door e.g. a driver s door a specific combination of doors e.g. any front door all doors of the vehicle etc. For example a vehicle door status of open for a driver side door can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device .

In a typical embodiment the media processor s e.g. the media processor can determine the vehicle door status when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators. In various cases the vehicle door status can be determined by making an affirmative request to the vehicle computer system by waiting for an alert or trigger of a change to the door open status e.g. a door open alert combinations of same and or the like. In some embodiments if the vehicle door status is open the mobile device may be considered to have exited the vehicle.

The seat weight sensor can provide an indication of a seat weight of at least one seat of the vehicle. For example the seat weight sensor can be positioned inside a driver side seat. In various cases the seat weight sensor can be one of the sensors of the IVMS one of the sensors of the vehicle computer system etc. In certain embodiments the media processor s e.g. the media processor can determine a seat weight for the driver side seat when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators.

In various cases the seat weight can be determined by making an affirmative request to the seat weight sensor by waiting for an alert or report from the seat weight sensor combinations of same and or the like. A seat weight of less than a configurable threshold e.g. seventy pounds can be an exit indicator e.g. an indication that the driver side seat is unoccupied . Similarly a seat weight of greater than or equal to the configurable threshold can be an entry indicator e.g. an indication that the driver side seat is occupied .

The seatbelt sensor can provide an indication of whether one or more seatbelts are locked or latched. For example in some embodiments the seatbelt sensor can be one of the sensors of the vehicle computer system . According to this example the media processor s e.g. the media processor can determine a status of a seatbelt of the vehicle such as a driver side seatbelt when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators.

In various cases the seatbelt status can be determined by making an affirmative request to the vehicle computer system by waiting for an alert or trigger from the seatbelt sensor combinations of same and or the like. A seatbelt status of unlocked i.e. unlatched that follows a previous seatbelt status of locked i.e. latched can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device . In similar fashion a seatbelt status of locked that follows a previous status of unlocked can be an entry indicator relative to the mobile device .

The RFID system typically distributes functionality between the IVMS and the mobile device . In general the RFID system can be used to determine whether the mobile device is in close proximity to the IVMS . In an example the RFID system can include an RFID reader on the IVMS e.g. as part of the sensors and an RFID tag on the mobile device e.g. as part of the sensors . According to this example the RFID reader of the IVMS can periodically transmit a radio signal to interrogate the RFID tag of the mobile device . Thereafter the RFID reader of the IVMS can determine whether the RFID tag is interrogated. In various embodiments this determination can serve as an indication of distance between the IVMS and the mobile device .

For example for a first radio signal or set of radio signals a determination may be made that the RFID tag is interrogated. Later with respect to one or more subsequent radio signals a determination may be made that the RFID is not interrogated. In certain embodiments the transition of the RFID tag from interrogated to not interrogated can be interpreted by the media processor of the IVMS to mean that the mobile device is not in close proximity to the IVMS . In that way the subsequent determination that the RFID tag is not interrogated can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device . Conversely a determination that the RFID tag is interrogated can be interpreted by the media processor of the IVMS to mean that the mobile device is in close proximity to the IVMS . Thus in some embodiments a determination that the RFID tag is interrogated can be an entry indicator relative to the mobile device .

The media processor can monitor the RFID system when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators. For example in certain embodiments the media processor can make affirmative requests to the RFID system or a component thereof e.g. the RFID reader wait for alerts or triggers from the RFID system or a component thereof combinations of same and or the like.

The motion detector can provide an indication of whether motion is detected inside the vehicle or in a portion of the vehicle that is visible to the motion detector e.g. a driver side region of the vehicle . For example the motion detector can be one of the sensors of the IVMS . In certain embodiments the media processor s e.g. the media processor can determine whether motion is detected in the interior of the vehicle when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators.

In various cases the determination of whether motion is detected can be accomplished by making affirmative requests to the motion detector by waiting for an alert or report from the motion detector combinations of same and or the like. For example in certain embodiments the fact that no motion is detected within a configurable period of time e.g. ten seconds can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device . By way of further example in certain embodiments the fact that motion is detected after a previous period during which no motion was detected can be an entry indicator relative to the mobile device .

The face detector can provide an indication of whether human presence is detected inside the vehicle or within a certain portion of the vehicle e.g. a driver side portion of the vehicle . In certain embodiments the face detector can include hardware e.g. a video camera and software that captures and analyzes a live video feed inside the vehicle. In certain embodiments the face detector is operable to identify faces for example within a camera field of view. For example the face detector can be one of the sensors of the IVMS . In certain embodiments the media processor s e.g. the media processor can determine when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators whether human presence is detected in the interior of the vehicle based at least in part on whether faces are detected.

In various cases the determination of whether human presence is detected can be accomplished by making affirmative requests to the face detector by waiting for an alert or report from the face detector combinations of same and or the like. For example in certain embodiments the fact that no faces are detected within a configurable period of time e.g. ten seconds can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device . By way of further example in certain embodiments the fact that at least one face is detected after a previous period during which no faces were detected can be an entry indicator relative to the mobile device .

The signal analyzer can measure power present in a radio signal received from the mobile device . In a typical embodiment the signal analyzer can be one of the sensors of the IVMS . For example the signal analyzer can evaluate a received signal strength indication RSSI for a wireless transmission received from the mobile device . In an example the mobile device can periodically transmit a radio signal to the IVMS . In some cases the mobile device may be prompted by the IVMS to transmit the radio signal. Thereafter the signal analyzer can determine a RSSI for the radio signal. In various embodiments this determination can serve as an indication of distance between the IVMS and the mobile device .

For example in certain embodiments a determination that the RSSI is less than a threshold value can be interpreted by the media processor of the IVMS to mean that the mobile device is not in close proximity to the IVMS . In that way the determination that the RSSI is less than the threshold value can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device . Conversely a determination that the RSSI is greater than or equal to the threshold value can be interpreted by the media processor of the IVMS to mean that the mobile device is in close proximity to the IVMS . Thus in some embodiments a determination that the RSSI is greater than or equal to the threshold value can be an entry indicator relative to the mobile device .

The media processor can monitor the signal analyzer when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators. For example in certain embodiments the media processor can make affirmative requests to the signal analyzer wait for alerts or triggers from the signal analyzer combinations of same and or the like.

The IR sensor system can transmit and measure reflection from IR beams. In a typical embodiment the IR sensor system can be one of the sensors of the mobile device . In general the IR sensor system can be used to determine whether the mobile device is inside the vehicle. In an example the IR sensor system can include an IR transmitter and an IR sensor. According to this example the IR transmitter can periodically transmit an IR beam. Thereafter an intensity of a reflection of the IR beam if any can be measured by the IR sensor. In various embodiments the measured intensity can serve as an indication of whether the mobile device is located inside the vehicle.

In certain embodiments the IR sensor system leverages the fact that as a general matter when the mobile device is located inside the vehicle the distance between the mobile device and any surface of the vehicle is typically on the order of several feet or less. Therefore in certain embodiments a measured intensity of less than a threshold value or the absence of any detectable reflection can be interpreted by the media processor of the mobile device to mean that the mobile device is outside the vehicle. In this manner a measured intensity of less than the threshold value or no measured intensity at all can be an exit indicator relative to the mobile device . Conversely a measured intensity of greater than or equal to the threshold value can be an entry indicator relative to the mobile device .

The media processor can monitor the IR sensor system when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators. For example in certain embodiments the media processor can make affirmative requests to the IR sensor system wait for alerts or triggers from the IR sensor system combinations of same and or the like.

The relative position monitor can sense changes to a relative position of the mobile device . In a typical embodiment the relative position monitor can be one of the sensors of the mobile device . In an example the relative position monitor can include an accelerometer gyroscope and or the like. In certain embodiments the relative position monitor determines an initial position upon a trigger condition such as for example activation of the IVMS initiation of the mobile device etc. Thereafter the relative position monitor can monitor the position of the mobile device relative to the initial position.

According to this example if the mobile device is determined to have a relative position that satisfies applicable criteria such as for example a certain minimal amount of positional change the media processor can interpret the relative position to be outside the vehicle. In that way the relative position can be an exit indicator with respect to the mobile device . The media processor can monitor the relative position monitor when monitoring for exit indicators and or entry indicators. For example in certain embodiments the media processor can make affirmative requests to the relative position monitor wait for alerts or triggers from the relative position monitor combinations of same and or the like.

With particular reference to in the illustrated embodiment the IVMS exists in either an inactive state or an active state . While in the inactive state the IVMS typically does not record media. In response to an activation trigger the IVMS can transition from the inactive state to the active state . The activation trigger can be for example a manual trigger by an operator or user an automated trigger in response to detecting an event e.g. emergency light activation siren activation a detected speed in excess of a threshold excessive g force events etc. and or the like. Examples of event detection are described in the 995 patent which patent is incorporated by reference above. Further examples are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 694 931 the 931 application . The 931 application is hereby incorporated by reference.

While in the active state the IVMS typically records media from one or more media sources which sources can include video cameras e.g. dashcams microphones and or the like. In addition the one or more media sources can in some cases include the mobile device . In a typical embodiment the IVMS can record a live media stream received from the mobile device . As will be described in greater detail with respect to the live media stream may be selectively received and recorded based on exit and or entry indicators.

In response to a deactivation trigger the IVMS can transition from the active state to the inactive state . The deactivation trigger can be for example a manual trigger by an operator or user a detected conclusion to the event e.g. emergency light deactivation siren deactivation an expiration of a period of time etc. and or the like.

With particular reference to in the illustrated embodiment the mobile device can exist in an inactive state a standby state or an active state . For illustrative purposes examples of automated transitions among the inactive state the standby state and the active state are described below. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments manual triggers by an operator can cause a transition to any state at any given time and or override any of the transitions described below.

In the inactive state the mobile device is typically dormant. Upon receipt of an IVMS activation notification the mobile device transitions to the standby state . In certain embodiments the IVMS activation notification is transmitted by the IVMS to the mobile device upon transition by the IVMS to the active state described above.

In the standby state the mobile device awaits an exit indicator . As described above with respect to in various embodiments the exit indicator can be detected by the media processor of the IVMS the media processor of the mobile device and or another component. For example the exit indicator can relate to information or outputs generated by any of the sensors described above. In embodiments in which the media processor detects the exit indicator the detection can be communicated to the mobile device over the communication link .

Upon detecting or being informed of the exit indicator the mobile device transitions from the standby state to the active state . If a deactivation notification is received by the mobile device the mobile device transitions from the standby state to the inactive state . In certain embodiments the IVMS deactivation notification is transmitted by the IVMS to the mobile device upon transition by the IVMS to the inactive state described above.

In the active state the mobile device continuously captures and transmits a live media stream to the IVMS for example over the communication link . In addition while in the active state the mobile device can await an entry indicator . As described above relative to in various embodiments the entry indicator can be detected by the media processor of the IVMS the media processor of the mobile device and or another component. For example the entry indicator can relate to information or outputs generated by any of the sensors described above. In embodiments in which the media processor detects the entry indicator the detection can be communicated to the mobile device over the communication link . Upon detecting or being informed of the entry indicator the mobile device transitions from the active state to the standby state . If a deactivation notification is received while the mobile device is in the active state the mobile device transitions from the active state to the inactive state .

In the standby state the mobile device awaits an exit indicator . As described above with respect to in various embodiments the exit indicator can be detected by the media processor of the IVMS the media processor of the mobile device and or another component. For example the exit indicator can relate to information or outputs generated by any of the sensors described above. In embodiments in which the media processor detects the exit indicator the detection can be communicated to the mobile device over the communication link .

Upon detecting or being informed of the exit indicator the mobile device transitions from the standby state to the active state . In the active state the mobile device continuously captures and stores a live media stream in the storage . In addition while in the active state the mobile device can await an entry indicator . As described above in relation to in various embodiments the entry indicator can be detected by the media processor of the IVMS the media processor of the mobile device and or another component. For example the entry indicator can relate to information or outputs generated by any of the sensors described above. In embodiments in which the media processor detects the entry indicator the detection can be communicated to the mobile device over the communication link . Upon detecting or being informed of the entry indicator the mobile device transitions from the active state to the standby state .

At block the mobile device is initiated. In some implementations the initiating can include powering on the mobile device . Alternatively or additionally the initiating can include transition of the mobile device to a standby state such as the standby state of or the standby state of . At block the media processor s monitor environmental conditions for an exit indicator. At decision block the media processor s determine whether an exit indicator has been detected. If not the process returns to block and proceeds as described above. Otherwise if it is determined at the decision block that an exit indicator has been detected the process proceeds to block .

At block the media processor s determine to activate recording of the live media stream. At block recording of the live media stream is activated. Thereafter the live media stream can be continuously recorded for example in any of the ways described above with respect to . At block the media processor s monitor environmental conditions for an entry indicator. At decision block the media processor s determine whether an entry indicator has been detected. If not the process returns to block and proceeds as described above. Otherwise if it is determined at the decision block that an entry indicator has been detected the process proceeds to block .

At block the media processor s determine to deactivate recording of the live media stream. At block recording of the live media stream is deactivated. Thereafter depending on implementation the IVMS and or the mobile device can refrain from transmitting and recording the live media stream. From block the process returns to block and proceeds as described above. In various embodiments the process can continue until terminated or suitable stop criteria is met.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially. Although certain computer implemented tasks are described as being performed by a particular entity other embodiments are possible in which these tasks are performed by a different entity.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

