---

title: RFID tag and reader authentication by trusted authority
abstract: A Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) reader containing a reader key authenticates an RFID tag containing a tag key by receiving a tag identifier from the tag; challenging the tag with a tag challenge; receiving a tag response based at least on the tag challenge and the tag key but not including the tag key; sending a second message including at least the tag identifier and the tag response to a verification authority; and receiving a reply from the verification authority. The reader and the verification authority may mutually authenticate each other before, during, or after the tag authentication process. The verification authority may notify a designated party if a response is incorrect.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501675&OS=09501675&RS=09501675
owner: IMPINJ INC.
number: 09501675
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151120
---
This application is a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 341 401 filed on Jul. 25 2014 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 396 889 filed on Aug. 23 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 866 594 issued on Oct. 21 2014 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 480 543 filed on Apr. 29 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 443 842 filed on Feb. 17 2011.

This application is also a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 341 504 filed on Jul. 25 2014 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 396 889 filed on Aug. 23 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 866 594 issued on Oct. 21 2014 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 480 543 filed on Apr. 29 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 443 842 filed on Feb. 17 2011.

This application is further a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 444 854 filed on Jul. 28 2014 which is a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 396 889 filed on Aug. 23 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 866 594 issued on Oct. 21 2014 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 480 543 filed on Apr. 29 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 443 842 filed on Feb. 17 2011.

The disclosures of the above patents patent applications and provisional applications are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In practice an RFID reader interrogates one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions.

A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave may respond by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag generates the transmitted back RF wave either originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a time a destination an encrypted message an electronic signature other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data it can learn about the item that hosts the tag and or about the tag itself.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna system a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the logical section may include a cryptographic algorithm which in many instances relies on one or more passwords or keys stored in tag memory. In earlier RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag can be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device such as a battery and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

Counterfeiting is a problem in many areas of global commerce. Many RFID enabled applications need to verify the authenticity of the RFID tags readers and system components used in the application. For example a retailer receiving a shipment of tagged items often needs to determine whether the tags and by implication the items to which the tags are attached are genuine or counterfeit.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Some embodiments are directed to RFID tag authentication. An RFID reader authenticates an RFID tag containing a key by challenging the tag with a challenge. The reader receives one or more responses from the tag including an identifier and an answer to the challenge and sends a message including the received identifier the challenge and the answer to a verification authority. The verification authority checks the authenticity of the tag s responses and transmits a reply to the reader. The reply includes an electronic signature from the verification authority. The reader validates the verification authority s reply by checking the electronic signature. In some embodiments the verification authority also or instead transmits a notification including an electronic signature to a designated party if the tag s responses are incorrect.

Some embodiments are directed to mutual authentication between an RFID reader and a verification authority. In these embodiments the reader may authenticate the verification authority and the verification authority may also authenticate the reader. The mutual authentication may involve a challenge response interaction may be based on some state or data shared between the reader and the verification authority or may involve electronic signatures. In some embodiments the reader and verification authority may set up an encrypted or authenticated communication channel after mutual authentication.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In some applications. RFID systems are called upon to ensure the authenticity of an item to which a tag is attached. The RFID tag may include an identifier ID such as but not limited to a tag identifier TID key identifier KID unique item identifier UII electronic product code EPC or a serialized trade identification number SGTIN . In typical applications each individual RFID tag or group of tags also will contain a secret or key which is typically not readable by an RFID reader but is known to a verification authority. The verification authority can determine which key a particular tag employs by using the ID as a table lookup or input to an algorithmic key generator.

To authenticate a tag the reader interrogates the tag to determine the tag s ID challenges the tag with a random number or string receives a response from the tag and then sends the ID challenge and response to the verification authority. In some applications each individual RFID tag or group of tags will contain a distinct key and the verification authority can determine which key a particular tag employs by using the ID as a table lookup or input to an algorithmic key generator. The tag computes its response from at least the challenge and the key typically using a cryptographic algorithm. In some applications the tag may add some tag generated randomness to the reader s challenge to enhance the security of the challenge response algorithm. Because the verification authority must be able to reconstruct the challenge that the tag used in its computations in these latter applications the tag either sends its tag generated randomness to the reader for relaying to the verification authority or provides sufficient information in its ID and response for the verification authority to determine the tag generated randomness algorithmically. In some applications to further enhance security the tag may encrypt its tag generated randomness in an Initial Value IV and send the IV to the reader for relaying to the verification authority. In yet other applications the verification authority will generate the challenge and send it to the reader for relaying to the tag.

The verification authority uses the challenge and its knowledge of the tag s key and cryptographic algorithm to confirm or refute the tag s response and thereby ascertain the tag s or item s authenticity. In some applications such as a consumer using an RFID enabled mobile phone to interrogate a product like a designer purse prior to purchase the verification authority will send a reply to the phone indicating whether the item is authentic or counterfeit. In other applications such as a pharmaceutical distributor using an RFID enabled handheld reader to interrogate a shipment such as a case of medicine the verification authority may send a notification to a designated party such as the distributor s security office or in some instances directly to the police in the event of counterfeit medicine.

To truly authenticate a tag the reader or designated party needs to know that the verification authority s reply or notification is genuine and has not been forged or altered. Said another way the entity receiving the reply or notification needs to be able to verify that the reply or notification is from a trusted verification authority and was not forged by an illegitimate verification authority or altered during transmission.

In some applications the verification authority may have a need to authenticate the reader that is itself attempting to authenticate a tag. For an example why suppose the converse that the verification authority accepted tag authentication requests from any reader. A counterfeiter could then manufacture counterfeit tags and prior to releasing the tags into the field test them by configuring an illegitimate reader to send a counterfeit tag ID challenge and response to the verification authority and thereby ascertain whether the verification authority accepts the counterfeit tags. To prevent counterfeiters from this and other potential abuses the verification authority may choose to require that the reader authenticate itself prior to responding. Similarly a reader may wish to authenticate a verification authority to ensure that it is not transmitting information to a counterfeit verification authority.

Accordingly embodiments are directed to authenticating RFID tags RFID readers verification authorities and corresponding responses from a verification authority. An RFID tag or reader includes a secret also known as a key which is known to the verification authority. An RFID reader authenticates an RFID tag by sending a tag identifier a tag challenge and a tag response to the tag challenge computed by the tag based on its secret to the verification authority for confirmation or refutation. Similarly the RFID reader and verification authority perform mutual authentication for example using challenge response or any other suitable authentication scheme. The mutual authentications may occur before or simultaneously with verifying the tag computations generated during tag authentication.

Reader and tag exchange data via wave and wave . In a session of such an exchange each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and so on.

Data exchange can be performed in a number of ways. Protocols are devised for readers and tags to exchange symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol for communicating can be a delimiter a calibration symbol and so on. Symbols can encode binary data such as 0 and 1 if desired. When symbols are processed internally by reader and tag they can be considered and treated as numbers having corresponding values and so on.

RFID tag can be a passive battery assisted or active tag. If RFID tag is a passive tag it is powered from wave .

RFID tag is formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. RFID tag includes an electrical circuit which is preferably implemented as an integrated circuit IC . IC is arranged on inlay .

RFID tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with the environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable antenna terminals not shown in .

The antenna may be made in a number of ways. In the example of the antenna is made from two distinct antenna segments which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of antenna segments. In some embodiments the antenna can comprise a single segment and different points of the single segment can be coupled to one or more of the antenna terminals of IC . For example the antenna can be a loop with its ends coupled to the IC terminals. It should be remembered that even a single antenna segment can behave like multiple segments at the frequencies of RFID wireless communication.

In operation a signal is received by the antenna and communicated to IC . IC both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. IC may respond by modulating the reflectance of the antenna which generates backscatter from wave transmitted by the reader. Coupling together and uncoupling the antenna terminals of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can a variety of other means.

In the embodiment of antenna segments are separate from IC . In other embodiments the antenna segments may be formed on IC . Furthermore an interface element may be used to couple the IC to the antenna segments not shown in .

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when RFID reader talks to RFID tag the communication session is designated as R T and when RFID tag talks to RFID reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while RFID reader talks during interval and talks while RFID reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual technical behavior during interval RFID reader talks to RFID tag as follows. According to block RFID reader transmits wave which was first described in . At the same time according to block RFID tag receives wave and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block RFID tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block RFID reader has no wave to receive from RFID tag .

During interval RFID tag talks to RFID reader as follows. According to block RFID reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW which can be thought of as a carrier signal that ideally encodes no information. As discussed before this carrier signal serves both to be harvested by RFID tag for its own internal power needs and also as a wave that RFID tag can backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block RFID tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block RFID tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter wave . Concurrently according to block RFID reader receives backscatter wave and processes it.

An order a timing and other parameters of RFID tag reader communications may be defined by industry and or government protocols also known as standards . For example the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz Gen2 Specification by EPCglobal Inc. is one such industry standard. The contents of the Gen2 Specification version 1.2.0 are hereby incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments one or more of the blocks or components of reader system may be implemented as integrated circuits. For example local block one or more of the components of local block and or one or more of the remote component may be implemented as integrated circuits using CMOS technology BJT technology MESFET technology and or any other suitable implementation technology.

Local block is responsible for communicating with the tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and its driver. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and or drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes waves received from the tags via antenna driver block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF wave to be transmitted to the tags via antenna driver block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Local processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by local processor . In some cases local processor may implement an encryption or authorization function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Local memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation nonvolatile memories NVM read only memories ROM random access memories RAM any combination of one or more of these and so on. These memories can be implemented separately from local processor or in an IC with local processor with or without other components. Local memory if provided can store programs for local processor to run.

In some embodiments local memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs and other data. Local memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC or TID codes instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna secret keys key pairs and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna driver block . Other components such as local memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a mere local communication link such as a USB. PCI and so on. In turn local block then includes a local network connection for communicating with communications network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected. Communications on the network can also or additionally be signed using an electronic signature to ensure the integrity of the sender and the network.

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can communicate with each other and with local block via communications network or via other similar networks using remote network connection s . Only one such connection is shown which is similar to local network connection .

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Remote processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor may also implement an encryption function similar to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Remote memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Remote memory may include a local database or a different database of a standards organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with commands tag profiles secret keys or the like similar to local memory .

Of the above described elements it may be advantageous to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Operational processing block includes those components that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of communications network that links remote network connection with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable etc. In addition operational processing block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna and cause antenna to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Operational processing block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that operational processing block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly operational processing block is location independent in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Operational processing block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

RFID reader system operates by operational processing block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by processing operational processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

An RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via air interface . It is noteworthy that air interface is really only a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Protocols as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen2 Specification also properly characterize that boundary as an interface.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges waveforms with RF front end module such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as a data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges data with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module which is also known as MAC layer module. In one embodiment. MAC layer module exchanges data packets with physical driver module . MAC layer module can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module . This module can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system . In some embodiments the one or more processors may perform operations associated with retrieving identification data from a tag challenging the tag and verifying the tag response through interaction with a verification authority. In some embodiments the one or more processors may verify an electronic signature create a tag challenge and verify a tag response.

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for transmitting RFID waveforms and in the other direction for receiving RFID waveforms. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

As mentioned previously embodiments are directed to a Radio Frequency Identification RFID system authenticating both an RFID tag and a verification authority to determine the legitimacy of the tag the object to which the tag is attached and or the verification authority. Embodiments additionally include programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is often implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

Embodiments furthermore include storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions data keys signatures and other data of a program made according to embodiments. A storage medium according to embodiments is a computer readable medium such as a memory and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory it can be implemented in a number of ways such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM Flash memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory and many others as will be known to those skilled in the art.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

In contrast the ID which may identify the tag an item to which the tag is attached or both is stored in a portion of the tag memory that is readable by an external device. For example the ID may include a tag identifier TID a key identifier KID a unique item identifier UII an electronic product code EPC a serialized trade identification number SGTIN or any other suitable identifier or identification code.

Tag memory portion as with memory portion is configured to store ID similar to ID in and be readable by an external device such as a reader. Tag memory portion can be further configured to be unwriteable write locked such that an external device cannot write to it thereby preventing damage to or loss of the ID .

Similarly tag memory portion is akin to memory portion in that it is configured to store TKEY similar to TKEY in and usually is unreadable by an external device. As with tag memory portion tag memory portion can also be configured to be unwriteable thereby preventing damage to or loss of the TKEY . In some embodiments ID and or TKEY may be encrypted.

At some point in time ID and TKEY were written into tag memory portions and respectively. For example a tag manufacturer may generate ID and write it into tag memory portion when the tag was manufactured or soon afterward. Similarly the tag manufacturer may write the TKEY into tag memory portion either at the same time as ID or at some other time. Alternatively the tag supplier verification authority or even another entity can perform the writing. Although tag memory portions and are shown as unwriteable write locked in the tag manufacturer or other entity may write the ID TKEY before rendering the tag memory portions unwriteable or may write the data in some other way e.g. via direct physical access to the memory portions .

In some embodiments a reader may be able to reconfigure the tag in order to replace the ID and or TKEY written in tag memory portions and with a different ID or TKEY. For example the tag memory portions may be configured to be unwriteable by readers without proper authorization but writeable by readers having proper authorization. Thus an authorized reader may be able to write a new ID and or TKEY into the tag memory portions .

The command and response signals in sequence assume that the reader and tag are using the Gen2 Specification communication protocol. However any suitable protocol or command sequence may be used. The particular order of the signals in sequence may vary and signals and reader tag operations may be performed in different orders merged enhanced eliminated and or spread across other signals operations.

The sequence begins with an optional tag selection where the reader selects one or more tags from a tag population for inventorying and or authentication. For example the reader may broadcast a select command to the tag population and tags in the population that meet one or more criteria in the select command may be selected.

Reader then performs an inventory to singulate an individual tag from the tag population or from within a group of selected tags if the reader performed optional tag selection . In some embodiments the reader performs the inventory according to the Query ACK sequence described in the Gen2 Specification. In the Gen2 Query ACK sequence a reader first transmits a Query QueryAdj QueryRep command. A tag that meets the criteria for responding may then reply with a 16 bit random pseudorandom number RN16 0. Upon receipt of the RN16 0 the reader transmits an Acknowledge command with the RN16 0 to the tag which may then respond with its EPC. The reader then transmits a REQRN command with the RN16 0 which requests a new RN16 from the tag for use as a tag handle. The tag then responds with a RN16 1 handle.

After performing the inventory the reader then performs a read in order to access and read the ID e.g. ID in stored on the tag if the ID is not the EPC which the tag had previously transmitted in inventory . Upon receiving the read command sent by the reader the tag transmits its stored ID to the reader.

Upon reading the tag ID in read the reader then challenges the tag in a challenge response step . In the challenge response step the reader may first request an initial value IV from the tag. The IV represents tag randomness used to enhance the security of challenge response step . In some embodiments the tag may generate the IV using a tag random number that may have been previously stored in the tag generated in situ or generated in situ and then stored in the tag. In some embodiments the tag may generate the IV using its TKEY. In some embodiments the tag may generate the IV by reading an IV that was previously stored in tag memory. After generating the IV the tag transmits it to the reader. In some embodiments the tag may encrypt the IV before transmission.

After receiving the optional IV the reader transmits a challenge to the tag containing a reader random number which may be encrypted . In some embodiments the reader generates the challenge based on the reader random number and the IV tag random number. Using a cryptographic algorithm the tag then generates and transmits a response back to the reader based on the received reader random number the tag random number and the stored TKEY e.g. TKEY in .

As mentioned above the commands and signals in sequence do not have to be performed in the particular order shown or even grouped as shown. The commands and signals may be separated combined or interspersed among each other. For example an interrogated tag may transmit its tag ID with its response to a reader challenge instead of providing its tag ID in inventory or read . The tag may transmit its tag ID with its response as consecutive messages or may concatenate the response with the tag ID for example by prepending the response with the tag ID appending the tag ID to the tag response or otherwise combining the tag ID and the response in the same message. As another example the reader may send the request for the IV during the optional tag selection . Because the select signal in tag selection is broadcast to a population of tags multiple tags may receive the reader s IV request. In response each tag that receives the IV request may generate its own IV and then store the IV in tag memory. The reader may then subsequently read each tag e.g. in read to retrieve the stored IV.

In some embodiments the reader may broadcast the challenge with the reader random number before the IV request or along with the IV request. Each tag that receives the challenge may generate or compute its own response based on the received reader random number its stored TKEY and its generated IV or the tag random number associated with the IV . At least one of the tags may then store its IV and its computed response in tag memory and the reader may then subsequently read the tag memory e.g. in read to retrieve the IV and computed response.

In some embodiments sequence may not include an explicit challenge response step because its constituent commands have been interspersed among the other commands in the sequence. A reader may choose to broadcast the IV request and or the challenge to multiple tags in the optional select in order to allow all of the tags that hear the broadcast to simultaneously generate their IV and compute their responses. In contrast to the challenge response step where each tag generates its IV and challenge response serially i.e. one tag after another enabling multiple tags to perform these operations in parallel is faster. Due to the time intensive nature of the cryptographic computations involved in generating IVs or challenge responses the time saved by allowing tags to compute in parallel instead of serially can be substantial.

Whereas challenge response step in sequence includes an IV in some embodiments step may not use or include an IV. In some embodiments a tag challenge response may include a command count e.g. a count from the reader indicating the number of commands it has transmitted or a count from the tag indicating the number of commands it has received and or a message authentication code e.g. an electronic signature . Other challenge responses may include more or fewer steps than the particular challenge response shown in sequence .

In some embodiments the reader may interact with a verification authority that has some knowledge about the interrogated tag s such as the TKEY and or the encryption algorithm s used by the one or more tags . The verification authority may be known to the reader a priori or the reader may query a network for the identity of an appropriate verification authority. In some embodiments a tag may store the identity of a verification authority suitable for verification and the reader may read the verification authority information from the tag.

After the reader has received a tag response in the challenge response step the reader may send the tag response the tag IV if any the original reader challenge and the tag ID received in read to the verification authority. The verification authority may then determine the TKEY and or the particular encryption algorithm used by that tag e.g. by looking it up based on the received tag ID and use the determined TKEY encryption algorithm along with the original reader challenge and tag IV if any to decrypt or verify the tag response. If the verification authority is able to decrypt verify the tag response then it may confirm the tag response and thereby corroborates the tag s or attached item s authenticity if the verification authority is unable to decrypt verify the tag response then may alert the reader and or a third party that the tag and or the attached item may be fake.

In some embodiments the verification authority may generate the challenge and send it to the reader for transmission to the tag. In this case the reader may not transmit the original reader challenge back to the verification authority along with the tag response tag IV and the tag ID because the verification authority already knows the challenge. Optionally the verification authority may generate and provide a random number e.g. the reader random number or an entirely different random number for the reader to use to generate the challenge.

The reader then transmits the tag identifier the tag challenge the tag response and optionally any indicators of tag generated randomness e.g. a tag IV to a verification authority over one or more networks . The verification authority stores or has access to information about the tag such as its stored secret and or the encryption algorithm it uses. Verification authority then uses its information the received tag identifier tag challenge and tag response to determine if the tag is authentic. For example in one embodiment the verification authority may use the received tag identifier to find and access a local copy of the tag s stored secret key compute a response from the secret key and the received tag challenge and compare the computed response with the actual received tag response . If the two responses match then the tag is authentic and if the responses do not match then the tag is not authentic. The verification authority may then optionally send a message to the reader via network s confirming or refuting the authenticity of the tag or an item it is attached to .

In some embodiments the message transmitted by the reader to the verification authority may include the physical location of the reader when the challenge was issued to the tag . The message may also include a reader identifier and or may be signed with a reader electronic signature.

The verification authority may transmit a notification to one or more designated parties via network s indicating whether the authenticity of tag was confirmed or refuted. For example a pharmaceutical distributor using an RFID enabled handheld reader to interrogate a shipment such as a case of medicine may utilize a verification authority which may send the reply to a designated party such as the distributor s security office or in some instances directly to the police in the event of counterfeit medicine.

In some embodiments the verification authority may transmit a message to the reader if the authenticity of the tag is confirmed or refuted. In other embodiments the verification authority may only transmit a message if tag authenticity is confirmed if it is refuted or may not transmit a message to the reader at all. The verification authority may also transmit a notification to a designated party or parties if the authenticity of the tag is confirmed or refuted only if tag authenticity is confirmed or only if tag authenticity is refuted.

In some embodiments message and notification may be electronically signed by the verification authority . For example the verification authority may compute an electronic signature based on the message notification to be transmitted a key or secret associated with the verification authority and a cryptographic algorithm and attach the computed electronic signature to the message notification. When an entity e.g. reader or designated party receives the message notification it may use the electronic signature to validate the message notification by determining a if the message notification actually came from the verification authority and b if the message notification was altered during transmission from the verification authority. In one embodiment the receiving entity may perform these determinations using a public key related to the private key secret used by the verification authority to compute the electronic signature .

Other authentication schemes may also or instead be used for verification authority authentication and or reader authentication . In some embodiments the reader and the verification authority may have some shared state or data and each entity may authenticate the other entity by determining whether the other entity knows the shared state or data. For example the reader or the verification authority may know or have access to a sequence of tokens or numerical values and may determine that the other entity is authentic if the other entity provides the appropriate next element in the sequence during authentication or along with another message. In some embodiments the reader and or the verification authority may exchange electronically signed messages as part of the authentications or may electronically sign messages and or messages . The electronic signatures may be based on symmetric e.g. secret key or asymmetric e.g. private public key pair schemes. Each of the reader and the verification authority may have knowledge of the appropriate secret or public key and may be able to verify that the electronically signed messages are authentic.

Reader and verification authority may perform authentications and before after or in parallel with authentication of a tag. For example reader may transmit message requesting authentication of tag after authentication or as part of authentication . Verification authority in turn may perform the tag authentication as described above and transmit a tag confirmation refutation message to reader after authentication . In some embodiments verification authority may wait to perform the tag authentication or to transmit message until authentication has been completed and may not perform the tag authentication or transmit message if reader is not authenticated. Verification authority may even transmit a false tag confirmation refutation message if the reader is determined to not be authentic and then optionally alert a third party of the not authentic reader. In some embodiments reader and verification authority may use an encrypted and or authenticated communication channel instead of or in addition to performing authentications and and may route subsequent messages e.g. messages and through the secure channel. For example reader and verification authority may create a secure channel using a cryptographic protocol such as Secure Sockets Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS and route subsequent messages through the secure channel.

In some embodiments verification authority may transmit a tag confirmation refutation message if tag authenticity is confirmed if it is refuted or may not transmit a tag confirmation refutation message to the reader at all.

In diagrams and the verification authority may transmit a notification to one or more designated parties via network s indicating whether the authenticity of reader and or tag was confirmed or refuted. As described in the example above a pharmaceutical distributor using an RFID enabled reader to interrogate a case of medicine may use a verification authority which may send the reply to a designated party such as the distributor s security office or in some instances directly to the police in the event of counterfeit medicine. The verification authority may transmit a notification to a designated party or parties if the authenticity of the tag reader is confirmed or refuted only if tag reader authenticity is confirmed or only if tag reader authenticity is refuted.

As shown in diagrams and the verification authority communicates with the reader and the designated party over one or more networks . The network s may be available in real time meaning that an entity can engage with another entity on the network on a message by message basis or the network s may be non real time meaning that an entity stores or buffers its messages and later transmits them to other entities when the network is available. Of course entities may also store and later transmit messages to other entities on a network that is available in real time.

In some embodiments the reader may store responses from multiple tags before transmitting one or more of the responses to the verification authority . In this embodiment the reader may configure its transmissions to the verification authority to take advantage of batch transmission. If the reader stores responses from multiple tags to a single challenge the reader may first transmit a subset one or more of the stored responses but only one copy of the challenge to the verification authority . Subsequently the reader may transmit more of the stored responses but no further challenges to the verification authority .

The steps described in processes and are for illustrative purposes only. RFID tag and reader authentication by a verification authority may be implemented using additional or fewer steps and in different orders using the principles described herein.

More particularly utility may cause a tag to respond to a reader command providing its stored secret or key and also respond to a reader challenge with a challenge response which is used by the reader to authenticate the tag by sending a message including an identifier a challenge and a response from the tag to a verification authority receiving a reply from the verification authority including an electronic signature and validating the reply using the electronic signature from the verification authority.

Architecture additionally includes an interface converter and an agent . Embodiments also include methods of operation of interface converter . Interface converter enables agent to control utility . Interface converter is so named because it performs a conversion or a change as will be described in more detail below. Agent interface converter and utility can be implemented in any way known in the art. For example each can be implemented in hardware middleware firmware software or any combination thereof. In some embodiments agent is a human.

Between interface converter agent and utility there are respective boundaries and . Boundaries and are properly called interfaces in that they are pure boundaries as is the air interface described above in relation to .

In addition it is a sometimes informal usage to call the space between boundaries and which includes interface converter an interface . Further it is common to designate this space with a double arrow as shown with an understanding that operations take place within the arrow. So although interface is located at a boundary between agent and utility it is not itself a pure boundary. Regardless the usage of interface is so common for interface converter that this document sometimes also refers to it as an interface. It is clear that embodiments of such an interface can be included in this invention if they include an interface converter that converts or alters one type of transmission or data to another as will be seen below.

Agent can be one or more architecture layers. For example agent can be something which a programmer may program. In alternative embodiments where agent is a human interface converter can include a screen a keyboard etc. An example is now described.

Returning to one way interface converter can be implemented is as a software Application Programming Interface API . This API may control or provide inputs to an underlying software library.

Communications can be made between agent interface converter and utility . Such communications can be as input or can be converted using appropriate protocols etc. These communications may encode commands data or any other suitable signal s . In some embodiments these communications can include one or more of the following a high down communication HDNT from agent to interface converter a low down communication LDNT from interface converter to utility a low up communication LUPT from utility to interface converter and a high up communication HUPT from interface converter to agent . These communications can be spontaneous or in response to another communication in response to an input or an interrupt or in response to any suitable signal or condition.

In certain embodiments communications HDNT and LDNT include commands for ultimately controlling utility . These commands may control utility in any number of ways. For example one or more commands may install utility or just a feature of it. The installation may be performed by spawning downloading or any other suitable installation method. Other ways in which commands may be used to control utility include configuring enabling disabling or operating utility or just a feature of it. These commands can be standalone or can carry parameters such as data instructions to be stored by tags etc. In some embodiments interface converter can convert these commands to a format suitable for utility .

In some embodiments communications HUPT and LUPT include data. The data may indicate the success or failure of executing an operation. The data can also include tag data which can be both codes read from tags and data about reading tags such as time stamps date stamps RSSI IVs responses etc. . In some embodiments interface converter can convert the data to a format suitable for agent including in some cases aggregating filtering merging or otherwise altering the format or utility of the data.

It should be noted that what passes across a single pure boundary is unchanged by the mere definition of a pure boundary . However signals or communications passing through interface converter may be changed. More particularly high down communication HDNT may have encoding similar to or different from low down communication LDNT. In addition low up communication LUPT may have encoding similar to or different from high up communication HUPT. If encoding between signals communications is different the difference can be attributed to interface converter which performs a suitable change or conversion of one communication to another. The interface converter may perform changes or conversions in order to expose the functionality of utility to agent and vice versa. In some embodiments a command is converted but a parameter is passed along without being converted. What is not converted at one module may be converted at another. Such modules taken together can also form an interface converter according to embodiments.

Agent interface converter and utility can be implemented as part of a reader or as a different device. In embodiments where the agent interface converter and utility are implemented as part of a reader suggests a scheme where agent interface converter and utility can be implemented in connection with respective reader modules that are suitable depending on the requirements.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented according to embodiments formed individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . Where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member.

