---

title: Thermoplastic flashing laminate
abstract: A flashing laminate includes a non-reinforced thermoplastic sheet having a bottom surface, a first longitudinal edge, and a second longitudinal edge. The flashing laminate also includes an adhesive layer on a longitudinally extending portion of the bottom surface adjacent to one of the longitudinal edges. In one or more embodiments, the laminate also includes a release liner positioned over the adhesive tape.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09404268&OS=09404268&RS=09404268
owner: Firestone Building Products Co., LLC
number: 09404268
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150803
---
This application is a Divisional Application of U.S. Non Provisional Ser. No. 12 878 191 filed on Sep. 9 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 240 691 filed on Sep. 9 2009 which are incorporated herein by reference.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relate to a non reinforced thermoplastic flashing laminate having a pre applied adhesive. More particularly the non reinforced thermoplastic flashing laminate includes an adhesive tape pre applied to an edge portion of one surface of the laminate.

The construction industry commonly uses single ply membranes to provide a waterproof barrier on flat or low slope roofs. It is prohibitively expensive and difficult to produce and transport a single membrane that is sized to cover an entire roof surface thus a plurality of individual membranes are provided and oriented in an overlapping arrangement. The overlapping portions or splices of these individual membranes must be secured together to ensure that the plurality of membranes form a single waterproof surface. In addition the outer edges of the membranes adjacent to the roof edge as well as edges of the membrane surrounding objects on the roof surface must be sealed in some manner to ensure that water does not intrude beneath the membranes.

In many cases flashing is used to seal the edges of the roofing membranes. The flashing is similar to the single ply membranes used to cover the roof surface but is provided in narrow strips and does not include reinforcements such as a mesh fabric which is provided in the membranes. Flashing like the roofing membranes may be provided as a thermoplastic material or a thermoset material. Thermoplastic flashings are capable of being heat welded to other thermoplastic materials whereas thermoset materials require an adhesive bonding.

Both thermoplastic and thermoset flashings are available with or without a pre applied adhesive. Thermoplastic flashings provided without an adhesive may be heat welded to other thermoplastic materials or may be adhered to other surfaces with adhesive bonding agents. Thermoset flashing provided without adhesive is adhered to other surfaces including roofing membranes by adhesives provided on site.

A common occurrence in roofing systems is the need to adhere flashing on one side to a thermoplastic membrane and on another side to a metal or other non heat weldable surface. The non heat weldable surface may include an edge metal flashing Gravel Stop available under the trade names Firestone UNA Edge Firestone Drip Edge or Firestone Gravel Stop Firestone . The non heat weldable surfaces may also include a welded curb flange flue flanges or any other metal flanged penetrations. In addition the non heat weldable surface may be a thermoset membrane. Where a thermoplastic flashing is provided with a pre applied adhesive on one surface the adhesive binds the flashing both to the thermoplastic membrane as well as the non heat weldable metal surface. Where a thermoset flashing is provided without a pre applied adhesive the flashing must be secured to both the thermoplastic membrane and the metal surface by an adhesive applied on site.

The ability to heat weld the thermoplastic flashing to the thermoplastic roofing membrane is advantageous in that it provides an excellent seal against water infiltration. Thus a thermoplastic flashing without a pre applied adhesive is attractive in that respect. However the need to apply an adhesive on site between the thermoplastic flashing and the metal surface increases the labor time and cost involved in installation. Furthermore conventional thermoplastic flashing assemblies require a termination bar or counter flashing at the edge of the thermoplastic flashing to provide a watertight seal which is not provided by the bonding adhesive.

Thus there exists a need in the art for a thermoplastic flashing laminate that is capable of providing a strong seal between a thermoplastic roofing membrane and a metal surface while reducing the labor and costs involved in installation.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide a flashing laminate including a thermoplastic sheet having a bottom surface a first longitudinal edge and a second longitudinal edge and an adhesive layer on a longitudinally extending portion of the bottom surface adjacent one of the first longitudinal edge and the second longitudinal edge.

One or more embodiments of the present invention also provides a roofing assembly including a thermoplastic roofing membrane having a top surface and an outer edge portion a non heat weldable surface adjacent the outer edge portion of the roofing membrane and a flashing laminate including a non reinforced thermoplastic sheet having a bottom surface a first longitudinal edge and a second longitudinal edge and a pre applied adhesive layer on a longitudinally extending portion of the bottom surface adjacent one of the first and second longitudinal edges wherein the flashing laminate is heat welded to the outer edge portion of the roofing membrane and adhered to the non heat weldable surface by the adhesive layer.

One or more embodiments of the present invention also provides a method of installing flashing laminate between a thermoplastic roofing membrane and a non heat weldable surface the method comprising providing a flashing laminate having a non reinforced thermoplastic sheet with a bottom surface a first longitudinal edge and a second longitudinal edge and adhesive layer on a longitudinally extending portion of the bottom surface adjacent the second longitudinal edge and a release liner positioned over the adhesive layer heat welding the bottom surface of the thermoplastic sheet to the thermoplastic roofing membrane along the first longitudinal edge applying a primer to the non heat weldable surface and allowing the primer to dry removing the release liner from the adhesive layer and contacting the adhesive layer to the primed non heat weldable surface.

Referring now to a thermoplastic flashing laminate is shown and generally is indicated by the numeral . Thermoplastic laminate flashing also referred to as laminate includes a thermoplastic sheet having a top surface and a bottom surface . In one or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet may be a non reinforced thermoplastic sheet meaning that it is devoid of any fabric reinforcement or mesh scrim. In one or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet also includes a first longitudinal edge and a second longitudinal edge positioned opposite first longitudinal edge . Laminate may also include an adhesive tape positioned on a portion of bottom surface of thermoplastic sheet and extending longitudinally adjacent a longitudinal edge of the thermoplastic sheet. While adhesive tape is shown in adjacent second longitudinal edge it should be appreciated that adhesive tape may alternately be provided adjacent first longitudinal edge . Adhesive tape may be factory applied or factory laminated to thermoplastic sheet .

In one or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet is a narrow strip of a water resistant single ply membrane. In certain embodiments thermoplastic sheet may be TPO based. In other embodiments thermoplastic sheet may be PVC based. Thermoplastic sheet by virtue of its thermoplastic characteristics is capable of being heat welded to another thermoplastic surface.

In one or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet may have a thickness of between approximately 0.010 and 0.100 inches in other embodiments between approximately 0.020 and 0.080 inches and in other embodiments between approximately 0.40 and 0.60 inches. In or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet may have a thickness of approximately 0.050 inches.

In one or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet may have a width or distance between first longitudinal edge and second longitudinal edge of between approximately 0.1 feet and 8.0 feet in other embodiments a width of between approximately 1.0 feet and 4.0 feet in still other embodiments a width of between approximately 1.5 feet and 2.5 feet and in yet other embodiments a width of approximately 2.0 feet. In one or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet may have a length in the longitudinal direction of between approximately 10 and 150 feet and in other embodiments between approximately 50 and 100 feet. In one or more embodiments thermoplastic sheet may have a length of approximately 50 feet. In other embodiments thermoplastic sheet may have a length of approximately 100 feet.

In one or more embodiments adhesive tape extends along the entire longitudinal length of thermoplastic sheet . The term adhesive tape is used herein in a manner consistent with its usage in the art and refers to any adhesive extrudate known to persons skilled in the art. The adhesive tape may include conventional adhesive tapes including those that have EPDM and or butyl rubber. Useful adhesive tapes are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 120 869 5 888 602 5 859 114 5 733 621 5 612 141 5 563 217 5 545 685 5 504 136 4 932 171 4 855 172. 5 095 068 and 5 242 727 which are incorporated herein by reference. Useful tapes are commercially available including those available under the trade names PLIOSEAL Ashland 510 Adco 505 Adco 610 Adco Pressure Sensitive SecurTape Carlisle or QUICKSEAM Firestone .

In one or more embodiments adhesive tape has a thickness of between approximately 0.020 and 0.080 inches in other embodiments between approximately 0.040 and 0.050 inches and in other embodiments a thickness of approximately 0.045 inches. In or more embodiments adhesive tape has a width of between approximately 2.0 and 12.0 inches in other embodiments between approximately 5.0 and 8.0 inches and in other embodiments a width of approximately 5.25 inches. The length of adhesive tape varies depending upon the length of thermoplastic sheet .

In or more embodiments a release liner is provided over adhesive tape until immediately prior to installation of laminate . Release liner may include a thin film that the adhesive tape may form a temporary bond with but which bond can be readily broken by applying minimal tension. In one or more embodiments release liner may include a paper or cellulosic structure coated with a polymeric coating. In other embodiments release liner may include a homogeneous polymeric structure for example the release liner may include a polyester or polyolefin e.g. polypropylene film. Release liner may advantageously provide protection to adhesive tape during storage or shipment.

With reference now to a portion of a roofing assembly is shown the roof assembly being generally indicated by the numeral . Roofing assembly includes a thermoplastic roof membrane and an edge metal flashing gravel stop both positioned on a roof surface . In one or more embodiments thermoplastic roofing membrane may be made of a TPO based material. In other embodiments thermoplastic roofing membrane may be made of a PVC based material. In any case thermoplastic roofing membrane is capable of being heat welded to another thermoplastic surface.

In one or more embodiments edge metal flashing is positioned over an edge portion of thermoplastic roofing membrane . In one or more embodiments edge metal flashing may be made of metal. In other embodiments edge metal flashing may be made of plastic or other non heat weldable materials. While the embodiment shown in depicts an edge metal flashing it is contemplated that laminate may be used to form a seam between thermoplastic roofing membrane and any non heat weldable surface including for example other metal surfaces or thermoset membranes. For example laminate may be used to form a water impervious seam between thermoplastic roofing membrane and an edge metal flashing extending around the edge of a roof surface.

Thermoplastic flashing laminate as shown in is heat welded to thermoplastic roofing membrane . Thus a watertight seal is formed between non reinforced thermoplastic sheet and thermoplastic roofing membrane . Laminate is also secured to edge metal flashing by adhesive tape . Thus a watertight seal is formed between non reinforced thermoplastic sheet and edge metal flashing by virtue of adhesive tape . As can be seen thermoplastic flashing laminate allows for the creation of an effective seal around the edge of thermoplastic roofing membrane in applications where it is also necessary to adhere laminate to a non heat weldable material. Notably no termination bar or counter flashing is required at the edge of non reinforced thermoplastic sheet due to the inclusion of the factory laminated adhesive tape .

In one or more embodiments the method of installing thermoplastic flashing laminate first includes the step of providing a thermoplastic flashing laminate having a non reinforced thermoplastic sheet as well as an adhesive tape on a portion of the bottom surface thereof. In one or more embodiments portion of the bottom surface of the thermoplastic sheet not having an adhesive tape thereon is then heat welded to a thermoplastic roofing membrane to create a watertight seal therebetween.

In one or more embodiments a primer is then applied to a non heat weldable surface to which the laminate is to be adhered. A flash off period may be required to allow the primer to dry. In one or more embodiments a release liner is then removed from the adhesive tape of the laminate. In one or more embodiments the adhesive tape is then placed in contact with the primed area of the surface to which the laminate is to be adhered and pressure is applied to form an adhesive bond between the laminate and the non heat weldable surface.

Various modifications and alterations that do not depart from the scope and spirit of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art. This invention is not to be unduly limited to the illustrative embodiments set forth herein.

