---

title: Systems and methods for device detection and authorization in a IOT framework
abstract: Provided herein are a method, a device, and a computer-readable medium operable to perform a method of automatically admitting a device to a network. The method can include receiving, from the one or more authorized devices in the network, first data that is associated with one or more sensing modalities, wherein the one or more sensing modalities are detected by the one or more of the one or more of the authorized devices during a defined time window; identifying a new device to be admitted to the network; constructing a time sequence of proximity events of the new device, within the defined time window, based on the first data; determining that the time sequence of the proximity events matches an expected time sequence of expected of proximity events; and admitting the new device to the network based on the determining.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633197&OS=09633197&RS=09633197
owner: Verisign, Inc.
number: 09633197
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150306
---
The use of the Internet for purposes that extend beyond the current model of Web browsers interacting with Websites is growing rapidly. In particular many devices are now being exposed on the Internet so as to enable interactions with those devices from devices and applications that are also connected to the Internet. As a result of this increasing usage of the Internet for interaction with connected devices commonly called the Internet of Things IOT there is a growing demand for technology that enables these interactions to be performed securely in a way that protects the privacy of the data being exchanged in the interactions.

In some aspects a method for automatically admitting a device to a network is provided. The method can comprise receiving from the one or more authorized devices in the network first data that is associated with one or more sensing modalities wherein the one or more sensing modalities are detected by the one or more of the one or more of the authorized devices during a defined time window identifying a new device to be admitted to the network constructing a time sequence of proximity events of the new device within the defined time window based on the first data determining that the time sequence of the proximity events matches an expected time sequence of expected of proximity events and admitting the new device to the network based on the determining.

The method can further comprise receiving from the new device second data associated with the one or more sensing modalities associated with the new device during the defined time window. The time sequence of proximity events of the new device can comprise the second data. Constructing the time sequence of proximity events of the new device can further comprise determining a path through a physical location associated with the network wherein a physical location of the one or more authorized devices in the network forms the path. The determining the path can be based on the first data and the second data. The one or more modalities can comprise one or more of temperature visual audio heat motion particulate concentration etc.

The method can further comprise determining after a time period that the new device has not remained in proximity to the physical location of the network and removing the new device from the network.

The determining the path can comprise comparing a portion of the second data from the new device to a portion of the first data from one of the one or more authorized devices and determining based on the comparison a location of the new device relative to the one of the one or more authorized devices.

The identifying the new device to be admitted to the network can further comprise receiving a network discovery signal from the new device and providing an activation signal to the one or more authorized device to enter into a data capture mode.

The first data can comprise individual sensing data from the one or more authorized devices. The individual sensing data can comprise one or more of time value a crypto key token MAC etc that a particular sensing data was acquired.

The method can further comprise ranking the one or more authorized devices based on a characteristic of the one or more devices and assigning a weighting factor based on the ranking where authorized device with a higher rank are assigned a higher weighting factor wherein the determining that the time sequence of the proximity events matches the expected time sequence of expected of proximity events is based on the weighting factor that is assigned. The characteristic can comprises a number of different sensing modalities an authentication with a trusted entity.

The determining that the time sequence of the proximity events matches the expected time sequence of expected of proximity events can be based on a predetermined matching threshold of corroborating authorized devices. The determining that the time sequence of the proximity events matches the expected time sequence of expected of proximity events can be based on proximity information received using a near field communication protocol between the new device and one of the one or more authorized devices.

In some aspects a device is provided for automatically admitting a device to a network. The device can comprise a memory containing instructions and at least one processor operably connected to the memory the executes the instructions to perform operations comprising receiving from the one or more authorized devices in the network first data that is associated with one or more sensing modalities wherein the one or more sensing modalities are detected by the one or more of the one or more of the authorized devices during a defined time window identifying a new device to be admitted to the network constructing a time sequence of proximity events of the new device within the defined time window based on the first data determining that the time sequence of the proximity events matches an expected time sequence of expected of proximity events and admitting the new device to the network based on the determining.

In some aspects a computer readable storage medium is provided comprising instructions for causing one or more processors to perform a method the method of automatically admitting a device to a network comprising receiving from the one or more authorized devices in the network first data that is associated with one or more sensing modalities wherein the one or more sensing modalities are detected by the one or more of the one or more of the authorized devices during a defined time window identifying a new device to be admitted to the network constructing a time sequence of proximity events of the new device within the defined time window based on the first data determining that the time sequence of the proximity events matches an expected time sequence of expected of proximity events and admitting the new device to the network based on the determining.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present teachings are described by referring mainly to examples of various implementations thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present teachings. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific examples of various implementations. Logical and structural changes can be made to the examples of the various implementations without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present teachings is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

The Internet utilizes communication processes such as Domain Naming System DNS related standards that can be leveraged in a number of ways to support data communications device discovery and privacy protection. Aspects of the present disclosure are related to an Internet of Things IOT service. According to aspects the IOT service enables interactions between entities on the Internet and IOT capabilities many of these incorporating new uses of DNS related processes. The IOT service includes a bundle of services that allow IOT devices to be registered authenticated and securely communicate with consuming entities and users. The IOT service utilizes DNS processes and services to register and authenticate the IOT devices. In addition to capabilities based on new techniques of leveraging existing Internet related processes new capabilities can be defined that would extend those standards or provide capabilities that are not addressed by standards. The combination of these capabilities meets commonly found requirements for IOT security privacy communications and data processing.

As illustrated the IOT environment can include a number of IOT devices . The IOT devices can be any type of electronic device that is capable of communicating with other electronic devices. For example the IOT devices can include a wide variety of devices such as conventional computing device smart phones appliances e.g. washer dryers that utilize network communications smart thermostat systems etc. sensors e.g. remote monitoring heart monitoring implants biochip transponders automobiles sensors etc. and the like.

In aspects the IOT devices can include the necessary hardware and software to directly communicate with an IOT service . In this example the IOT devices can include the necessary hardware and software to communicate with the IOT service using various protocols supported by the IOT service such as publish subscribe messaging protocols i.e. Message Queue Telemetry Transport MQTT and Domain Name System DNS processes and services. Likewise the IOT devices can be connected to an intermediary such as a gateway . In this example the gateway can include the necessary hardware and software to communicate with the IOT devices and the necessary hardware and software to communicate with the IOT service utilizing various protocols supported by the IOT service such as MQTT and DNS processes and services.

The Domain Name System DNS is the part of the Internet infrastructure that translates human readable domain names into a source and data identifier such as Internet Protocol IP numbers needed to establish TCP IP communication over the Internet. DNS allows users to refer to web sites other resources and allows discovery using easier to remember domain names such as www.example.com rather than the numeric IP addresses associated with a website e.g. 192.0.2.78 and assigned to computers on the Internet. Each domain name can be made up of a series of character strings e.g. labels separated by dots. The order of the labels represents a relationship between domain names within the DNS hierarchy. The right most label in a domain name is known as the top level domain TLD . Examples of well known TLDs are com net org and the like. Each TLD supports second level domains listed immediately to the left of the TLD e.g. the example level in www.example.com . Domains can nest within the hierarchy for many levels. For example each second level domain can include a number of third level domains located immediately to the left of the second level domain e.g. the www level in www.example.com. The labels in a domain name include one or more characters each of which may either be an ASCII character or a language specific character e.g. Arabic Chinese Hindi and Latin letters with diacritics e.g. . Domain names represented in whole or in part by language specific characters are called Internationalized Domain Names IDNs . While not yet available potential IDN versions of well known TLDs such as .com .net and .org. could also be created.

The responsibility for operating each TLD including maintaining a registry of the second level domains within the TLD is delegated using a hierarchy of DNS services with different entities acting as the registry or authoritative registry for a portion of the hierarchy to a particular organization known as a domain name registry registry . The registry is primarily responsible for answering queries for data like IP addresses associated with domains resolving typically through DNS servers that maintain such information in large databases and for operating its top level domain.

For most TLDs in order for end users to obtain a domain name that domain name has to be registered with a registry through a domain name registrar an entity authorized to register Internet domain names on behalf of end users. Alternatively an end user can register a domain name indirectly through one or more layers of resellers. A registry may receive registrations from hundreds of registrars.

A zone file is a text file that describes a portion of the DNS called a DNS zone. A zone file is organized in the form of resource records RR and contains information that defines mappings between domain names and IP addresses and other resources. The format of zone files is defined by a standard with each line typically defining a single resource record. A line begins with a domain name but if left blank defaults to the previously defined domain name. Following the domain name is the time to live TTL the class which is almost always IN for internet and rarely included the type of resource record A MX SOA etc. followed by type specific data such as the IPv4 address for A records. Comments can be included by using a semi colon and lines can be continued by using parentheses. There are also file directives that are marked with a keyword starting with a dollar sign.

The DNS distributes the responsibility of assigning domain names and mapping those names to IP addresses by designating authoritative name servers for each domain. Authoritative name servers are assigned to be responsible for their particular domains and in turn can assign other authoritative name servers for their sub domains. This mechanism generally helps avoid the need for a single central registry to be continually consulted and updated. The DNS resolution process allows for users to be directed to a desired domain by a lookup process whereby the user enters the desired domain and the DNS returns appropriate IP numbers. During the DNS resolution process a request for a given domain name is routed from a resolver e.g. a stub resolver to an appropriate server e.g. a recursive resolver to retrieve the IP address. To improve efficiency reduce DNS traffic across the Internet and increase performance in end user applications the DNS supports DNS cache servers that store DNS query results for a period of time determined by the time to live TTL of the domain name record in question. Typically such caching DNS servers also called DNS caches also implement the recursive algorithm necessary to resolve a given name starting with the DNS root through to the authoritative name servers of the queried domain. Internet service providers ISPs typically provide recursive and caching DNS servers for their customers. In addition home networking routers may implement DNS caches and proxies to improve efficiency in the local network.

According to aspects of the present disclosure the IOT service can assign a domain name to each of the IOT devices . The domain name can then be associated with the IP address of the IOT device . Domain names i.e. qnames can also be assigned by an entity owner of the IoT device . To facilitate the registration of IOT devices an IOT service can provide an application programming interface API that performs DNS registration of IOT devices on behalf of devices and gateways DNS API not shown . The IOT service can provide a domain name that uniquely identifies the devices as IOT devices and also shows the relationship of the devices. For example the IOT service can establish a domain for IOT devices such as .iotservice.example.com. As the devices are registered with the IOT service the IOT service assigns the domain name and creates the DNS records for the IOT devices. For example if the IOT devices are owned by Company A the IOT service can create a domain companyA.iotservice.example.com. The IOT service can assign a unique domain name to each of the IOT devices for example iotdevicel.companyA.iotservice.example.com. The domain and the domain names for each of the IOT devices allow consumers to locate and communicate with the IOT devices .

The IOT service can also include an API to allow a user to communicate with the IOT service . The user can communicate with the IOT service to establish the services of the IOT service register devices and the like. The IOT service can also include an API to allow the consumers to locate and communicate with the IOT devices . In some aspects one or more services provided by the IOT service can reside in the cloud.

Within the IoT environment each room or space can include a number of IoT devices. The types of IoT devices that can be within the IoT environment can also vary widely from those that simply measure and report data to those that can be actuated remotely to perform one or more actions. In the example of the IoT environment will be described within a home context and the IoT devices will be those that would typically be found in this context. In this example the IoT devices can be devices that can detect measure and or sense a condition in one or more sensing modalities. These IoT devices include but are not limited to particulate concentration measuring devices i.e. smoke carbon monoxide radon etc. alarms video cameras audio listening devices heat sensing devices i.e. temperature based and infrared. In some instances the IoT devices with the IoT environment may be organized in a hierarchical manner where certain IoT devices may have a higher status or higher permission level within the IoT environment . Various factors can be used to determine whether a particular IoT device is granted with this higher level of authority such as the number of sensing modalities where those IoT devices with a greater number of sensing modalities can be granted a higher level of authority with the IoT environment .

Typically each room may have one IoT device however there is no requirement that every room include an IoT device. One or more of the rooms may not have any IoT devices while other rooms may have more than one IoT device. In this example Room includes IoT device Room includes a coordinator discussed further below Room includes IoT device Room includes IoT devices and . Although not explicitly labeled as such IoT device can be arranged in an adjoining space i.e. in a hallway between Room and Room .

The plurality of IoT devices within the IoT environment can be arranged to form a network. The network of existing e.g. authorized IoT devices can be managed by the coordinator whose functionality can be dispersed among one or more of the IoT devices or can be a separate IoT device. In some cases the coordinator or IoT devices serving as a coordinator can be granted the highest level of authority within the network.

When a user wants to add a new device to the network of existing IoT devices the new device can be added through an authorization process described herein. The new device can be an IoT device having one or more sensors capable of sensing in one or more sensing modalities and a transponder to transmit data related to the one or more sensing modalities and or receive data from other IoT devices or coordinator. Alternatively the new device can be a device that is only capable of detecting one or more sensing modalities. In the processes described below the new device can be either type of device. If the new device is of the first type the new device can detect measure record and transmit data for each event as discussed below as measured by the one or more sensors. The data recorded by the new IoT device can be compared with data recorded at each event by the authorized IoT devices .

As shown in the new device enters the IoT environment and an event and an event is created in Room in association with IoT device . The new device progresses into Room where an event is created in association with coordinator . As the new IoT device exits Room and moves within physical proximity of a sensing modality of IoT in the hallway an event is created. Event is created as the new IoT device enters Room containing IoT devices and . Event is created as the new IoT device enters Room containing IoT device and the path concludes as event is created in the hallway near the IoT device .

In the coordinator constructs a time sequence of proximity events for the new device within a defined time window based on the first data. In this example the coordinator can receive events from each of the authorized IoT devices and order the events into a time sequence. As one example after each IoT device records a particular event that IoT device can provide that event information to the coordinator . The coordinator can then record a time at which each event is received and use that time to construct the time sequence. Alternatively the coordinator can use the time recorded by each IoT device when each event occurs. In some instances if a particular IoT device cannot record or determine a time at which an event occurs the coordinator in conjunction with other IoT devices can infer a time for a particular event based corroborating and or complementary information for other IoT devices . For instance if IoT device in Room cannot record at time for event the coordinator can use data from events and to infer when event occurs in the time sequence.

In the coordinator determines if the time sequence of the proximity events matches an expected time sequence of expected proximity events. Once the coordinator constructs the time sequence of events the coordinator determines if the time sequence is what would be expected if the new device traveled along a path through the IoT environment .

In the coordinator admits the new device to the network based on the determination that the time sequence of the proximity events matches an expected time sequence of expected proximity events. In some instances the coordinator may delegate the responsibility of determining admission of the new device to one or more of the other IoT devices . The coordinator may poll the authorized IoT devices or the one or more IoT devices may vote to determine if the new device is to be admitted. In this instance a predetermined threshold of authorized IoT devices can be used to permit the new device to join the network. The predetermined threshold can be set to be more than 50 66 75 etc of authorized IoT devices .

As discussed above with reference to a coordinator WiFi router in the example of can instruct each of the authorized IoT devices to enter into an authentication mode that can be used to authenticate new devices to the network. Alternatively each authorized IoT device may enter into this mode after receiving a discovery signal from a new device. As shown in the user brings the thermostat that the user would like to add to the network of authorized IoT devices into Room . The camera that is monitoring Room records event at time tand event at time tas separate events with corresponding successive time stamps. Additionally the thermostat can record a temperature measurement in Room at time t which can be correlated or matched with event at time tand or event at time t. The measurement made by the thermostat at time tand the events at time tand at time tmade by the camera can be used show that the thermostat was in Room at time tat the time the measurements were made.

As shown in the thermostat is brought into Room where event is recorded by WiFi router at time t. For example since both the thermostat and the WiFi router can each communicate using a near field communication protocol the event can include information regarding a time duration that the thermostat is within the proximity range of the WiFi router for the near field communication protocol to be effective. Again the thermostat can record another measurement in Room at time t.

As shown in the thermostat leaves Room and is brought along the hallway that contains the smoke alarm where event is created at time t. Again the thermostat can record another measurement in the hallway at time t. For example as thermostat is brought in proximity of the smoke alarm both the thermostat and the smoke alarm can take independent temperature measurements which can later be compared by the coordinator to show that the thermostat was at the location when event occurred.

As shown in the thermostat is brought into Room which includes the refrigerator and the IR detector where event at time tand event at time t are successively created. Again the thermostat can record another measurement in Room at time t. For example since both the thermostat and the refrigerator can each measure temperature and communicate using a near field communication protocol the event can include information regarding a temperature and a time duration that the thermostat is within the proximity range of the refrigerator for the near field communication protocol to be effective. Further as the thermostat comes within the infrared range of IR detector event can include a corresponding timer interval as detected by the IR detector .

As shown in the thermostat is brought into Room which includes the satellite radio and since the satellite radio does not include any sensing modalities no event is created. Again the thermostat can record another measurement in Room at time t. As shown in the thermostat leaves Room and is brought along the hallway containing the smoke alarm where event at time tis created. Again the thermostat can record another measurement in the hallway at time t. The path that the thermostat traversed is shown in .

The authorization process described above can be used to reduce if not eliminate potentially harmful devices from spoofing the IoT environment or to gain entry to the network of authorized IoT devices . For instance consider the case where a user of the thermostat is intentionally trying to deceive IoT environment by sending temperature measurements that the thermostat determines are similar to those in the IoT environment . By comparing the events and the respective times at which those events occurred as determined or recorded by the authorized IoT devices with the temperature measurements sent by the thermostat the coordinator or the coordinator functionality can determine the accuracy of the temperature measurements and use this data to determine if the thermostat should be allowed to enter the network. If one or more of the temperature measurements and a time value corresponding to those measurements sent by the thermostat does not match what is expected from the authorized IoT devices the thermostat can be denied entry into the network.

In order to provide additional security the coordinator or the coordinator functionality embodied in one or more authorized IoT devices in the network within the IoT environment or can remove the new device as an authorized device based on one or more factors. For example if the new device is not within proximity of the IoT environment or for a predefined period of time the new device can be removed from a list of permissible devices. The predefined period of time can be selected based on a desired level of security of the IoT environment or and can be selected to be a time period based on a number of hours days weeks or months etc. If the new device loses its authorization the process described above may be employed to admit the new device to the IoT environment or again.

As IoT devices enter and leave the network the capabilities of the network will continue to evolve over time. For instance as the number of higher functioning IoT device join the network the capabilities of the network will continue to grow. As such the capabilities of the network will be shared to all level of devices from the most simple of IoT devices to those with high functioning. For instance if a new IoT device is added to a network the capabilities of the new IoT device can be shared with each IoT device on the network. For illustration consider that the new IoT device has a financial capability based on a digital wallet containing digital currency. For those IoT devices in the network that are suitably authorized for example by the coordinator the financial capability may be extended to the other IoT devices in the network. Financial transactions can be performed for example through the coordinator on behalf of any of the authorized IoT devices in the network. In this example if the IoT device is low on a replenishable resource or if the IoT device itself is near end of life then an order can be made using the financial capability of the IoT device to resupply or replace the resource or device. The coordinator or coordinator functionality may maintain a log of orders and be operable to audit the log to determine if the order that was made is still authorized. In the instance that an IoT device places an order around a time that that IoT device is removed from the network the coordinator may modify or cancel the order.

In some aspects the above discussed methods can be performed based on an initialization process whereby the authorized IoT devices are mapped within a particular IoT environment. Referring again to an authorized IoT device can be used to create a map of time events representing a time interval that it takes to traverse between IoT devices within IoT environment . Points on the map can then be compared to data related to a new IoT device to determine whether the new IoT should be granted permission to join the existing network of authorized IoT devices.

For example as the IoT device moves between from Room to Room the time interval to travel between Room and Room represented by t can be recorded. Likewise the time interval to travel between Room and Room can be represented by t and the time interval to travel between Room and Room can be represented by t. The reverse path likewise could be assumed to correspond to the same time interval such that the time to travel from Room to Room would be the same as travelling from Room to Room . Thus a time graph is constructed for IoT environment where each node on the graph is represented by a particular IoT device and the distance between nodes represents a time interval that it takes to traverse a path between two nodes. The time graph need not include all possible paths between IoT devices. The coordinator or any other authorized IoT device can then use the time graph as a means to determine admittance of other IoT devices wishing to gain entry to the network.

The time interval can include a measure of uncertainty such as 50 such that any time value within or including half at one end and double at the other extreme can be considered valid. The measure of uncertainty can be selected based on a variety of factors include the layout of the IoT environment distances between IoT devices etc. For example the measure of uncertainty can be selected to vary between adjacent IoT devices such that the value can be lower for one set of IoT devices and higher for another set of IoT devices. Continuing with this example consider that it takes 3 minutes to travel from Room to Room plus or minus 30 seconds depending how fast the IoT device is moved. Then an acceptable time interval can be from a maximum time of 3 minutes and 30 seconds to a minimum of 2 minutes and 30 seconds. Each time interval as represented by the length between nodes on a time graph would have a maximum and a minimum time interval.

When the new IoT device enters the IoT environment a series of time events can be created as the new IoT device comes within proximity an IoT device located throughout the IoT environment . The series of time events can then be compared with the time graph to determine whether the new IoT device should be admitted to the network. The new IoT device can start anywhere in the IoT environment and does not need to know the arrangement of the IoT devices in the IoT environment . For example consider the instance where the new IoT device is turned on or is activated into a discovery mode that can be used for the authorization process. A first time event can be created in Room due to the interaction between either or both IoT devices located in that room. As the new IoT device moves from Room to Room a time interval t can be recorded by the new IoT device and or the coordinator . A second time interval between Room and Room t and a third time interval between Room and Room t is also created. Each time interval can have an associated measure of uncertainty as discussed above.

The first second and third time interval created by the new IoT device can then be compared with the time graph. If all or a subset of the time intervals match within the measure of uncertainty the time intervals in the time graph then the new IoT device can be permitted to join the network. Additionally to add an additional layer of security the start time for one traversal can be checked to see if that value matches an end time of a previous traversal. For example if the start time of the traversal from Room to Room corresponds with an end time of the traversal from Room to Room then the new IoT device can be shown to have moved from Room to Room to Room in a continuous manner.

In some aspects successive connected edges of the time graph can be considered in making additional edges. For instance suppose the IoT environment has consecutive points or nodes A B C D as shown in which point or node can represent a particular IoT device. The time graph as shown has single edges of A B B C C D . The time interval to traverse a particular edge is represented by either T A B or T B A since the time interval could be assumed to be the same in either direction. The time interval will be bounded by a maximum value T A B max and a minimum value T A B min as discussed above. Additional edges such as A C A D B D can also be constructed. The minimum and maximum times for these constructed edges would be the sum of the minimum or maximum times of the respective component edges. The authenticating process as provided herein for a device could take into account both the original edges and the constructed edges. This can allow for a stronger authentication process as it is no longer subject to having single point detection failures that could result in the device not being authenticated. As one example consider the time it takes to traverse contstructed edge A C as the combination of traversals between nodes A to B and from B to C which can be represented by T A C or the reverse path T C A T A B T B C . The minimum time T A C min would equal T A B min T B C min and the maximum time T A C max would equal T A B max T B C max.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation can occur to persons skilled in the art. For instance the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described can be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For a software implementation the techniques described herein can be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions subprograms programs routines subroutines modules software packages classes and so on that perform the functions described herein. A module can be coupled to another module or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data or the like can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission and the like. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various means as is known in the art.

For example illustrates an example of a hardware configuration for a computer device that can be used to perform one or more of the processes of the IoT service described above. While illustrates various components contained in the computer device illustrates one example of a computer device and additional components can be added and existing components can be removed.

The computer device can be any type of computer devices such as desktops laptops servers etc. or mobile devices such as smart telephones tablet computers cellular telephones personal digital assistants etc. As illustrated in the computer device can include one or more processors of varying core configurations and clock frequencies. The computer device can also include one or more memory devices that serve as a main memory during the operation of the computer device . For example during operation a copy of the software that supports the IoT service can be stored in the one or more memory devices . The computer device can also include one or more peripheral interfaces such as keyboards mice touchpads computer screens touchscreens etc. for enabling human interaction with and manipulation of the computer device .

The computer device can also include one or more network interfaces for communicating via one or more networks such as Ethernet adapters wireless transceivers or serial network components for communicating over wired or wireless media using protocols. The computer device can also include one or more storage device of varying physical dimensions and storage capacities such as flash drives hard drives random access memory etc. for storing data such as images files and program instructions for execution by the one or more processors .

Additionally the computer device can include one or more software programs that enable the functionality of the IoT service described above. The one or more software programs can include instructions that cause the one or more processors to perform the processes described herein. Copies of the one or more software programs can be stored in the one or more memory devices and or on in the one or more storage devices . Likewise the data for example DNS records utilized by one or more software programs can be stored in the one or more memory devices and or on in the one or more storage devices .

In implementations the computer device can communicate with one or more IoT devices via a network . The one or more IoT devices can be any types of devices as described above. The network can be any type of network such as a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof. The network can support communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP UDP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIPS AppleTalk and the like. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

The computer device can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In some implementations information can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate.

In implementations the components of the computer device as described above need not be enclosed within a single enclosure or even located in close proximity to one another. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above described componentry are examples only as the computer device can include any type of hardware componentry including any necessary accompanying firmware or software for performing the disclosed implementations. The computer device can also be implemented in part or in whole by electronic circuit components or processors such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs .

If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over a computer readable medium as one or more instructions or code. Computer readable media includes both tangible non transitory computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media can be any available tangible non transitory media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such tangible non transitory computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM flash memory EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes CD laser disc optical disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the teachings have been described with reference to examples of the implementations thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described implementations without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the processes have been described by examples the stages of the processes can be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in the detailed description such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. As used herein the terms one or more of and at least one of with respect to a listing of items such as for example A and B means A alone B alone or A and B. Further unless specified otherwise the term set should be interpreted as one or more. Also the term couple or couples is intended to mean either an indirect or direct connection. Thus if a first device couples to a second device that connection can be through a direct connection or through an indirect connection via other devices components and connections.

