---

title: System and method for web-based real time communication with contact centers
abstract: A method for connecting a website user to a contact center agent includes: monitoring user interaction associated with the website user; receiving a call request via the website; identifying an agent or an interactive voice response based on the monitored user interaction; and establishing a communication channel supported by a web browser between the website user and the identified agent or the interactive voice response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503581&OS=09503581&RS=09503581
owner: Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09503581
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150817
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 669 384 filed on Nov. 5 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 112 975 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for operating contact centers and more particularly to systems and methods for communicating with users using web browser based communication channels.

In the field of customer communications and services an organization such as a retail company a service company or a non profit organization may operate a website for providing information to customers and clients and or for providing an entry point of communication with a contact center. In addition to the website the organization may also operate a contact center e.g. customer service or sales contact center staffed by people who communicate with customers via a telephone or other audio visual communication channel interactive text chat systems short message service SMS social media cobrowsing email letters fax etc.

Generally visitors to an organization s website are presented with information and opportunities for contacting representatives of the organization at the contact centers. These opportunities are typically presented as toll free numbers e.g. 1 800 numbers for voice communications and or chat boxes or windows integrated into a web page for real time text based communications. In some circumstances a user is given the opportunity to fill out a form to indicate what they would like to speak about and to provide their telephone number for a representative of the organization to call the user either immediately or at a designated time using the public switched telephone network PSTN .

However operating toll free numbers and maintaining a sufficiently large number of PSTN lines can often be expensive for organizations. In addition voice communication over a PSTN connection is generally limited to audio and is substantially separate from and independent of the particular browser session currently being used by the caller.

Many organizations often use Data Network Telephony DNT or computer simulated telephony to provide increased flexibility in handling higher numbers of calls through the use of shared connectionless data networks such as the Internet. In such DNT systems high loads can be handled by for example gracefully degrading call quality during peak usage through Quality of Service QoS mechanisms. For example a DNT system may be implemented in part using telephones and gateways based on a Session initiation Protocol SIP as described in part in Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comments RFC 2543 3261 and 3262.

Whether the contact centers use PSTN lines DNT connections other types of telephonic communication systems or combinations thereof the contact centers typically include some system for routing incoming calls to the appropriate parties. Such a system may include an interactive voice response IVR system. The call can be connected to an IVR either before reaching the contact center switch such as at the service control point SCP level or after reaching the contact center switch such as through contact center routing means. During an IVR interaction a voice application or a chain of voice applications is played for the caller and the caller interacts with menu options that are played by the voice application e.g. For new sales press 1. For product support press 2. . Other IVR systems may also or alternatively provide voice recognition systems e.g. Which flight would you like to know the status of You can say the flight number or enter it on your keypad. . Interaction with such enunciated voice menus may often be difficult. This may be due in part to confusion because of the recitation of many options presented serially to the caller through the voice interface. Often a caller replays the menu and listens to the available options multiple times before selecting an option. This creates delay in the system that could lead to delays in call processing and to reductions in call processing efficiency and may sometimes result in callers abandoning calls due to frustration.

Accordingly what is desired are economical systems and methods for customers to communicate with agents at contact centers and systems and methods for determining user intentions for routing calls to particular agents.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method for connecting a website user to a contact center agent includes monitoring user interaction associated with the website user receiving a call request via the website identifying an agent or an interactive voice response based on the monitored user interaction and establishing a communication channel supported by a web browser between the website user and the identified agent or the interactive voice response.

The establishing the communication channel may include identifying a user session using the session identifier.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for providing connections with a contact center includes a WebRTC SIP gateway configured to receive a plurality of requests for connections between a session of a user on a website and the contact center a routing server configured to route the requests for connections to a plurality of customer service representatives of the contact center and a call server for establishing calls via the WebRTC SIP gateway between the user and a customer service representative of the contact center.

The routing server may be configured to route a request to a customer service representative of the customer services representatives via the call server.

The system may further include a monitoring server configured to monitor user interaction associated with the user of the website wherein the routing server is configured to route the request to a customer service representative in accordance with the monitored user interaction and wherein the call server is configured to establish the call by identifying the user using the session identifier.

In the following detailed description only certain exemplary embodiments of the present invention are shown and described by way of illustration. As those skilled in the art would recognize the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like reference numerals designate like elements throughout the specification.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for establishing one or more communications channels with visitors to a website and a customer service representative also referred to as an agent using a web browser based communication system. Such a system may be for example a Web real time communication WebRTC system. WebRTC which is also known as RTCWeb enables a web browser to provide real time communications RTC capabilities via JavaScript application programming interfaces APIs without requiring a user to actively download and install additional software and essentially makes bidirectional media processing and media coding technologies available in every browser. WebRTC technology puts a media engine into a browser or other elements of client devices. The media engine is the technology that manages microphones cameras and speakers and gets audio and video onto and off the internet. Thus a visitor to the website desiring to speak to an agent simply actuates a call button displayed on the website and a voice and or video connection is formed between the visitor and an agent over e.g. the Internet without requiring that the visitor install any standalone applications or browser plug in. The visitor also need not leave his her current web browsing session and initiate a separate call session for engaging in a web browser based voice communication with the agent.

In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the user s activity on the website is monitored and information derived from monitoring the activity is used to determine whether or not to offer a live agent e.g. a live communication with a customer service representative . If offered a live contact the user may choose to speak to an agent e.g. via text chat telephone WebRTC or another teleconferencing service . The organization may route the user to an agent based on the user s prior activity on the website. For example a first user looking primarily at a particular category of products e.g. laptops available for sale on the website would be directed to a sales agent with specialized knowledge of that category. As another example a second user browsing portions of the website associated with troubleshooting problems associated with a particular product would be routed to a customer support agent such as a technical support agent. As a third example a customer browsing a Spanish or Chinese version of the website may be routed to a Spanish or Chinese speaking customer service representative respectively.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention a user may utilize an out of band OOB or supplemental channel for providing and receiving additional information to and from agents and end users before during and or after a call e.g. by telephone WebRTC or other voice over IP communication channel. In some embodiments the OOB channel is dynamically offered by the contact center through the web server such that the decision to offer the OOB channel is made by the contact center and the user is provided the option to accept or ignore this channel. According to one exemplary embodiment the OOB or supplemental channel may include any communication channel which is logically linked to the real time communication channel used for video and or audio conversation between agents and end users but may be separate from the real time communication channel with respect to the protocol and transmission. For example the display of the OOB channel data could be either separated from or grouped with the real time communication display. According to one embodiment of the present invention the OOB channel is used to display of pictures or movies or a graphical presentation of an IVR selection menu. In some embodiments the additional information may be received via the OOB channel after establishing a call but before connecting the call with an agent. In other embodiments when the additional information is received via the OOB channel before establishing a call it may be used to assist in routing the user to an appropriate agent.

In some embodiments when the customer initiates a call using WebRTC the contact center actively initiates or offers an OOB or supplemental channel to the user to for example show the graphical presentation of the IVR menu and for the agent to push content to the user. For example according to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the OOB channel may also be a text chat window where the additional information is exchanged between agents and end users via text chat. The OOB channel may also be for example a medium for sharing images e.g. screenshots recorded videos documents e.g. tutorials and order forms links to other web pages and or a medium for sharing screens e.g. using remote desktop technology such as remote framebuffer Microsoft Remote Desktop Services and other similar technologies . The OOB channel may also provide a backup communication channel if WebRTC is unreliable due to an unstable a poor Internet connection. Furthermore the OOB channel can provide data without being restricted by quality of service QoS requirements that may be in place for data that is transferred in an in band channel such as a WebRTC channel.

In some exemplary embodiments in addition or in lieu of any information provided via the OOB channel the agents may also be with supplied information regarding the user s browsing history on the organization s website and if available the users responses to web browser based forms in order to provide the agent with a better understanding of the issues the user may be facing.

According to one exemplary embodiment a contact center may be operated by the organization or by another entity. The contact center may according to one example include a WebRTC call server or gateway for receiving incoming requests to establish WebRTC calls and a routing server for routing incoming requests from the WebRTC call server to appropriate agents at the contact center. According to one embodiment the WebRTC call server is configured to receive and establish WebRTC sessions and acts as a gateway between WebRTC and SIP. The WebRTC call is converted into SIP and sent to the SIP server and there it is picked up by the router which instructs the SIP server where to route the call to. If the agent is SIP enabled then the call goes directly from the SIP server to the agent. If the agent is WebRTC enabled then the SIP server passes the call back to the WebRTC call server and the call is sent from there to the agent. The agents may be reached at one or more agent devices which may include for example desktop or portable computers tablets smartphones or any other device capable of running a web browser or at agent telephones . The agent telephones may be for example SIP phones for engaging in voice over IP VoIP communication via for example a SIP server .

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center also includes a web monitor for monitoring customer s activity on the web server . In other embodiments the web monitor may be hosted by the organization and may be a software module running on the web server or on a separate server. Systems and methods for monitoring a customer or web visitor are described in more detail in for example in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 293 575 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Nov. 10 2011 and titled SYSTEM FOR INTERACTING WITH A WEB VISITOR the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The contact center may also include a database server for storing information relating to the customers and their interactions with the organization and the contact center. Such information may include for example historical data collected by prior agents regarding prior calls and prior issues or requirements contact information such as names addresses and telephone numbers lists of products owned by the customer and the like.

In some exemplary embodiments the contact center also includes an OOB application server separate from the web server configured to provide OOB or supplemental communications channels to the customer end user devices . For example in some embodiments the web server is configured to handle and supply functionality related to WebRTC calls between the web browser and the WebRTC call server while the OOB application server is configured to provide code and or media associated with the out of band communication channels. In other embodiments the out of band communication channel functionality may be provided by the web server . These out of band communications channels may include without limitation channels that provide web browser based forms text chats video and other types of media that may typically be presentable by a web server to a customer via a web browser. For example text based chat may be used for increased accuracy when communicating addresses email addresses and credit card payment information and to provide URLs to web pages to answer user questions. The OOB channels may also be used for video tutorials official documentation and screen sharing for demonstrating usage. OOB channels may also provide some redundancies in the case of poor connections in the real time communication channel. In this regard the WebRTC call server may assist in establishing socket connections between the customer end user device and the out of band application server and or the agent device .

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention an end user viewing a website provided by the web application referred to as the website visitor may decide to speak to an agent for asking questions about products viewed on the website engage in a particular transaction or for receiving any other assistance from the agent. A conventional method for initiating this conversation is by dialing a telephone number e.g. a toil free or 1 800 number . The user may also request e.g. via email that the agent call the customer at a particular telephone number or may engage in a text based chat with the agent via the web browser . According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the end user may in addition or in lieu of these conventional contact mechanisms establish a WebRTC call with an agent via the web browser. Using WebRTC allows a user to participate in a real time voice conversation with an agent thereby increasing their engagement while reducing the costs associated with operating a contact center reliant on standard PSTN telephone systems. In addition WebRTC calls may be associated with particular browser sessions thereby simplifying the task of associating OOB channels with the in band audio video channel.

The various servers and web monitor of may each include one or more processors executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory implemented using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also although the functionality of each of the servers is described as being provided by the particular server a person of skill in the art should recognize that the functionality of various servers may be combined or integrated into a single server or the functionality of a particular server may be distributed across one or more other servers without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention.

The process starts and in step the web monitor tracks a user s session on a web application such as for example the web application provided by the web server . In this regard a user invokes the browser in the end user device to access the web application . The user may interact with the website application by navigating though the pages of the website selecting different links submitting information initiating transactions or performing other actions as will be apparent to a person of skill in the art. The navigating of the various pages and the actions performed while visiting the website is tracked by the web monitor as discussed in further detail in the above referenced U.S. application Ser. No. 13 293 575. For example while using the web application a session identifier a session ID or session token or alternatively login information associated with a user account may be granted and associated with the customer end user device and or the web browser running thereon thereby allowing the web application and other servers operated by the organization and or the contact center to identify the user and to track the user s activity.

According to one exemplary embodiment the web monitor monitors tracks the user s activity on the web application to determine the intent or goals of the user while using the website e.g. determining which category of products or services the user is interested in purchasing or determining the problem that the user would like to resolve and associate this computed result with the user s session identifier. According to one exemplary embodiment the web monitor supplies to the routing server information regarding the monitored activity of the user as associated with a particular session identifier.

While perusing the information on the website the user may decide to speak to a customer service representative to obtain information or to ask for assistance in regards to a product or service being viewed. According to one example the visitor may transmit the command to initiate the call by selecting a call button. According to one exemplary embodiment the web application interprets the command as a command to initiate a browser based real time communication channel referred to as a WebRTC call .

In step the WebRTC call server receives the request to initiate the WebRTC call with a customer service representative. According to one exemplary embodiment the request to initiate the call includes for example a Session Description Protocol SDP offer as described in Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comments RFC 3264 which may include an Interactive Connectivity Establishment ICE candidate as described in IETF RFC5245 . The offer may include information such as a session identifier for identifying the requested session and an IP address of the requesting end user device.

In step the WebRTC call server translates the WebRTC call to a SIP call using a SIP protocol and sends a request e.g. via an INVITE message to the SIP server . Although a SIP call is used as an example a person of skill in the art should recognize that a different protocol for VoIP communication may be used instead of SIP such as for example H.323.

In other embodiments of the present invention the web server may provide the JavaScript that drives WebRTC functionality to the web browser. When the user activates a WebRTC session the other party is matched to the WebRTC call server . The WebRTC call server acts as a proxy or gateway for connection to the actual end party of the user s WebRTC session where the actual party may be for example a WebRTC enabled agent or a SIP enabled agent.

In step the routing server is invoked by the SIP server for identifying an appropriate agent to route the call.

In step a determination is made by for example the SIP server in combination with the router as to whether the identified agent is associated with a WebRTC capable browser. If the answer is NO the SIP server transmits in step a SIP call to the selected agent. For example the SIP server transmits a SIP INVITE message to the selected agent s SIP device e.g. telephone . The selected agent thus communicates with the website visitor via his or her SIP device while the website visitor communicates with the selected agent via the web browser . In some exemplary embodiments this WebRTC call referred to as an in band connection is used solely for voice e.g. audio only . In other exemplary embodiments the connection includes both audio and video. Referring again to step if a determination is made that the selected agent has a WebRTC capable browser the SIP server transmits a SIP call for the agent to the WebRTC call server . In this regard the SIP server transmits a SIP INVITE message including an address of the selected agent.

In step the WebRTC call server converts the SIP call to a WebRTC call. In this regard the WebRTC call server acts as a bidirectional gateway between WebRTC and SIP based calls.

In step the WebRTC call server sends the WebRTC call to the browser in the selected agent s device . Thus both the agent and the website visitor engage in communication via their respective web browsers.

Referring again to step if the routing server determines that the information received is insufficient for routing the call additional routing information may be collected in step from the website visitor. According to one exemplary embodiment the routing server invokes the OOB application server for obtaining the additional information. In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the OOB application server displays one or more prompts e.g. web forms or a series of prompts in a wizard via an OOB channel to obtain the additional information. For example a webpage may be displayed to the website visitor inquiring additional details on the call such as for example the reason for the call a particular language that is preferred and the like.

According to one exemplary embodiment the OOB application server provides one or more OOB channels of communication within the browser in addition to e.g. concurrently with the real time communication channel e.g. the WebRTC connection .

According to one exemplary embodiment the OOB application server forwards the additional information to the routing server or to the call server to route the call to the appropriate customer service representative.

In embodiments of the present invention which include the web monitor the one or more prompts for additional information may be selected based on the sufficiency of the information determined by the web monitor . For example the web monitor may determine that a user is interested in obtaining product support because the user has been browsing troubleshooting pages. However in some circumstances the web monitor may not have sufficient information to determine the particular product that the user is having issues with. As such when the user makes a request to establish a real time communication channel with a customer service representative the out of band application server may first prompt the user to indicate that it believes that the user is looking for customer support and may ask the user to identify a product from a list of products that the user would like help with.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the session identifier transmitted with the request for a WebRTC call is used to associate the website user with the particular session of the web application the user s call request and the user s responses to the web browser based prompts.

The additional routing information may be combined with the previously collected routing information and reassessed in step to determine if there is sufficient information to determine a user s intentions. The process may be repeated until sufficient information is received. The user may also choose to cancel the call request rather than to continue to answer questions via the web prompt in which ease the call request is ended in step .

The out of band application server receives request to establish an out of band channel in step . Either the user or the customer service representative CSR may make this request via their web browsers on their end user devices and the out of band channel may be activated at the contact center. The request may identify one or more types of out of band channels e.g. text chat screen sharing etc. to be established. The out of band application server also uses session identifiers to identify the user and the CSR to be connected. The out of band application server then establishes a connection e.g. a WebSocket connection between the user and the CSR using their respective session identifiers. This connection can be used to provide a channel for communicating the out of band information between the user and the CSR.

As described above according to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the out of band channels and out of band information are used to supplement the in band WebRTC based voice and or video communication channel by providing additional communication channels such as text chat screen sharing and the like.

In some embodiments of the present invention the party e.g. the user or the CSR not requesting the out of band channel may be prompted to confirm or reject the request to establish the out of band channel. In addition in some embodiments of the present invention separate connections e.g. separate WebSocket connections are established between the user and the CSR e.g. the web browsers used by the user and the CSR for each type of out of band channel or some or all of these connections can be shared by the types of out of band channels used.

In the illustrated example a request to establish a WebRTC call is transmitted by the browser in response to the user s selection of the button . The established WebRTC call between the website visitor and an agent may be audio only or audio and video. is an exemplary screen shot of a browser window with a pop up window displaying a real time video call with an agent.

While the present invention has been described in connection with certain exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof. For example in some embodiments of the present invention may provide multi party calls involving for example multiple agents interacting with a customer over WebRTC and the OOB communication channels call transfer between agents supervisor silent monitoring or whisper coaching e.g. supervisor speaking to the agent without the customers being able to listen in are also available and end users or customers may be able to conference in other parties via WebRTC.

While embodiments of the present invention illustrate a call server and routing calls via the call server in some embodiments of the present invention customer service representatives communicate with users directly via WebRTC connections without an intervening call server. In other embodiments a SIP server is included in the loop for purposes of call control such as transfer conferencing or supervisors silent monitoring and whisper coaching.

In addition while embodiments of the present invention have been described above in the context of WebRTC other embodiments of the present invention may use other web browser based conferencing technologies such as CU RTC WEB that similarly do not depend on the installation of additional plugins such as Adobe Flash or the Google Talk plugin.

