---

title: Mechanical membrane for the separation of a paramagnetic constituent from a fluid
abstract: The disclosure provides an apparatus and method for the separation of a paramagnetic component from a mixture using a mechanical membrane apparatus. The mechanical membrane comprises a supporting material having a plurality of pores where each pore is surrounded by a plurality of magnetic regions. The magnetic regions augment a magnetic field on one side of the supporting material while mitigating the field to near zero on the opposite side. In operation, a flow of fluid such as air comprising a paramagnetic component such as Ois directed toward the mechanical membrane, and the paramagnetic component is typically attracted toward a magnetic field surrounding a pore while dimagnetic components such as Nare generally repelled. As some portion of the fluid passes through the plurality of magnetic apertures to the opposite side of the mechanical membrane, the mechanical membrane generates a fluid enriched in the paramagnetic component. Alternately, the magnetic field may act to repel the paramagnetic component while diamagnetic components such as Nare generally unaffected and pass to the opposite side of the mechanical membrane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09636631&OS=09636631&RS=09636631
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09636631
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150413
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relates to a mechanical membrane for the separation of a paramagnetic component in a fluid such as the separation of oxygen from air. The mechanical membrane comprises a plurality of pores having magnetic regions around each pore to augment a magnetic field on one side of the pore while mitigating the field to near zero on an opposite side.

Oxygen is a high value commodity chemical with demand for tonnage quantities increasing due to a steady growth in process operations such as oxyfuel combustion and oxygen blown gasification. Typically oxygen is generated via separation from air using cryogenic and non cryogenic distillation. Cryogenic distillation methods are often utilized for applications that require high quantities of oxygen at low temperatures while non cryogenic separations typically involve the separation of air at ambient temperatures using either molecular sieve adsorbents via pressure swing adsorption PSA or membrane separation process using polymeric membranes. There are also air separation techniques using chemical processes based on absorption and desorption of oxygen at particular pressure and temperature conditions.

Oxygen has also been separated from air using by utilizing the difference in magnetic susceptibility between oxygen and nitrogen in processes generally referred to as magnetic separation. Oxygen is strongly parametric and this has been exploited in a variety of configurations. In some methodologies high gradient magnetic fields near the surfaces of magnetized wires have been utilized to capture oxygen molecules. In other methodologies opposite magnetizing forces act on paramagnetic oxygen atoms and diamagnetic nitrogen atoms to separate trajectories. See e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 691 723 by Raizen et al. filed Nov. 30 2013 and published Jul. 11 2013. The first method cannot enrich oxygen continuously because the magnetized wires have a saturation phenomenon to capture oxygen molecules and the latter is strongly influenced by the gas turbulence and the molecular diffusion that results in the remixing of oxygen and nitrogen. Other approaches have utilized a magnetic sieve approach in order to continuously divert oxygen and nitrogen into separate streams. See Zhang et al. Effect of magnetic yoke on magnetic field distribution and intercepting effect of multichannel cascading magnet arrays . 1207 2010 see also Wang et al. A Novel Magnetic Separation Oxygen enriched Method and the influence of Temperature and Magnetic Field on Enrichment 16 2007 . Other approaches have utilized substantially porous materials through supporting materials which generate magnetic flux generally parallel to the pressure gradient of a flow in order to repel nitrogen while generally attracting oxygen into the pores. See e.g. Ciesla et al. Theoretical consideration for oxygen enrichment from air using high TC superconducting membrane PRZEGLD ELEKTROTECHNICZNY Electrical Review R. 88 NR 7b 2012 and see U.S. Pat. No. 4 704 139 issued to Yamamoto et al issued Nov. 3 1987 and see U.S. Pat. No. 5 779 770 issued to Nitta et al. issued Jul. 14 1998. These methodologies generally proscribe the presence of magnetic material over substantially all of the resulting devices and typically generate a magnetic field expected to operate with a generally perpendicular orientation over the entirely of the device regardless of pore location.

Provided here is a mechanical membrane for the separation of a paramagnetic component which utilizes a plurality of pores extending through a supporting material with each pore surrounded by a plurality of magnetic regions arranged to optimize a magnetic field in the locality of an individual pore. The magnetic regions around a given pore are arranged to augment the magnetic field on one side of the supporting material while mitigating the field to near zero on the opposite side in order to minimize the magnetic material required. In operation a flow of fluid such as air comprising a paramagnetic component such as Ois directed toward the mechanical membrane and the paramagnetic component is typically attracted toward a magnetic field surrounding a pore while diamagnetic components such as Nare generally repelled. Such an apparatus and method may be utilized for the magnetic separation of paramagnetic components from a mixture in a variety of environments and applications requiring tonnage quantities of oxygen.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The apparatus disclosed provides a mechanical membrane for the separation of a paramagnetic component from a fluid comprising the paramagnetic component such as the separation of oxygen from air. The mechanical membrane comprises a supporting material with a first surface and a second surface generally opposite the first surface with the supporting material surrounding a plurality of magnetic apertures. Each magnetic aperture comprises a pore extending through the supporting material and comprising a first pore opening and a second pore opening and a plurality of magnetic regions around at least the first opening. The magnetic regions are arranged to provide a pore magnetic field comprising a first magnetic field portion above the first pore opening and a second magnetic field portion above the second pore opening with the magnitude of the first magnetic field portion exceeding the magnitude of the second magnetic field portion. In a particular embodiment the field strength of the first magnetic field portion is equal to at least 1.5 times the field strength of the second magnetic field portion. The magnetic regions may comprise a functionally graded material around each pore or may comprise a series of permanent magnets.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a mechanical membrane utilizing magnetic fields for he separation of a paramagnetic component in a fluid.

The disclosure provides an apparatus and method for the separation of a paramagnetic component from a mixture using a mechanical membrane apparatus. The mechanical membrane comprises a supporting material having a plurality of pores where each pore extends through the supporting material and where each pore is surrounded by a plurality of magnetic regions arranged to augment a magnetic field on one side of the supporting material while mitigating the field to near zero on the opposite side. The arrangement of the magnetic regions is analogous to a Halbach array and the magnetic regions are positioned around each pore such that the magnetic moments around the pore are spatially rotated with respect to neighboring magnetic regions. In operation a flow of fluid such as air comprising a paramagnetic component such as Ois directed toward the mechanical membrane and the paramagnetic component is typically attracted toward a magnetic field surrounding a pore while diamagnetic components such as Nare generally repelled. As some portion of the fluid passes through the plurality of magnetic apertures to the opposite side of the mechanical membrane the mechanical membrane generates a fluid enriched in the paramagnetic component. Alternately the magnetic field may act to repel the paramagnetic component while diamagnetic components such as Nare generally unaffected and pass to the opposite side of the mechanical membrane.

An embodiment of the apparatus and method is illustrated a . depicts a mechanical membrane e generally at where mechanical membrane is comprised of supporting material and a plurality of magnetic apertures such as those represented generally at and . Supporting material has a first surface and a second surface opposite first surface and each magnetic aperture comprises a pore such as pore . Pore extends through supporting material and comprises a first pore opening opening to the first surface and a second pore opening opening to the second surface . Additionally at least first pore opening is surrounded by a magnetic area generating a magnetic field. The magnetic field comprises a first magnetic field portion Band a second magnetic field portion B and the field strength of Bis greater than the field strength of B . Typically the B B is tailored to optimize the separation rates specific to a given apparatus. In an embodiment the field strength of Bis equal to at least 1.5 times the field strength of Bwhen the field strengths are determined through magnetometry above the first pore opening second pore opening respectively. In operation a fluid flow Gis directed to first surface of mechanical membrane and first magnetic field portion Btends to attract paramagnetic constituents within Gwhile tending to repel diamagnetic constituents. For example when Gis air comprising Osuch as Omolecule and further comprising Nsuch as Nmolecule first magnetic field portion Btends to attract Omolecule and repel Nmolecule . As a result first magnetic field portion Bpreferentially allowing Oconstituents to pass through first pore opening pore and second pore opening generating a resulting fluid flow Genriched in the oxygen constituent such as Omolecule . Alternatively the magnetic area around the first pore opening may be established so that the first magnetic field portion Btends to repel Omolecule and allow Nmolecule to pass through first pore opening pore and second pore opening generating the resulting fluid flow Genriched in the diamagnetic constituent.

A specific illustration of a magnetic aperture comprising the mechanical membrane is illustrated at with orientation in accordance with the x y z axis shown where z extends out of the page. At the magnetic aperture comprises a pore where pore is surrounded by magnetic area . A portion of the supporting material which separates the plurality of magnetic apertures of the mechanical membrane is additionally illustrated. The magnetic area around pore comprises a plurality of magnetic regions and and each magnetic region generates a magnetic field. The magnetic fields are represented as respective magnetic moments extending from the south pole of the magnetic field to the not h pole of the magnetic field and are illustrated as M M M M M M M and Mcorresponding to magnetic regions and respectively. The magnetic moments have direction as indicated by the corresponding arrows where a circled dot indicated a direction out of the page and an x indicates a direction into the page. As illustrated the magnetic moments are spatially rotated with respect to neighboring magnetic moments to mimic configuration generally known as a Halbach array. Correspondingly the plurality of magnetic regions interact to concentrate the magnetic field above pore . This is illustrated generally .

As discussed the mechanical membrane comprises a plurality of magnetic apertures. In a particular embodiment some portion of the magnetic apertures are separated from another portion of the magnetic apertures by some portion of the support material. In another embodiment each magnetic aperture is separated from every other magnetic aperture in the plurality by at least some portion of the support material. Typically the support material is selected to mitigate attraction repulsion of the paramagnetic component to the support material relative to the magnetic apertures. In a particular embodiment the support material comprises a particular material having a maximum energy product BHand the magnetic regions comprise a magnetic material having a maximum energy product BH and BHis less than 25 of BH such that BH

In the above descriptions and elsewhere support material means a material having a first surface and a second surface opposite the first surface so that some portion of the support material lies between the first surface and the second surface. The first surface and the second surface may be any shape planar or curved. In an embodiment the first surface and or second surface is generally planar conical cylindrical or some combination.

Additionally a pore as used in this disclosure means a volume which extends through the support material from the e first surface to the second surface. A first pore opening means an opening which places the volume and an environment contacting the first surface in fluid communication. In an embodiment the first pore opening is bounded by a magnetic area of a magnetic aperture. A second pore opening means an opening which places the volume and an environment contacting the second surface in fluid communication In an embodiment the first pore opening has an average inner radius of less than 7 mm preferably less than 5 mm where the average inner radius is the average distance from the centroid of the first pore to the boundary of the first pore opening In another embodiment the first pore is circular and the average inner radius is the radius of the circle.

Additionally a magnetic area means an area comprised of a plurality of magnetic regions. A magnetic region means a portion of the mechanical membrane that produces a magnetic field greater than that of the supporting material. Typically the magnetic region comprises magnetic materials exhibiting a BHof at least 1 MGOe. In an embodiment the magnetic materials comprise at least 50 wt. of a magnetic region. In another embodiment the magnetic materials comprise at least 50 wt. of all magnetic regions around a given pore in the plurality of magnetic apertures. In an embodiment the magnetic area has an average outer radius and a ratio of the average outer radius to the average inner radius of the pore is equal to at least 2.5 where the average outer radius is the average distance from the centroid of the first pore to the outer boundary of the magnetic region The outer boundary means a closed shape delineating a boundary between the plurality of magnetic areas surrounding a first pore opening and the support material. In an embodiment the outer boundary is the closed shape having the smallest area which surrounds all the magnetic regions in a magnetic ea of a given magnetic aperture in a particular embodiment where the magnetic regions comprise at least 50 wt. of a magnetic material and the support material comprises at least 50 wt. of the particular material the outer boundary is a closed shape separating the magnetic regions and the support material where the magnetic material and the particular material is as earlier defined.

Additionally when a magnetic area is around a first pore opening this means the plurality of magnetic regions is arranged such that magnetic moments of the magnetic regions generate a magnetic field comprising a first magnetic field portion above the first pore opening and a second magnetic field portion above the second pore opening where the magnitude of the first magnetic field portion is greater than the magnitude of the second magnetic field portion. Here above with respect to a given pore opening for a specific pore means a point on a line extending through the first pore opening and the second pore opening where the point is outside the volume of the specific pore and where a displacement between the point and the givers pore is less than a displacement between the point and the other pore opening of the given pore. In an embodiment the line extends through the centroid of the first pore opening and the centroid of the second pore opening. In another embodiment a first point above a first pore opening and a second point above the second pore opening are equidistant from the centroid of the pore volume. In a particular embodiment the first field strength B is determined at the first point and the second field strength B is determined at the second point and the first field strength B is at least equal to 1.5 times the second field strength B. For example at first point Pand second point Pare equidistant from the centroid Cof pore and the magnitude of the first magnetic field portion Bat Pis greater than the magnitude of the second magnetic field portion Bat P and in an embodiment at least 1.5 times greater.

Additionally paramagnetic component means an atom molecule or other material which may be attracted by the first magnetic field portion above the first pore opening of a magnetic aperture as disclosed herein. In an embodiment the paramagnetic component is Oand the fluid air is comprised predominantly of a mixture of paramagnetic Oand diamagnetic N.

As discussed the magnetic moment of a given magnetic region in a magnetic area around a pore is spatially rotated with respect to the neighboring magnetic moments of other magnetic regions adjacent to the given magnetic region. For example illustrates a section of a magnetic aperture comprising a section of support material surrounding a section of pore and magnetic regions and illustrated with respect to the x y z axes shown where z proceeds out of the page. illustrates the same magnetic aperture with y proceeding into the page and illustrates magnetic regions and as and respectively and illustrates support material as and along with first surface and second surface . The magnetic moment and orientation is illustrated for each magnetic region at as M M M M M and M. In the example at the magnetic moment of a given magnetic region is spatially rotated around the z axis with respect to the magnetic moment of an adjacent magnetic region. Additionally the spatial rotation is in a consistent rotational direction when for each magnetic region the adjacent magnetic region is displaced from the given magnetic region in a positive direction along the x axis. A similar relationship results when for each magnetic region the adjacent magnetic region is displaced in a negative direction along the x axis. In a particular embodiment the plurality of magnetic regions comprising the magnetic area of a magnetic aperture comprises a first magnetic region such as having a first magnetic moment such as Min a first direction where the first direction extends in a direction from the second surface such as to the first surface such as of a support material and a second magnetic region such as having a first magnetic moment such as Min a second direction where the second direction extends in a direction from the first surface to the second surface of the support material. This embodiment further comprises one or more intermediate regions between the first magnetic region and the second magnetic region such as magnetic region having magnetic moment M where the magnetic moment of the intermediate magnetic region is spatially rotated in a specific direction of rotation with respect to the first magnetic moment and where the second magnetic moment is spatially rotated in the specific direction of rotation with respect to the intermediate magnetic moment. For example at Mis rotated in a counter clockwise direction with respect to M and Mis rotated in a counter clockwise direction with respect to M. Here the specific direction of rotation means a direction of rotation having the smallest angular displacement between two directions. A similar relationship exists when magnetic regions and or are included in the one or more intermediate magnetic regions. In a further embodiment a magnetic region comprises at least 4 magnetic regions including a first magnetic region with the magnetic moment in the first direction a second magnetic region with the magnetic moment in the second direction and at least two intermediate regions. For example with magnetic region having magnetic moment Min a first direction magnetic region having magnetic moment Min a second direction and intermediate magnetic regions and between magnetic regions and where magnetic moments Mand Mare spatially rotated as previously described.

The magnetic regions around a pore in a magnetic aperture may comprise a plurality of permanent magnets or may comprise a Functionally Graded Material fabricated such that the regions around the plurality of poles exhibit magnetic moments corresponding to the orientations described herein. As is understood in FGMs the composition and structure gradually change over volume resulting in corresponding changes in the properties of the material FGMs possess varying microstructural and mechanical properties and are typically multi phase systems synthesized such that the composition of one or more constituents changes with respect to direction generally yielding a predetermined composition profile. See e.g. Sobczak J. Drenchev L. 2009 among others. Functionally graded permanent magnets are known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 520 941 issued to Nakamura et al. issued Apr. 21 2009.

The mechanical membrane may be utilized for the separation of a paramagnetic component from a fluid by using a forced circulation means such as forced circulation means at to generate a flow comprising a paramagnetic component such as the fluid flow G. The fluid may be gaseous or liquid and the forced circulation means may be any device which imparts momentum to a fluid using mechanical action. For example the forced circulation means may be a mechanical fan comprising a rotating arrangement of vanes or blades acting on the fluid to generate the flow or a positive displacement device such as a pump or compressor. The fluid flow may be ported into a fluid reservoir in fluid communication with the first pore openings of the plurality of magnetic apertures and and ported toward the toward the first surface of supporting material . Some portion of the fluid flow Gcontacts the plurality of magnetic apertures and interacts with the first magnetic field portions of the magnetic apertures. In an embodiment paramagnetic constituents such as Oare attracted to the first magnetic field portions while diamagnetic components such as Nare repelled and the paramagnetic components pass through the first pore openings to generate an enriched flow. In another embodiment paramagnetic constituents are repelled by the first magnetic field portions while diamagnetic components are relatively unaffected or attracted and the diamagnetic components pass through the first pore openings to generate the enriched flow. The enriched flow may issue through the second pore openings of the mechanical membrane and into separated component reservoir .

In another embodiment the mechanical membrane comprises a system for the separation of a paramagnetic component. The system comprises the forced circulation means generating a fluid flow Gcontaining the paramagnetic component and fluid reservoir in fluid communication with forced circulation means and receiving the fluid flow G. The system further comprises the mechanical membrane having characteristics as previously described with the first magnetic field portions such as Bof the magnetic apertures extending into the fluid flow G. The system further comprises the first pore openings of the magnetic apertures receiving an enriched fluid and the second pore openings of the magnetic apertures issuing the enriched fluid. The system may additionally comprise a separated component reservoir in fluid communication with the second pore openings and receiving the enriched fluid.

Thus disclosed here is an apparatus and method for the separation of a paramagnetic component from a mixture using a mechanical membrane apparatus. The mechanical membrane comprises a supporting material having pores extending through the supporting material and a plurality of magnetic regions around each pore to augment a magnetic field on a first surface while mitigating the field to near zero on a second surface. In operation a flow of fluid such as air comprising a paramagnetic component is directed toward the mechanical membrane and the paramagnetic component is typically attracted toward a magnetic field surrounding a pore while diamagnetic components are generally repelled. The mechanical membrane acts to generate a fluid enriched in either the paramagnetic or diamagnetic components. The mechanical membrane is particularly useful for generating an enriched stream comprising oxygen from a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen such as air.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

