---

title: Method for providing support using answer engine and dialog rules
abstract: According to one embodiment, a self-service system is to provide self-support knowledgebase (KB) information to allow users to navigate the self-support KB. A monitor is to track user interaction with the self-support KB while a user navigates through the self-support KB. An answer engine is to receive a query from the user to ask a question and in response to the query, to identify a predefined response to the query in view of a set of dialog rules. The answer engine is to transmit one or more related questions that the user will likely ask based on the dialog rules and the user interaction. The answer engine further transmits an invitation to allow the user to initiate a live support session after a predetermined condition has been satisfied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336526&OS=09336526&RS=09336526
owner: TELETECH HOLDINGS, INC.
number: 09336526
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150420
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 014 148 filed Aug. 29 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 720 292 filed Oct. 30 2012. The disclosure of the above applications is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to a service center for providing support services on products and services on behalf of goods and service providers. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to providing support services using an answer engine and a set of dialog rules.

Prior to the advent and prolific use of distributed network environments such as the Internet customer service sessions typically occurred over a teleconference between a customer service agent or service specialist and a customer. These teleconferences which incidentally are still very popular today are initiated by a customer placing a phone call to a customer service agent. The customer service agent s phone receives the call through a public switched telephone network PSTN . Many support centers handle a large volume of inquiries usually by phone for sales information customer support and other services. Typical support centers provide the ability to route multiple incoming customer initiated calls to agents which provide sales information or support on behalf of an entity interested in establishing or maintaining a relationship with the customer.

Modern support center systems selectively route incoming calls based on a number of factors such as the number called or dialed the originating number the queued sequence of the caller the geographic location of the caller accumulated caller history and other relevant criteria. Once the system has evaluated the inbound caller s information if any the system searches for an available agent to service the call. Availability of agents may be dependent on any number of factors such as a skill area level of that skill and or a schedule of the agent. The number of agents within the contact center and available to the system may often be limited by the physical space available for the agents to operate. Contact centers have to deal with a limited number of agents to handle a large number of incoming customer calls. Typically when an end user initiates a contact with the service center the end user has to know or maintain the detailed information regarding how to reach people and or obtain services from the service center.

Traditional contact centers bring all interactions such as voice email chat into a single location in which a large staffing of agents are setup to handle. Over the past several years many companies have looked for lower cost staffing by leveraging large business process outsourcing or BPO s that could leverage their off shore locations with large staffing of agents that work at a much lower cost distributing the traffic across such locations. They have also reached out to associates working from their homes as a way to reduce costs. What was not considered or leveraged was utilizing the associates already supporting users in a face to face setting such as a retail or business establishment where the Associates deal with situations daily and are subject matter experts SME s for the products and services of the establishment in which they are employed.

Technology is reaching into these establishments giving them the ability to provide more services for their patrons. Retail and other businesses still have problems with finding the right people to support their customer base especially since they are only able to where they can train those individuals who are employed by them. Outsourcing has been a trend for many years leveraging SME s in a contact center but these individuals are trained by the manufacturer regarding the services they have put in the field for consumers and do not always hear or get involved with the customer regarding problems encountered with these services and products as the retail associates do. The retail establishments get hit with these problems and are on the front lines dealing with each customer that walks through their doors.

Various embodiments and aspects of the inventions will be described with reference to details discussed below and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the various embodiments. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in conjunction with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

According to some embodiments a support service center which logically running at a server hardware is designed to have the ability to place support agents also referred to as associates subject matter experts or SMEs in a place that best utilizes their skill sets for both in person and now remote support of their customers. The service center is a critical and mandatory element of the solution enabling the applications made available to both customers and the associates. These applications communicate with the service center allowing the necessary connectivity no matter where the associate is located geographically.

A customer is empowered with a mobile application for their smart phone or can access services via the service center from their computer Web browser. An associate too can leverage an associate desktop when in a position at their desktop. With the advent of the smart phone they too can run a mobile associate application providing them with many of the same capabilities they would normally have at their desktop. This mobile associate application allows them the ability to truly be a remote mobile SME while they continue to support customers face to face in their respective retail establishments.

According to one embodiment a set of dialog rules defining a set of actions to be triggered based on user questions asked whether input as free form natural language or a link clicked on from a dynamic list of questions of the same category that can be utilized in conjunction with the self support service system. An answer engine is configured to automatically identify from either a user input a natural language question or an automated input priming question canned question configured to be asked automatically based on the navigation selection tile or link from the users navigation menu of the mobile application one or more predefined questions having an answer in the knowledge system. In response to a query submitted from a customer for example via a self support system such as self support Web site or knowledgebase KB . The query may be submitted from a mobile application of a mobile device associated with the customer. Based on the user interaction with the self support KB a subject matter of the self support KB is determined based on the user interaction with the self support system. Based on the submitted query from the user and the subject matter being navigated at the point in time one or more predefined questions are identified and transmitted to the mobile device of the customer and displayed by the mobile application. The predefined questions are related to the question asked by the user based on an analysis of the question being asked and the user interaction with the self support KB. The predefined questions may be previously compiled based on the prior support experience with other users on the same or similar products. The predefined questions are the questions a user who navigates the same or similar subject matter of the self support KB would more likely ask. Each predefined question is presented as executable or accessible link displayed on a display of the user s mobile device.

When the answer engine receives a user activation of one of the links associated with the predefined questions the answer engine retrieves the corresponding predefined answer or answers from a database and transmits the predefined answer or answers to the mobile device of the customer. In addition a set of business rules are also defined to allow the answer engine also referred to as a dialog canvas engine or simply dialog canvas to determine whether a live support session with a support agent is needed. The set of business rules also referred to as dialog canvas rules may be configured on a per client per product and or per project of a product of a client basis. The business rules for different projects and or products of a client may be identical or different. These business rules can support as an example but no limited to identification of the number of questions that can be asked by a user before offering a live support channel the number of answered or unanswered questions asked by a user before offering a live support channel If it is determined that a live support session is needed based on the associated business rules the dialog canvas is to transmit an invitation to the customer s mobile device to invite the customer to initiate a live support session either chat or voice enabled session . In response to the customer s acceptance of the invitation a live support session is established between a support agent and the customer.

For example a support agent may be a product specialist working at a retail store that promotes a particular product while the support agent is also subcontracted by the service center to provide support services to remote customers for that particular product. Since the retail store typically has the product set up for demonstration purposes when possible e.g. no walk in customers present at the moment the support agent can provide a live support session to a remote customer for the service center via the mobile application of its mobile device. The support agent can utilize a video chat session to demonstrate to the remote customer the usage of the product from the retail store. Compared to conventional customer support over the phone or email a picture or video is worth a thousand words especially with the specialized skill set of the support agent from the retail store. As a result the special knowledge or skill set of the support agent can be fully utilized regardless of where the support agent is located.

In one embodiment service center includes a support service system a self support system and a multi channel communications and routing system MCRS . Self support system is to provide a self support knowledgebase KB that can be accessed by users where the self support KB may be generated based on KB that contains certain materials that have been compiled based on previous support information and or product information. The self support KB may be provided by self support system in a form of Web page via a Web server not shown where the Web platform may be hosted by a third party and communicatively coupled to self support system of service center . The self support KB is to provide a self support platform to allow users to navigate the self support KB information in an attempt to find a solution to its problem in question without having to contact a support agent for live support. If after navigating the self support KB the customer still wants to have a live support session with a support agent the customer can initiate a live support request to service center .

According to one embodiment support service system is to manage support service sessions between users and support agents. Support service system may include a registration system to allow users to register products owned by the users and to allow a support agent to register and log in to provide live support services to the users. In response to a request for live support support service system generates a support case context based on the user information client and product information and other related information e.g. user interactive history . Support service system then routes the case context to a selected support agent to enable the support agent to have all the related information in front of him her while conducting a live support session with a user.

According to one embodiment support service system includes an agent manager and agent states where agent states include information indicating the statuses of support agents including the current availability of the support agents. In one embodiment an agent mobile application is provided and installed in an agent mobile device where agent mobile application is to communicate with various components of service center . When agent mobile application is launched from agent mobile device it communicates with support service system and prompts the agent to enter necessary credentials e.g. username password fingerprint recognition voice recognition and or face recognition to log into service center . Upon having successfully authenticated agent support service system updates the status of agent in agent states which may be stored in an agent database. In addition agent may further indicate whether the agent is available or willing to accept any live or near live support request from a user as well as certain preferred communications channels e.g. voice chat video email SMS to be utilized in a live support session. Agent state information can include information on communications sessions currently active for the agent.

According to one embodiment agent states may further include information indicating the geographical location at which the agent is currently located which may be determined via a location service obtained using a global positioning system GPS sensor of agent mobile device . For example agent states may include information indicating that the agent is currently located at a retail store that promotes one or more particular products or services. Further agent states may include information indicating that whether the agent mobile device is capable of conducting certain types of live support sessions such as a video chat session as well as whether the corresponding agent is willing or comfortable to conduct such live support sessions.

Similarly according to one embodiment a user mobile application is provided and installed in a user mobile device where user mobile application can access self support KB and communicate with self support system while the user navigates the self support KB. Similar to agent mobile application user mobile application may require user provide necessary credentials e.g. username password fingerprint recognition voice recognition and or face recognition . Self support system may communicate with mobile application and or the Web interface or server that hosts the self support KB to monitor user interaction with the self support KB. Self support system may further determine a subject matter of the self support KB currently navigated by the user based on the user interaction. One or more skill set candidates required to handle the subject matter may also be identified based on the subject matter at the point in time. As a result when a live support request is received from the user a final skill set can be quickly selected from the skill set candidates and an appropriate support agent can be identified.

According to one embodiment the self support KB can be provided in a variety of ways such as Web pages via a Web server e.g. Wikipedia Facebook discussion forum etc. . Alternatively the self support KB can also be presented via a set of route sequences having a sequence of information elements that can be routed by route sequence manager to user mobile application dependent upon the specific user interaction with the route sequence at the point in time based on one or more of route sequence maps . A route sequence map represents a collection of route sequences pulled together allowing a variety of operations to be performed via a service center and initiated from a single application. A route sequence map can be utilized as a road map or navigation map allowing a user navigating elements or nodes of the route sequence map to reach certain resources available from the service center without requiring the user to specifically provide detailed information at runtime. Route sequence maps may be defined according to a requirement of a specific project or product of a particular client. Route sequence maps may be stored in a client database associated with that particular client. Different route sequence maps may be defined for different clients. For example route sequence maps associated with a client in the banking industry may be different than the one in the computer industry.

In addition according to one embodiment during the navigation of the self support KB a user can also ask a question that can be automatically answered by answer engine also referred to as a dialog canvas engine based on a set of dialog rules in response to the question being asked without involving any live support personnel. For example a self support KB presentation may include a button or link that allows a user to submit a question concerning a subject matter being navigated at the point in time. In response to the question answer engine may analyze the question received from the user. Note that a question may be received via voice recognition in the application. In such a situation voice recognition or a speech to text process may also be performed. Based on the analysis answer engine is to identify one or more predefined answers or responses based on dialog rules . In one embodiment dialog rules define a set of rules that under certain circumstances a response or answer to a particular question may be utilized. The predefined answers may be categorized under different subject matters of the self support KB. When a question is received the subject matter being navigated at the point in time may also be utilized to identify a proper answer. The selected answer is then transmitted to user mobile device and presented by user mobile application .

In addition according to one embodiment based on the analysis one or more related questions which a user under the similar circumstances will likely ask are identified based on dialog rules . The related questions are also transmitted to user mobile device and presented by user mobile application in addition to the primary answer response to the question asked by the user. The related questions may be presented in a form of links that can be activated. When the user clicks or says on one of the related question links a question identifier identifying the selected related question is transmitted to service center and handled by answer engine . In response answer engine retrieves the corresponding answer which may include further related questions and transmits it to user mobile device .

According to one embodiment after navigating some materials and asking some questions if a user is still not satisfied the user may want to have a live discussion with a support agent. In one embodiment the user may activate a link or button within the dialog canvas page to initiate a live support session. In another embodiment business rules may be triggered and may initiate by prompting the user whether the user wishes to have a live discussion with a support agent based on the user interaction and in view of the dialog rules which may be configurable by an administrator of a client. For example business rules may trigger in the dialog canvas and may invite the user to have a live session after a predetermined number of questions that the user has asked which may be defined as part of business rules . Business rules may trigger in the dialog canvas and may invite the user for a live session when the user has stayed in the same subject matter for a predetermined period of time. Business rules may trigger in the dialog canvas to invite the user for a live session when the user has navigated at a certain detailed level of a particular subject matter. Note that business rules may define a variety of conditions before inviting the user for a live session such as for example number of questions to be asked and or answered when to offer chat vs. voice live session etc. Each client may have different sets of rules. Different product of the same client may also have different sets of rules. Further different rules may also be applied to different types of users e.g. loyal customers .

Once user requests or accepts an invitation to a live session support service system is to compile and generate a support case context based on various data including contact information of user the product service in question a subject matter of the product service in question questions asked and answered by answer engine user s interactive history related to the product service in question user s preferred communications methods e.g. voice vs. non voice communications channels etc. . In addition agent manager of support service system is to identify one or more support agents that qualify for the skill set required to handle the subject matter in question where the skill set may be determined while the user navigates the self support KB at the point in time.

Agent manager further identifies which of the qualified support agents are available based on agent states and select one of the available support agent. Agent manager may transmit a query to the corresponding agent mobile application of a mobile device associated with the selected agent in this example agent mobile application of agent mobile device to prompt whether the agent is willing to accept the live support session. If a positive response is received MCRS is to establish a live or near live communications session such as a video chat session between user and agent . In one embodiment multiple sessions may be simultaneously established between user and agent including a voice channel and a non voice channel e.g. chat SMS Twitter Facebook email . As a result agent can talk to user over a voice or video session while exchanging information over a non voice channel concurrently such as chatting sharing a document referencing to a universal resource locator or URL link etc. Since agent uses its mobile device with agent mobile application running therein agent can technically be anywhere.

In one embodiment support agent may be a product specialist working at a retail store that promotes or showcases a particular product while support agent is also subcontracted by the service center to provide support services to remote customers for that particular product. Since the retail store typically has the product set up for demonstration purposes when possible e.g. no walk in customers present support agent can provide a live support session to a remote customer for the service center via the mobile application of its mobile device. The support agent can utilize a video chat session to demonstrate to the remote customer the usage of the product from the retail store or other remote location. Compared to conventional customer support over the phone or email a picture or video is worth a thousand words especially together with the specialized skill set of the support agent from the retail store. As a result the special knowledge or skill set of the support agent can be fully utilized regardless where the support agent is located.

Guided support rules or algorithms may be designed and configured specifically tailored to the representation currently navigated by the user at user mobile device . For example guided support rules or algorithms may specify the overall support subject matter for the topic of the presentation. Guided support rules or algorithms may also include specific support subject matters for different parts links or paths within the presentation. When a user interacts with a different section of the presentation it may yield a different support subject matter. In one embodiment the captured user interaction may further include an amount of time the user has spent on a specific section of the presentation. Such an amount of time may be utilized as a weight factor in deciding which of the support subject matters will prevail.

Once the support subject matter has been determined analysis module is configured to determine one or more skill set that are required to provide the associated support services based on support subject matter and a skill set mapping database or table not shown . The skill set may be utilized to identify one or more agents to be recommended to the user of remote device as recommended agents. Subject matter and the skill set mapping table includes information identifying one or more skill sets that are required to provide support services for a particular support subject matter. Subject matter and the skill set mapping table may optionally include information identifying one or more agents or specialists that qualify for each of the skill sets.

In addition according to one embodiment user agent preferences are maintained in user database associated with a user. That is each user has its own agent preferences respectively for example dependent upon previous experience of previous support sessions. Agent preferences include a variety of information concerning the agents known to a particular user such as agent identifiers ratings e.g. ratings rated by all users in general and or a specific rating rated by the particular user and or other information e.g. history products subject matters etc. .

When the user initiates a live support from user mobile device for example by activating a live support button or control from the presentation after navigating the presentation a live support request is received by support service system . This could be a situation in which after the user has navigated a certain section of the presentation the user still does not quite understand or is not satisfied with the description. The user may want to have a live session such a video chat session with a specialist to further discuss further details. In one embodiment the live support button was not available in the presentation initially. Based on the analysis of the user interaction and or the business rules associated with the product project and or the client analysis module may determine that the user may wish to have a live support session at a certain point in time. As a result guided support identification system may cause user mobile device to present a live support control or button or link to the user which may be in a form of a displayed button a voice activated control or a combination of both to allow the user to initiate a live support session.

In response to the live support request in one embodiment case management module touch plan engine is configured to receive a list of one or more recommended skill sets provided by guided support identification system and or one or more preferred agents of the user retrieved from user agent preferences . Based on the skill sets and user agent preferences agent manager is to identify and select an appropriate agent from agent database that qualifies the skill sets and is also available to conduct a live support session based on agent states . Agent database further stores information concerning the capability or functionality of agent mobile device such as video chat capability. Agent database may further store information indicating whether the corresponding agent is part of a retail store and or specialized in handling the subject matter in question and or a specific type of products or services.

In addition case management module or touch plan engine is configured to compile and generate support case context based on information from data warehouse including user information client information product information user interaction history etc. Support case context is then provided to multi channel communications and routing system to be routed to agent where case context is presented to agent as part of a screen pop at a mobile device of the agent. As a result when agent communicates with the user of user mobile device agent has all the necessary information concerning the user and the product in question.

Furthermore according to one embodiment at a conclusion of the live support session a survey module not shown is configured to transmit a survey to user mobile device to allow the user to provide a feedback such as a rating concerning quality of the selected agent. The feedback is utilized to update the ratings of the selected agent in general as well as a rating of the agent as a preferred agent associated with the user. Such a rating may affect a subsequent selection of recommended agent candidates and preferred agent candidates.

According to one embodiment the self support KB may further include a query interface such as a search field to allow user to submit a query concerning a question of the subject matter in question. In response to query answer engine is to analyze query and identify one or more answers from predefined questions and answers . The query is analyzed and the answers are identified automatically without any human activity involved. The identified answers are then transmitted to user s mobile device . In addition according to one embodiment based on the analysis of query one or more related questions or topics may also be identified and transmitted to mobile device . The related questions may be presented as links which when activated an identifier associated with the activated related question or topic is transmitted back to answer engine via interface . In response answer engine is to retrieve the corresponding answer from predefined questions answers and transmit the same to user accordingly. Predefined questions answers may be configured by an administrator via configuration interface which may be a Web interface or an API. Interfaces and may be implemented as the same or different interfaces. Similarly business dialog rules may be configured via configuration interface and rule engine . Note that some or all of the components as shown in may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof.

The techniques described above with respect to system of are referred to as Universal Canvas and Dialog which is a technology with a unique combination of capabilities used in conjunction with the multi channel navigator application e.g. mobile application and the service center to allow for a seamless communication and conversation between a customer and an associate. These conversations can be performed via mobile to mobile or mobile to Web sessions. All communications between the customer and the associate are tracked by the service center. The service center is a critical component of the solution brokering all communication routing events messaging etc. between the customer and the associate. The data collected can be used for triggering processes skill selection prioritization reporting monitoring and analytics to name a few.

The Canvas is the backdrop for the multi channel delivery of communications to a customer. The Canvas is a unique piece of software allowing a blend of a variety of channels used to support a customer for nearly any type of business. According to certain embodiments the Canvas allows direct voice callback upon channel request direct video callback upon channel request direct chat upon channel request direct SMS upon channel request direct chat with up channel to voice callback upon channel request direct chat with up channel to video callback upon channel request direct answer engine self help direct answer engine up channel to SMS chat voice video etc and associate push commands.

The Dialog is the series of nested actions within the canvas pulled together allowing for the best user experience while in a support or service session. The dialog is best used with the self service knowledge engine and a combination of real time and near real time channels such as voice video chat SMS Twitter Facebook etc. The Canvas rules engine e.g. rule engine is a component of the service center allowing the ability to set the appropriate rules for a given client project. Some of the rules that can be set include 1 number of questions a customer must ask prior to offering an up channel capability voice video chat SMS etc. 2 allowed channels to be used for a client project and offered to customers 3 allowed channel combinations to be used for a client project and offered to customers 4 to show wait time messages to customers for a given channel and 5 allowed push commands to a customer from an associate.

While in a dialog session of a canvas any combination of functions can be leveraged as long as the proper business restrictions are made for the customers utilizing the services. The following dialog functions are possible but not limited to within the Canvas.

Initially information of context elements of the root level of a route sequence map is received at the client device via a published API. In this example graphical representations of the context elements are displayed as the most inner or bottom row or ring . A graphical representation can be an icon a thumbnail image a logo etc. In this example ring includes multiple graphical representations such as Login Billing Family Service etc. A user can select any of these graphical representations which may represent one of a navigation context element or an action context element. When the user selects a graphical representation a message is transmitted from the application via a published API to the service center where the message includes an identifier of the selected graphical representation. The service center can identify the corresponding context element referred to herein as a selected context element based on the identifier. If the selected context element is an action context element the service center is to perform an action specified in a property of the selected context element.

If the selected context element is a navigation context element the service center identifies one or more child context elements associated with the selected context element. The service center returns data representing child context elements to the application via a published API. In this example as shown in it is assumed that the user selects Login graphical representation which may be displayed in an enlarged form higher resolution or a different color or shape compared to the unselected graphical representations. Once the Login graphical representation is selected an outer or upper ring is displayed while the selected graphical representation Login remains highlighted. The graphical representations of ring can be scrolled spun or rotated for example by pressing the arrow buttons on either side of the ring or by swiping using a finger on a touch sensitive screen.

In this example each of the graphical representations Login Billing Family and Service corresponds to one of the context elements in the corresponding route sequence map which when activated the corresponding context will be retrieved from the service center and displayed. For example an activation of Login leads according to the corresponding sequence route map to ring having child elements AE Top Sug AE Voice Button and AE Chat Button etc. When ring is displayed it becomes a current or active ring which will be displayed in a larger image or higher resolution or a different color and or shape while the parent ring will be displayed as a previous or inactive ring in a smaller image or lower resolution or a different color and or shape .

In this example it is assumed that the user activates AE Top Sug. In response a preconfigured message associated with AE Top Sug will be retrieved from the answer engine of the service center and displayed as shown in . Referring to message has been previously configured to be associated with a node corresponding to AE Top Sug in the sequence route map for example via a rule engine and or answer engine of the service center. In addition a search or query field is also displayed to allow the user to ask a question via button or via a voice interactive command via button . From field a user can ask any question he she might have. Once the user submitted a question via field the question is transmitted by the mobile application to the service center and handled by the answer engine as described above.

According to one embodiment the answer engine is to analyze the question submitted from the user and to identify one or more answers based on the analysis. Such an analysis is performed automatically by the answer engine without any human intervention e.g. no support agents are involved . In addition optionally one or more related questions may also be identified. Such related questions are those other users in similar circumstances e.g. asking the same or similar question may also ask as follow up questions. The answers and or the related questions are then transmitted to the mobile device and displayed by the mobile application as shown in . Referring to questions may answers to a question submitted by the user in a form of narrower questions in an attempt to ascertain the user s intent. Alternatively questions may be predicted follow up questions the user may possibly ask based on an analysis of the initial question submitted from the user.

As described above for each project or product of a client a set of business or dialog rules is configured and stored in a rule database of the service center. Such rules determine certain actions to be performed under certain conditions. According to one embodiment if a predetermined condition has been satisfied e.g. a number of questions asked by the user or a number of user interactions with the presented information exceeds a predetermined threshold the answer engine of the service center may transmit a message to the mobile application to invite the user to initiate a live support session. As shown in assuming that the predetermined condition has been satisfied a prompt is displayed to invite the user to initiate a live support session with a support agent of the service center. In the embodiment as shown in the service center prompts the user for a phone number that a support agent can reach at the point in time if known in a user profile the support center can send the application the users number the user would then just confirm . Once the user provides a phone number the MCRS of the service center will establish a voice session between the user and a qualified support agent that is available to handle the live support session. Note that other types of communications such as chat as shown in or video may also be utilized dependent upon the specific user preferences and or client configurations as part of business dialog rules .

According to another embodiment the mobile application may retrieve a preferred phone number from the service center that the user has previously configured and stored a user account of the user. For example when the user opens an account in the service center the user may provide a set of user preferences that may include a preferred phone number that a support agent of the service center can reach the user. In this embodiment the preferred phone number may be presented to the user as part of the GUI shown in . In this example the mobile application can display the preferred phone number of the user in display area and provide an option to allow the user to deny and prefer another phone number. Assuming the user prefers another phone number the mobile application displays field to allow the user to enter a new phone number to allow a support agent to reach him her. The newly entered phone number may be cached and stored in the user account in the service center as an alternative phone number. In addition dependent upon the specific user preferences and or client configuration an alternative communication channel in this example a chat session may be presented to the user. Multiple communication sessions can be conducted simultaneously between the user and the support agent of the service center.

According to a further embodiment once the live support session has been concluded a survey is presented to the user to allow the user to enter any comments concerning the concluded live support session. are screenshots illustrating examples of survey GUIs according to some embodiments of the invention. Referring to a user can rate the support agent who just provided a live support session with the user via the GUI as shown in and to enter some comments concerning the same via the GUI as shown in . The user feedback is then transmitted back to a survey module of the service center. The user feedback may be utilized by the subsequent support agent selection processes.

According to one embodiment a request can be received from a customer based on a specific need in a specific area. Requests can come to an associate by via one or more of voice callback video callback chat SMS Twitter Facebook other channel. Session specific information is received for example in a form of support case context based on the interaction of a customer takes on the self support KB prior to requesting additional support from an associate. The case context may include navigation information from the mobile application customer contact information questions asked within the self service knowledge engine time spent in navigation knowledge engine previous customer interaction history for all channels and transcripts of text based communications. The support case context is routed to a selected associate e.g. support agent . The system includes ability of an associate to reach out to a supervisor or other associates for assistance more tenured associate SME via transfer or conference. A customer can access all support center resources such as for example self service knowledge engine case notes for interactions and computer based training learning.

Reply to customer notifications can be managed based on their application location event sent including intended meeting at the retail or business establishment and request for in store assistance etc. An associate can also be anywhere such as in a retail establishment located in another city state or country as long as the support center can route into the associate home local retail facilities or client business via IP VoIP. Facilities can be set up for a retail establishment so the support center can reach it directly or can enter via a corporation WAN secure entry and ride the customer s network to the applications. This is referred to as associates anywhere and notification features.

According to one embodiment all or most of the administration processes necessary for the associate anywhere is performed via a combination of provisioning tools in the service center including organization and client administration channel and skill administration answer rules engine self help knowledge administration reporting and real time statistics and mobile navigation designers etc. Such tools may be provided and or hosted by the service center via a Web interface e.g. cloud .

According to one embodiment a variety of connectivity options can be implemented. Direct connectivity over the internet to the service center from an associates home ISP connection including direct connectivity over a private LAN connection to the service center direct connectivity over a private WAN connection to the service center and mobile device can communicate via cellular data network where available and accessible . For example a mobile device can communicate via a Wi Fi network. A customer may need a supported mobile device IOS Android other a mobile data plan and the service center mobile application the service center takes care of the rest. With this application a customer is able to log in and authenticate be identified and made present have the ability to navigate a set of dynamically generated services supported across a diverse of companies access self help technologies select the preferred channel of communication with the associate via the support center and converse in a dialog fashion with a remote associate in the mobile canvas over a variety of channels etc.

In one embodiment an associate may need a supported mobile device e.g. iOS Android Web OS other and the service center mobile application the service center takes care of the rest. With this application an associate is able to log in and authenticate be identified and made present be dynamically mapped to the appropriate support skill set availability status not ready dealing with a user person to person ready available to assist a remote user receive associated customer information upon interaction delivery and receive customer interaction via the requested service center channel etc.

According to one embodiment to establish communications between a customer and an associate a customer needs to have the corresponding user mobile application loaded onto its mobile device Smartphone tablet etc. and up and running which may be provided by the service center or an associated client of the service center who has customized their application to incorporate the service center API access. The customer has to log into via its mobile application the service center to be identified and have access to custom navigations. Similarly an associate needs to have the corresponding agent mobile application loaded and up and running onto its mobile device Smartphone tablet etc. or access capabilities via a computers web browser which may be set up by the client project administrator for the appropriate skill as an SME to support customers requests. The associate has to log into the service center via its mobile application to be associated to the project settings established. The associate also needs to configure an available state to take customer requests when not working with a customer face to face in a local retail establishment.

For example a customer running the mobile app of the service center logs in. Once logged in the customer navigates the application to get to the specific type of request to initiate. The customer may be prompted for the channel of choice to communicate with an associate e.g. SME . Once the request and channel have been selected the mobile application sends the request to the service center. The service center receives the request identifies a number of data elements such as the customer name personal info previous contact history registered products and services customer status based on backend analysis for special treatment if any . The service center is to identify the customer on behalf of the client project for tracking reporting and analysis proposes identify the problem type requested by the customer for routing and identify the channel requested by the customer voice video chat etc. . The service center uses the above information to locate an available associate SME to service the customer where the agent must be running a mobile app or web app and has logged in and available to accept customer requests.

The service center scours a state engine looking for a remote associate regardless of physical location and the service center locates a ready and available associate and routes the customer. The state engine may maintain the statuses of support agents. The selected associate receives from the service center the customer information and interaction via the customer selected channel. The customer and associate are connected via a specific channel and interact till a problem resolution is achieved. Once the interaction is complete the connection is disconnected. A survey may be presented to the customer and the associate performs and type of wrap up work and gets ready for the next interaction.

According to one embodiment a customer is able via their retail application powered by the service center to notify an associate group manager other of their availability location whether they are close to or in the retail establishment. If the customer has the retail application running the application will perform an automated update of their location Wi Fi or GPS allowing the service center to receive and process the notification for a variety of actions.

Customer notifications to the service center can be used in a variety of ways including notifying the service center that a customer is online and using their mobile application notifying an associate group manager or other that a customer is close to an establishment notifying an associate group manager or other that a customer has entered the retail establishment and notifying an associate group manager or other that a customer currently in a retail or business establishment needs assistance within the retail establishment by requesting via their application. This is different than asking for remote assistance since the customer has a need to ask what only a local associate can support performed manually .

In one embodiment an associate locally in the establishment is to locate physical inventory that may be misplaced or not stocked on the shelf as of yet where a remote agent cannot and or walk out to a customer s car to look at whether a specific speaker will work in their car due to space. The service center may use this notification event to inform the retail establishment of their location in the event that they have a meeting to discuss a service product installation or other activity performed automatically . Customer notification events can also trigger standard and custom processes specific to the business in order to assist a customer. Customer notification responses from the service center can be used in a variety of ways including a response from an associate manager other can be sent back to the customer to signify that they are and or available ready for their meeting running late or some other condition setting the customers expectations. This is done via the associate s mobile device. They can pull up a list of previously canned responses that they have created or can enter freeform text into a text box and then submit having the support center process and send the notification response to the same customer. They can also perform a digital introduction of another person who will assist the customer in place of the original associate manager other in the event they are not at all available.

Once the agent has logged into the service center an initial support screen is displayed as shown in waiting for a live support session notification. In one embodiment the agent can indicate via the GUI not shown whether the agent is available to accept a live support. For example an agent located at a retail store may have launched the agent mobile application but is busy handling a customer at the retail location in person. According to one embodiment an agent can configure the agent mobile application in a voice mode as shown in or a non voice mode such as a chat mode as shown in indicating that the agent is willing to accept a voice or chat live support session respectively. Alternatively the agent can indicate that he she can accept a live support session via multiple communications channels. To do this the associate must be configured to allow multiple skills from the service center. In doing so the associates mobile application will show Blended followed by the channels voice chat e.g. Blended voice chat in this example letting them know that they can will be able to receive a voice or chat. The associate can also based on the rules set at the service center take both channels concurrently for the same or different users.

Command menu further includes other command buttons to conduct non voice operations for example concurrently with the voice session. In one embodiment a push URL button and a push doc button but not limited to these functions allow an agent to share a URL link and a document with the customer respectively. A safe mode button allows the agent to exchange information via a secure connection. Since these commands are for non voice only channels they are shown disabled. In one embodiment when the agent activates button a prompt is transmitted to the associated user mobile application of a user mobile device associated with a customer to ask the customer to enter a password or a personal identification number PIN to encrypt or decrypt the content exchanged during the safe mode. For example an agent may ask a customer to enter certain sensitive information such as a social security number or a credit card number in a secure way. In such a situation the customer may transmit and store sensitive information in the service center in an encrypted form that only the password or PIN entered by the customer can recover the content. Note that the support agent does not know the password or PIN entered during the safe mode. If the customer loses the password or PIN the encrypted content may never be recovered. Alternatively the password PIN may be securely stored within the service center and only sent to a customer s preconfigured email upon customer s request. The agent can also initiate or switch to a chat session via a chat button and terminate the current live session via end session button .

When the agent is selected by the service center for a live support session as described above an invitation of a voice session is received from the service center as shown in . Referring to the invitation prompt includes brief information identifying the nature or subject matter of the instant support case in this example concerning HDMI setup problem. The agent can either accept or decline the invitation which when declined the service center may locate another agent who is available to accept the voice session. If the agent accepts the voice session invitation by activating an accept button according one embodiment a support case context is received from the service center. In one embodiment the status of the customer is displayed in a status display area and detailed information of the current live session is displayed in a session detail display area as shown in .

Referring to in customer status display area detailed contact information of the customer may be displayed therein including name address phone number s email address es social networking address es etc. Current session detail display area includes all the detailed information concerning the current live support session. In one embodiment the detailed information includes the subject matter or problem the customer is currently concerned including the subject matter of the self support KB that the customer is currently navigating which is tracked and captured by a self support system of the service center. The detailed information further indicates the time the customer has spent on the navigation of the self support KB. In this example the subject matter is related to HDTV feature list and or setup information where each subject matter e.g. feature list and setup is displayed with an amount of time the customer has spent on that particular subject matter.

According to a further embodiment the detailed information displayed in display area or panel further includes the question s asked by the customer from the self support KB and the answer s automatically by an answer engine of the service center. If the agent shares a URL or document the accessible link to the shared URL or document is also displayed. The detailed information also includes the detailed information of current voice session including the time initiated and the skill set required to handle the voice call which is determined by the service center as described above the time the voice session has been pending in a queue prior to being picked by the agent and the lapsed time of the current voice session. Other information may also be included. Once the voice session has been concluded the agent can activate the wrap up button and enter any notes in panel as shown in . show similar communications in a chat session between a customer and a support agent. Particularly referring to a support agent can enter a chat mode in this example. During a chatting session the agent can also simultaneously initiate or switch to a voice session by activating start voice button as shown in . Note that the GUIs as shown in are described and shown for illustration purposes only other features layouts and configurations may also be implemented.

Service center may be implemented in a centralized facility or server with data processing hardware. Alternatively service center may be implemented in multiple facilities or servers in a distributed manner e.g. cloud based service platforms . Service center provides services to a variety of products or services from a variety of clients or vendors. For example service center may be a caller center handling a variety of support call services on products or services for a variety of goods and service providers. A client may be a manufacturer a distributor a retailer a service provider or broker a purchasing facility e.g. Amazon Expedia or ISIS or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment service center includes one or more service application programming interfaces APIs to communicate over a network with other systems such as mobile device client s site social communities contact center including agents or experts client backend systems manufacturer backend systems eCommerce sites and other auxiliary systems e.g. billing system . Service center can handle service requests from customers of multiple clients. For example service center may handle customer service requests for a number of retail sales companies sales post sales calls for catalog sales companies and patient follow up contacts for health care providers. In such a structure the service center may receive service requests directly from the customers or through client support management systems.

In one embodiment service center further includes community service system support services system route sequence manager and data warehouse . Support services system is responsible for handling support services requests from the users including identifying and registering a product creating an instance case context selecting and assigning a customer representative also referred to herein as an agent specialist or expert to provide support services to the users and managing work flows etc. An agent may be selected based on a skill set or expertise of the agent in a skill as well as other factors such as geographic location of the agent. The term agent specialist or expert refers to a service center personnel or a computerized application in some cases that respond to customer requests. An agent may be locally situated at the service center or remotely situated over a network. Throughout this application the terms of agent specialist and expert are interchangeable terms dependent upon the circumstances. In most cases the term of agent collectively refers to a customer representative a support agent a support specialist a support expert or a combination thereof which may be a service center personnel and or a computerized application.

In one embodiment integrated service API A may be utilized by certain integrated service providers such as payment services dispatch services location services tracking and delivering services short messaging services SMS social networking and blogging services e.g. Twitter and customer relationship management CRM services e.g. Salesforce etc. Automated service API C may be utilized by AI Artificial Intelligence services BOT services automated services like roBOT that mimic the actions or activity of a human processes or activities making the user think they are talking to a live person frequently asked question FAQ services survey services eLearning services etc. Partner service API D may be utilized by certain partner entities of the support center such as social knowledge multi channel communication system and social CRM e.g. Lithium etc.

In one embodiment support service API B can be utilized by customer to reach the support center. Support service API B may be utilized for example via a one touch application launched from a mobile device to register a user register a product access knowledgebase e.g. KBs A B and obtain a support service from an agent AI BOT service etc. Initially when a customer downloads and installs a one touch application on its mobile device the customer can access support center via support service API B to create a user account which may be performed by registration module . Subsequently the customer may also log into the account via support service API B which may be authenticated by security module to register a product and or to retrieve a list of registered one or more products that have been registered with support center using certain techniques described above.

When there is a need to contact support center on a product the customer can activate the one touch application from its mobile device or press a one touch button from a Web site which will access and log into support center via support service API B where the customer and or the mobile device can be authenticated by security module . In addition case management module is configured to create a unique case ID that uniquely identifies the instant support case. The case ID may be created based on a combination of at least some of the product identifiers e.g. serial number barcode quick response QR code high capacity color barcode HCCB code receipt transaction ID client information e.g. retailer ID manufacturer product ID customer information e.g. personal information username password mobile device ID and other information e.g. time date .

In one embodiment touch plan engine is configured to create a touch plan which is identified and tracked by the case ID. The touch plan may be created according to one or more business rules or templates of the client. The touch plan represents a roadmap an outline a tracking record or case context for the instant support case. The touch plan may also include or reference to other aiding information such as product information product intelligence information customer history data client information and manufacturer information etc. which may be retrieved and compiled from various informational sources such as customer database client database product database knowledgebase A B client and or manufacturer backend systems etc. The touch plan is then forwarded to an agent that has been assigned to the instant case to allow the agent to have all the necessary information to enable the agent to provide the best customer experience. The agent may be assigned based on a variety of factors such as skill set expertise demographic location language prior customer relationship etc.

Data warehouse includes but is not limited to self support KB B internal support KB A client database DB product database and customer database . Internal support KB A may store any support information or communications between an agent and a customer. Self support KB B contains published information extracted from other informational sources such as internal support KB A and other systems e.g. client backend systems and manufacturer backend systems . Self support KB B allows a customer to browse in an attempt to find a solution for the customer s problem hopefully without having to contact a live support agent. Client database may store any client related information including a client profile for each client supported by support center . For example client database may store client s preference of communication channels to be utilized between a customer and an agent. Client database may also contain membership information of the customers.

Product information store may store any user manual or technical manual of products. Product detailed information may further include complementary products and services availability etc. Such information may be drawn from external systems such as client s backend systems and or manufacturer s backend systems. Customer DB may store any customer related information such as personal information e.g. name address phone numbers sex age security credential device ID of its mobile device etc. Customer DB may store any product that has been registered by a customer. Customer DB may further store information regarding any interaction between a customer and an agent of previous support sessions such as topics detailed discussions time of the discussions contact mechanisms used reasons of the support products or services involved in the discussions last agent or expert the customer interacted with etc.

Other databases may also be included and utilized. For example an agent or expert database may be maintained for the purpose of selecting an appropriate agent or expert in response to a support service from a customer. An agent and expert information database may include a profile for each agent or expert respectively that includes individual agent or expert identifier individual name address communication device information personal information e.g. age sex hobbies physical condition spoken languages ethnicity geographic area of expertise etc. individual skills and or areas of expertise. The agent expert database may further include day s and time s during which and or areas in which the agent expert may be contacted to service customer contacts and or a number of times over a selected period in which the agent expert may be contacted to service customer contacts e.g. similar to presence information .

In addition a service statistics database may also be maintained. A service statistics database may represent any database that stores data related to the operation and management of the support center system . Data such as the number of customers in queue at a certain date and time the duration of support contact in queue the rate of contact abandonment and the use of communication resources are stored in the statistics database. Note that the databases and data stores are shown and described for the purposes of illustration only. These databases and data stores can be implemented or configured in a variety of configurations which may be implemented locally or remotely over a network. Note that some databases or data stores may be implemented as a single database or store or multiple databases or stores.

In one embodiment registration module is responsible for registering a customer and or a product of a customer where the customer s personal information or preferences may be stored in a customer profile store as part of customer DB while the registered product information may be stored in customer DB . For example when a customer installs a one touch application on its mobile device the customer typically performs an initial login to set up a user account including a username and or password as well as customer s preferences e.g. communication channel preferences . In one embodiment registration module can also be used to assist in registering a user for other accounts such as a loyalty account across one or more loyalty programs a rewards program etc. This information may be stored in customer DB . In addition a unique device ID such as a MAC address or IMSI code may be captured and stored in customer DB . As a result when the customer subsequently launches the one touch application the customer can be automatically authenticated by security module based on this information without requiring the customer to provide the same information again.

According to one embodiment when a one touch application is activated or launched from a mobile device by a user the one touch application is configured to communicate with service API . Service API invokes security module to authenticate the user based on the information e.g. MAC or IMSI transmitted from the one touch application without requiring the user to specifically provide user information.

Once the user has been authenticated according to one embodiment service API transmits a personalized page having a list of one or more products from a customer asset store not shown that have been registered to the user. The list of the registered products may be displayed on a display of the mobile device where each product is associated with one or more communication channels that are available for the user to contact an agent of the support center. In one embodiment the availability of the communication channels is determined based on the user preference obtained from customer DB and the client vendor preference from client database at that point in time. Such user preference and client vendor preference may be configured in a user profile and client vendor profile respectively which may be maintained by the support center.

In response to a selection of one or more of the available communication channels received at the service API according to one embodiment a unique case identification ID is instantly created by case management module to uniquely represent a current instant of the support case. In addition a touch plan is created by touch plan engine and tracked by the unique case ID where the touch plan represents a roadmap or outline of the corresponding support case activities to be performed throughout the life of the touch plan. The touch plan is updated regarding all activity of the user and is forwarded to an agent assigned to the current case and a communication session is established between the assigned agent and the user via the selected communication channel. Throughout the session the touch plan is updated on all activity between the user agent and their respective applications.

An agent may be selected based on a variety of considerations such as a skill set or expertise of the agent as well as whether the agent has previous experience with the same customer. The touch plan may include one or more references linked with all the information related to the current instant support service such as related product information client information customer information and support history with the customer etc. such that the agent can provide the best possible services to the customer. The touch plan may further include suggestion or prediction of products or services that the agent can provide the customer an alternative solution. The suggestion or prediction may be generated by a persuasive engine not shown based on the product information and the customer s interactive history etc. The interaction between the user and the agent is logged by a logging module not shown and tracked based on the touch plan and the unique case ID which may be stored in an interaction history database for example for subsequent analysis by an analysis module.

Processing logic associated with the touch plan e.g. touch plan engine case management module or some other logic also monitors for positive and negative activities from the user the agent and respective applications. If a negative event is occurring the processing logic can perform adjustments according to the touch plan in knowledge provided agent scripting spoken to the user and many others in a manner such to turn the interaction positive e.g. adapt to changing conditions and circumstances . If the activity is positive the processing logic can provide an additional activity in and around product or service upsell cross sell upgrades and product sales etc. The positive and negative activity monitoring and adjustments are not limited to a user and agent they can support any form of interaction even long running interactions that exceed the user activity for any period of time.

In some situations according to one embodiment of the invention the touch plan may include information that identifies a relationship between two products or services that have been purchased via a client e.g. purchasing house . When a first product service changes the support center may determine that a second product service may need to change as well based on the touch plan. Accordingly a proactive service module not shown is configured to proactively notify the user regarding the possible change of the second product service and offers support services for the second product service without requiring the user to initiate a support call. A suggestion or offer can be made to the customer by a persuasive engine based on the information obtained from databases of data warehouse .

According to one embodiment prior to contacting an agent a list of support options may be presented to the user including a link to a publication forum that may contain one or more solutions to a problem associated with the user. Such solutions may be generated by a publication module not shown by extracting certain information from knowledgebase from a variety of informational sources such as for example internal support KB A client vendor KB e.g. client database and client backend system manufacturer KB e.g. product database and manufacturer backend system online community KB and or customer interactive history KB etc. As a result a user may find a solution from the publication forum and does not need to contact an agent of the support center which in turn may lower the cost for the client and or the customer. This is also referred to as a call avoidance feature. Certain information from data warehouse may be queried and reported by a reporting module.

Note that components or modules shown in are described for the purpose of illustration only more or fewer components or modules may also be implemented. For example a customer satisfaction system CSAT may also be implemented within support center . A CSAT system provides a feedback form to a customer through a variety of communication channels at the completion of a request or a query made by the customer. The feedback form filled out and provided by customers is stored reviewed and analyzed by the CSAT system. All feedback forms stored in the CSAT system are used as a tool to conduct a customer service related survey. The feedback forms are further used to enhance the service provided by support center .

Referring back to in one embodiment community service system is responsible for communicating with social communities via an API for example to post a message received from a user and to route the responses received from social communities back to the user. Service center further includes other components such as a post market service system which is responsible for handling post market activities associated with the registered products including selling a registered product on eCommerce sites and arranging a disposal facility to dispose or recycle the product etc.

According to one embodiment in addition to registering a product with the service center a user can also register for example through the application running within a mobile device one or more social communities and or one or more eCommerce sites by storing the necessary credentials e.g. usernames and passwords of the servers hosting the social communities and eCommerce sites in a database e.g. user database of the service center where the database is associated with a user the mobile device. Subsequently the user can transmit a sales request to sell or dispose a registered product by specifying one or more of the eCommerce sites.

In response to the sales request post market service system of service center is configured to retrieve the necessary credentials for the specified one or more eCommerce sites and arrange the specified eCommerce sites for selling the product together with the associated credentials to allow the eCommerce sites to authenticate the user for the purpose of selling the product such that the user does not have to provide the necessary credentials at the point in time of the sales request and the user does not have to provide detailed information of the product to be posted on the eCommerce sites describing the product to be sold. A single sales request received from the mobile device can specify multiple eCommerce sites. The service center can also arrange a disposal facility to dispose e.g. recycle a registered product without having a user to specifically contact the disposal facility.

Based on the machine readable code a registration module of support service system is configured to compile any information concerning the product without requiring the user to provide the same detailed information of the product. For example the registration module is configured to access a variety of informational sources such as client backend systems and manufacturer backend systems to obtain the detailed information based on the machine readable code without requiring a user to provide the same detailed information.

In addition according to one embodiment a user can also register eCommerce sites A B with the service center . For example a user can provide necessary credentials that are required to access eCommerce sites A B and the credentials are stored in user database as part of credentials . Examples of credentials include usernames and or passwords of the user to access eCommerce sites A B. Credentials can be subsequently used for accessing eCommerce sites A B without prompting the user for the same.

As described above support service system is configured to provide support services to a user regarding a registered product stored in asset store . For example in response to a request for support services of a registered product received from application of mobile device support service system is configured to establish a communications session between a user of mobile device and one of agents using one or more communications channels e.g. voice email chat video etc. that are preferred by the user and are available to the agent. The preference of the communications channels may be previously configured or registered with service center by the user and such preferences may also be stored in a preference store note shown of user database .

According to one embodiment post market system includes a sales engine and disposal engine . Sales engine is responsible for selling a registered product from asset store on at least one of eCommerce sites A B. In one embodiment a user can utilize application of mobile device to send a request to service center for selling a registered product. The request may simply identify a registered product with a listing price and one or more identifiers identifying one or more of eCommerce sites A B for selling the product without having to provide other detailed information such as detailed product information and necessary credentials for accessing the social community sites A B.

In response to the request sales engine is configured to retrieve the necessary credentials required to access eCommerce sites A B and the necessary product information e.g. description or specification etc. from the product database and or client database. Sales engine then transmits the product information listing price and the associated credentials to the specified eCommerce sites A B via API . API may include specific APIs for accessing different eCommerce sites using a variety of communications protocols.

The eCommerce sites A B can authenticate the user based on the received credentials without requiring service center to prompt the user for the same credentials at the time of submitting the sales. Upon having successfully authenticated the user the sales of the product may be posted on the eCommerce sites A B based on the received product information and the listing price. In one embodiment a single request from mobile device can be used to post a sales item on multiple eCommerce sites A B without having the user to submit the sales item multiple times. Sales engine is configured to coordinate the sales transactions among eCommerce sites A B for example to prevent the same item to be sold on multiple sites etc. For example when an item has been sold on a first site the listing of the same item will be withdrawn from a second site.

In one embodiment service center can also perform or invoke another entity to perform market survey concerning current market conditions of a product for example based on operating conditions of the product at the point in time which may be provided by a user. Based on the survey service center can provide an estimated market value of a registered product and transmit the estimated value to mobile device and displayed by application . The estimated market value of the product can help the user to set a selling price.

According to another embodiment service center can also promote or suggest other products e.g. accessories related to the registered products to the user and provide a purchasing platform to allow a user to purchase the related products. The purchasing functionality may be implemented as part of sales engine or a separate component. Once a product is purchased via service center the purchased product is automatically registered within service center without the user to specifically register the product for example based on the product information and or client information obtained from manufacturer and or client backend systems.

Note that a manufacturer or retailer often wishes to promote or reward a customer who purchased its product or subscribed its loyalty program. Alternatively a manufacturer or retailer may also notify a user concerning a recall of user s products. Such a promotion reward or notice may be received by service center from a variety of sources such as manufacturers and retailers. Service center can associate such a promotion or reward with a registered product and transmit such a promotion or reward to mobile device as a suggestion to the user. As a result service center enables the manufacturers or retailers to reach their customers similar to targeted advertisement. Meanwhile a user does not have to browse around in order to find out any product upgrades or product recall associated its registered products. The user can simply rely on service center for such services.

According to another embodiment disposal engine is configured to arrange disposal facilities to dispose a registered product if the user no longer wishes to maintain the product. In this situation a user does not have to individually find out who can dispose or recycle a particular type of products. Instead the user can initiate a request from mobile device requesting disposal of a registered product. In response to the request disposal engine is configured to determine a particular one of disposal facilities that is capable of disposing or recycling the requested product and to transmit the information of the selected one of disposal facilities to allow the user to contact the selected disposal facility or alternatively disposal engine can establish a communications sessions between the user and a customer representative from the selected disposal facility for example using a communications channel preferred by the user and available to the customer representative. Thus service center is able to provide a single platform capable of providing product registration support buying and selling and disposal i.e. a full life cycle support of a product.

Referring back to according to one embodiment a user can also post a message to one or more of the registered social communities from the application running within the mobile device without having to individually access the social communities. In one embodiment a user can transmit a request from mobile device to service center where the request includes a message to be posted and one or more community identifiers identifying one or more registered social communities. In response community service system of service center is configured to retrieve the associated credentials from the database and to post the message to the specified social communities together with the associated credentials allow the social communities to authenticate the user without having to prompt the user for the same credentials.

In one embodiment a user can configure a set of one or more delivery rules specifying whether a particular type of messages or advertisements should be routed to the user. Delivery rules may also specify whether a message or a particular type of messages associated with a particular registered product should be received by the user. Delivery rules can also specify whether a message received from a particular source should be forwarded to the user. In one embodiment certain types of messages are not available to be filtered out. For example any recall message of any registered product must be routed to users regardless of the configuration of delivery rules . A message may be routed to a user using one or more communications channels configured by the user as communications preference which may also be stored in user database .

A message may include an advertisement of products and or services for a consumer or user delivered via a traditional advertisement service such as Google etc. A message may include an offer to a customer provided directly from a manufacturer loyalty provider etc. where an offer may be all offers for a product line or only for products registered or a wish list via the service center. A message may include a social feed received from a variety of social communities. A social feed may be related to user community feedback comments suggestions or experience of a particular product or service discussed by their community members or friends.

In one embodiment in response to a message received one of sources message processing module is configured to determine whether the message should be delivered to a user associated with mobile device based on a set of delivery rules associated with the user. If delivery rules permit the message is routed to mobile device or one of other devices associated with the user dependent upon the settings of the communications channel preference not shown . As described above message may be related to a registered product specified in asset store of the user. Alternatively the message may be related to other products or services that are likely interesting to the user for example based on user s interactive history habits and or registered products or services which may be captured and determined over a period of time by monitoring module and or analysis module and stored as part of user interactions .

According to one embodiment a user of mobile device can set its preference via application for any messages advertisements offers or feeds that would be presented to mobile device . Application provides user friendly GUIs to allow the user to specify the message delivery preferences including manufacturer offers e.g. product or service offers from a variety of manufacturers such as Dell Samsung etc. loyalty offers e.g. products or services offers from a variety of loyalty or brand providers such as Best Buy social feeds e.g. feeds based on products from social communities such as Facebook or Twitter and other advertisement providers. For each of the message sources in one embodiment a user can turn off message delivery for the particular source turn on the message delivery only for the products registered by the user e.g. registered products or wish list or turn on the message delivery for all products provided by the particular source regardless whether such products have been registered.

Referring back to in one embodiment service center further includes a messaging or advertisement system responsible for handling any messages received from a variety of partners or parties such as client sites client backend systems manufacturer backend systems and eCommerce sites . Messages may be related to the registered products of the user such as promotions rewards and recall messages. Messages may include advertisements from a variety of advertisement providers.

In one embodiment a user can configure a set of one or more rules to specify whether certain types of messages or advertisements received from vendors or parties e.g. retailers manufacturers social communities or other advertisement providers which may or may not be related to a registered product should be routed to the user. These rules serve as part of message delivery or filtering rules. The service center engages with the related parties to allow the related parties to get in touch with the user by sending certain messages such as product promotions rewards and or recalls etc. to the user. The service center may send a message to a user via one or more communications channels preferred by the user which may also be configured as a set of rules and stored in a database associated with the user.

According to another embodiment an advertisement received from a vendor is delivered by the service center to a mobile device of a user based on a set of delivery rules associated with the user. The advertisement is displayed on a display of the mobile device by an application running therein. In addition the service center and or the application are configured to track interactions of the user with respect to the displayed advertisement to determine user behaviors patterns or trends in view of the displayed advertisement. An analysis is performed on the user interaction and the result of the analysis may be utilized to configure further advertisement delivery by the service center and or the vendors.

According to another embodiment service center is configured to identify users that have at least one common product registered with the service center and are also members of a social community. The service center is configured to send a message to those users to invite them to connect e.g. becoming friends or following a friend with each other via the social community. The social community is hosted by a third party and communicatively coupled to the service center over a network. The service center may also deliver messages or items posted by one of those users to another one of those users on behalf of the social community without requiring such users to individually or directly accessing the social community. The service center can also deliver messages or items to a particular user posted by other users of the social community where the messages or items are related to a registered product of that particular user.

According to a further embodiment an application running on a mobile device provides a user friendly graphical user interface GUI to allow a user to configure a set of one or more delivery rules concerning whether certain types of messages or advertisements should be received at the mobile device from a service center. The service center is configured to deliver messages or advertisements on behalf of a message or advertisement provider which can be a client to the service center a retailer a manufacturer a social community or other content providers. A user can utilize the GUI to configure for each of the providers whether a message associated with a particular registered product of the user or all products in general related to the provider should be received by the mobile device. The settings of the delivery rules are then transmitted from the mobile device to the service center to allow the service center to deliver subsequent messages or advertisements on behalf of the message or advertisement providers accordingly.

According to one embodiment when a user wishes to post a message to one or more of social communities A B the user can create a message on a GUI page of application and specify the social community or communities. The request for posting a message is then transmitted from mobile device to service center and received by social posting engine . In one embodiment the request includes information identifying a message to be posted one or more social communities in which the message is to be posted and a registered product associated with the posting. Based on the request social posting engine is configured to retrieve the necessary credentials from credential store for accessing the social communities. The credentials for accessing social communities A B may be previously registered with service center and stored in credential store . Examples of the credentials may include usernames and passwords.

Based on the registered product social posting engine can also identify one or more discussion threads or forums of social communities A B that are associated with the product. Thereafter social posting engine transmits via APIs the message and the necessary credentials to one or more of social communities A B for the purpose of posting the message. If a connection to a social community is unavailable at the point in time social posting engine may store the post in a queue not shown until the connection becomes available. As a result a user does not have to provide the necessary credentials to service center at the time of posting. The user may not have to identify which of the discussion forums or discussion threads in which the message should be posted. All the user needs is to specify which of the social communities and the product associated with the posting.

Similarly when a response is received from social communities A B in response to the posted message a social posting engine not shown is configured to route the response back to mobile device . Alternatively the response may be routed to the user according to one or more communications channels preferred by the user which may be configured previously and stored in user database e.g. user profile . Thus a single message can be posted onto multiple accounts of the same social community. A single message can also be posted onto multiple accounts across multiple social communities. A social community can be hosted or maintained by a third party social networking provider e.g. Facebook Twitter a retailer e.g. Amazon Bestbuy or a manufacturer e.g. Samsung .

According to one embodiment community service system further includes social monitoring engine configured to monitor message postings to social communities A B via social posting engine and the responses received from social communities A B. In one embodiment social monitoring engine is configured to collect data concerning all the social posting activities. The data collection may include but is not limited to user IDs and date and time of post communities the pose is made to user accounts post is being made to user account the post is being made from device the post is being made from e.g. mobile tablet Web etc. Based on the monitoring social posting statistics can be generated. In one embodiment social posting statistics includes but is not limited to a number of posts by time and day number of posts by day of week number of users creating posts number of products with posts number of brands or loyalty with posts and products least posted about etc.

In one embodiment an enhanced analysis may be performed on the collected data and statistics to identify trends activities based on events including but not limited to most social channels used to post the types of accounts e.g. user accounts manufacturers loyalty accounts or both of the posts products associated with the posts services associated with the posts the brands associated with the posts number of the posts by products and services and times of day and days of week of the posts etc.

Social monitoring engine is configured to monitor a social environment gathering data about topics posted in communities A B. In one embodiment social monitoring engine is configured to identify posts that have both positive and or negative sentiments regarding a product or brand. Social monitoring engine may also identify activities based on either the positive or negative sentiment such as whether the traffic is heavy on the topic whether a positive sentiment is trending negative and whether a negative sentiment is trending positive. Social monitoring engine may also determine other social community sites that are discussing the same or similar topics or trends. Social monitoring engine may also determine the most active users participating in the community and or whether the community is working to find a solution or the community needs an assistance to move forward. The sentiment data or social statistics can be utilized by agent expert specialist to participate in the discussion for example by interjecting comments into a negative discussion and attempting to turn it positive or identifying a solution that the community has found to be positive and posts to other communities that may not have knowledge of the resolution. The solution or comments posted in a discussion forum may also be converted into knowledgebase for future references.

In one embodiment based on the monitoring a user having participated in a discussion and posted positive comments about a product may be rewarded by the service center a retailer and or a manufacturer associated with the product. A user having posted a negative comment about a product may be contacted by an agent expert or specialist to resolve the issues in an attempt to turn the negative experience into a positive one.

Referring back to according to one embodiment service center further includes a self support system to allow a user to access self support knowledgebase KB such as KB to find a solution to its problem without having to invoke a live support with a support agent. Self support system may be implemented as a standalone Web server communicatively coupled to service center over a network. In one embodiment self support system further includes a learning system to provide a series of courses to allow a user to gain training without having to have a live course on behalf of a client.

In one embodiment in response to a request for accessing an online course course rendering module of learning system identifies renders and transmits a course segment to a remote device of a user. The request may include a machine readable code e.g. QR code that is obtained via mobile device of the user by scanning machine readable code disposed on a product using a scanner or camera of mobile device . Machine readable code can be a variety of codes such as a QR code a serial number a UPC code a barcode an image etc. The course or courses are identified from course database based on machine readable code without having the user to specifically provide detailed information identifying the courses.

For example the user can use its mobile device to scan a product identification code on the exterior surface of the product and access the courses provided by learning system . Note that the product in question does not have to be a registered product it could just be a product that may be potentially purchased by the user as long as the user is a registered member of service center and or a product provider of the product in question is a client of service center .

Based on machine readable code received from mobile device according to one embodiment functional capabilities e.g. display resolution network bandwidth processing power current geographic location of the device etc. of mobile device may be automatically determined by service center for example without user intervention. Some of the device information may be collected when mobile device was registered with service center by the user. The courses may be rendered e.g. in a form of a media stream by course rendering module in view of the capabilities of the mobile device such that the courses can be properly presented by mobile device . The courses may also be rendered based on user s previous learning actions. For example based on the machine readable code course rendering module is configured to determine the previous endpoint of a course segment and to render a course segment having a starting point that will pick up the previous endpoint such that the user does not have to repeat the previously viewed content. The user learning history may be monitored and tracked by tracking module .

While the user navigates the course segment according to one embodiment user interaction with the course is tracked and captured by tracking module of service center . The user interaction may be monitored and tracked by application running at mobile device and periodically transmitted from mobile device to learning system of service center over a network. In one embodiment analysis module is configured to perform an analysis on the tracking data and to generate an analysis report. The analysis report may be provided to a product provider to allow the product provider to determine customer satisfaction or other product and marketing purposes e.g. targeted advertisements . In this situation a product provider is a client of service center and the analysis report may be transmitted to the client such as client backend systems . Alternatively analysis module may invoke a customer satisfaction CSAT system which may be maintained within service center or by a remote third party vendor to compute a customer satisfaction metrics and provide the customer satisfaction metrics to the client.

In one embodiment based on the analysis a new or related product is identified and recommended to the user. If the user decides to acquire the recommended product service center may allow the user to access an eCommerce site to acquire the recommended product. Service center is configured to automatically register the product and store the registered product information in product asset store associated with the user.

In one embodiment based on the analysis course rendering module is configured to customize or generate further courses for the user or for other users who may have similar concerns. The analysis report can also be utilized to generate a new article or modify an existing article of a self support knowledgebase e.g. a Web site hosting solutions to common issues such as frequently asked questions or FAQ . The analysis report may also be utilized to update or spin off a discussion thread for further discussion in an online community or social community via community service system .

According to one embodiment a course is presented in a manner such that a user can get in touch with an agent for live support a specialist associated with a self support knowledgebase and or a friend of a social community to further engage discussions of topics associated with the course and or the associated product. In one embodiment if the user is unsatisfied with a description of a particular course the user can instantly activate an embedded control e.g. a button or a link at a particular place in time to request a further assistance or access additional information related to the course. For example during or at the end of a learning segment survey system may transmit a survey inquiry to mobile device to prompt the user whether the user is satisfied with the particular learning segment and collect the user response for further analysis. Meanwhile one or more buttons or links are presented to the user to allow the user to initiate a further action.

For example while navigating a course according to one embodiment a user can activate a control or button embedded or associated with the course to request a live support with an agent or specialist. Based on the request received at the service center and the tracking data collected during the course support service system is configured to identify and select an agent who is familiar with the description of the course and or the product in question to get in touch with the user via a communications channel e.g. voice chat email that is preferred by the user e.g. based on user preference previously configured and stored as part of a user profile and is available e.g. based on a configuration of a client that is associated with the course to the agent. In addition support service system is configured to compile all the necessary information concerning the user e.g. user preference user interactive history the product in question the learning course currently presented to the user as well as the tracking data of the learning course collected by tracking module and the analysis performed by analysis module generating a support session context. Support service system then transmits the support session context to the selected agent to be available at the desktop of the agent such that the agent has all the necessary information during a live support session.

Alternatively the user can activate a control or button from the course to request accessing a self support knowledgebase e.g. Web site for a particular article that is related to the content of the course. In response to the request self support system is configured to identify one or more articles that are related to content of the learning course segment at the point in time from a self support knowledgebase hosted by a knowledgebase server such as a Web server. The one or more articles may be identified based on the tracking data of the learning course collected by tracking module and the analysis performed by analysis module . Self support system is configured to transmit one or more links referencing the articles to mobile device such that the user can access the articles via the links from mobile device . Self support system and learning system may be implemented as a single system. In addition according to one embodiment from the self support articles the user can also initiate a live support session with an agent of service center via a link or button presented along with the articles. Alternatively from the self support articles the user can access a related discussion forum hosted by an online community via community service system . Furthermore since the user accesses the community via self support system the user interaction with the articles can be pinpointed and tracked by the self support system and fed back to service center for further analysis. For example based on the user interaction with the learning course and self support articles self support system is configured to generate further self support articles to be posted in the self support knowledgebase.

Furthermore a user can also activate a control or button from the course to request access or participation in a discussion forum of an online community that is related to content of the course. In response to the request community service system is configured to identify a discussion thread that is hosted by an online community and related to the content of the course at the point in time. Community service system transmits information regarding the discussion thread to mobile device . According to one embodiment community service system may automatically log into the online community on behalf of the user using the corresponding credentials e.g. username and password that have been previously provided to service center and stored as part of database . As a result the user does not have to provide the same at the point in time.

Alternatively according to another embodiment the user can also share the course segment with its friends in an online community. For example the user can activate a share button on a graphical user interface presenting the course to request sharing the course segment. In response to the request community service system is configured to log in and access the online community and to request the sharing of the course by transmitting a link of the course to the online community on behalf of the user. In this way the user does not have to individually access the online community in which the user has to launch another browser session and provide the necessary credentials in order to log into the online community which sometimes is inconvenient. Furthermore since the user accesses the community via community service system the user interaction with the community can be pinpointed and tracked by the community and provided back to service center for further analysis as described above.

Referring back to according to one embodiment service center further includes guided support identification system configured to analyze user interaction or behaviors to predict or determine a support subject matter that a user may potentially need. Such a support subject matter may be determined based on user interaction while a user is navigating a presentation provided by a remote device such as a Web site or an application running at computing device where the presentation e.g. application includes information describing a possible solution to a problem of a product or service which may be related to or similar to a product or service the user is interested in.

The user interaction may be captured e.g. by a capturing logic integrated within or accessible by the presentation at the remote device and transmitted to guided support identification system over a network while the user is navigating the presentation at remote device . Based on the predicted subject matter also referred to as a support type a skill set also referred to as a skill route that is required to provide support services of the subject matter is identified. When the user subsequently requests a live support for example within the same user session an agent having the identified skill set is selected to provide support services to the user. The user interaction may be periodically captured and transmitted to the service center during navigation of the presentation. In response guided support identification system is configured to automatically update and maintain the subject matter determined based on the latest user interaction prior to the user s request for a live support.

As a result the guided support identification system is able to get users in need of assistance to a specific skill or expert specialist that is able to support their request or need even before the user initiates a live support. Once the support subject matter and the required skill set have been identified a route context e.g. touch plan can be generated by support service system where the routing context includes all the necessary information an agent needs in order to provide the best support services to the user. Such an agent is referred to herein as a recommended agent recommended by the service center. A communications session is then established by multi channel communications and routing system and the routing context is routed to the selected agent.

Guided support rules or algorithms may be designed and configured specifically tailored to the representation currently navigated by the user at remote device . For example guided support rules or algorithms may specify the overall support subject matter for the topic of the presentation. Guided support rules or algorithms may also include specific support subject matters for different parts links or paths within the presentation. When a user interacts with a different section of the presentation it may yield a different support subject matter. In one embodiment the captured user interaction may further include an amount of time the user has spent on a specific section of the presentation. Such an amount of time may be utilized as a weight factor in deciding which of the support subject matters will prevail.

Once the support subject matter has been determined analysis module is configured to determine one or more skill set that are required to provide the associated support services based on support subject matter and skill set mapping database or table . The skill set may be utilized to identify one or more agents to be recommended to the user of remote device as recommended agents. Subject matter and skill set mapping table includes information identifying one or more skill sets that are required to provide support services for a particular support subject matter. Subject matter and skill set mapping table may optionally include information identifying one or more agents or specialists that qualify for each of the skill sets.

In addition according to one embodiment user agent preferences are maintained in user database associated with a user. That is each user has its own agent preferences respectively for example dependent upon previous experience of previous support sessions. Agent preferences include a variety of information concerning the agents known to a particular user such as agent identifiers ratings e.g. ratings rated by all users in general and or a specific rating rated by the particular user and or other information e.g. history products subject matters etc. .

When the user initiates a live support from remote device for example by activating a support button or control from the presentation after navigating the presentation a live support request is received by support service system . This could be a situation in which after the user has navigated a certain section of the presentation the user does not quite understand or is not satisfied with the description. The user may want to have a live session with a specialist to further discuss further details. In one embodiment the live support button was not available in the presentation initially. Based on the analysis of the user interaction analysis module may determine that the user may wish to have a live support session at a certain point in time. As a result guided support identification system may cause remote device to present a live support control to the user which may be in a form of a displayed button a voice activated control or a combination of both to allow the user to initiate a live support session.

In response to the live support request in one embodiment case management module touch plan engine is configured to receive a list of one or more recommended agents provided by guided support identification system and or one or more preferred agents of the user retrieved from user agent preferences . A list of the recommended agents and preferred agents is transmitted to remote device . The list of the recommended agents and preferred agents is presented via a graphical user interface GUI displayed on a display of device to allow the user to select one of the recommended agents and preferred agents for the live support session. Note that the list of the recommended agents and preferred agents may also be transmitted by case management module touch plan engine . Case management module touch plan engine and or guided support identification system may also cause remote device to provide a list of communications options such as voice chat email video etc. to allow the user to select one or more of the choices to establish a live session with an agent or specialist. The list of communications options may be previously configured based on user preference and client preference.

In response to a user selection of an agent e.g. system randomly assigned agent user selected preferred or recommended agent and or a communications option according to one embodiment case management module or touch plan engine is configured to compile and generate routing context e.g. touch plan based on information from data warehouse including user information client information product information user interaction history etc. Routing context is then provided to multi channel communications and routing system to be routed to agent where routing context is presented to agent as part of a screen pop at a desktop of the agent such that when agent communicates with the user of remote device agent has all the necessary information concerning the user and the product in question.

Furthermore according to one embodiment at a conclusion of the live support session survey module is configured to transmit a survey to remote device to allow the user to provide a feedback such as a rating concerning quality of the selected agent. The feedback is utilized to update the ratings of the selected agent in general as well as a rating of the agent as a preferred agent associated with the user. Such a rating may affect a subsequent selection of recommended agent candidates and preferred agent candidates.

According to one embodiment while the user is navigating the presentation at remote device the user interaction with the presentation is periodically transmitted from remote device and received by analysis module . Based on the user interaction the support subject matter may be periodically determined and skill set may be determined or updated which may override a previous one. The received user interaction may also be stored in a database of the service center as part of user interaction history. Thus skill set may be same or different at any moment dependent upon the user interaction at the point in time. Further skill set may or may not be utilized dependent upon whether the user ends up requesting a live support during the current user session. Thus the determined skill set may only be utilized during a current user session e.g. same browser session or same instant of an application . When the current user session ends the determined skill set may be discarded. When a user initiates a new session the above operations may be repeatedly performed and a new set of skills may be determined dependent upon the user interaction at the point in time.

In addition according to one embodiment if the user actively selects an agent either a preferred agent or a recommended agent the task will be put into a priority queue such as queues which is specifically allocated for the selected agent. In one embodiment the selected agent typically has to finish the support requests in the corresponding queue e.g. queues before taking on the tasks pending in general queue . Alternatively a selected agent may take on a task in general queue after serving every predetermined number of tasks in its priority queue. Such priority scheme may be configurable based on a set of rules which may be configured based on a variety of data such as subject matters or support types clients products skill sets etc.

Referring back to according to one embodiment route sequence manager is configured to manage route sequence maps for a variety of users and or a variety of clients. Route sequence manager may be implemented as part of self support system . Route sequence manager is to allow a user or an administrator to configure a route sequence map to help guiding a user to navigate resources available from a service center such as obtaining support services from a support service agent concerning a product or service provided by a client of the service center. A route sequence map is a collection of route sequences pulled together allowing a variety of operations to be performed via a service center and initiated from a single application such as application of client device . A route sequence map can logically represent a global route context of a user that can lead to a variety of actions performed and or one or more further route sequences of one or more related subject matters. Once a route sequence map has been configured via route sequence manager and stored in one of the databases a user can initiate from application from device to navigate the preconfigured resources associated with the route sequence map available from service center without having to provide detailed information regarding how to access those resources at runtime.

According to one embodiment route sequence manager of service center provides a configuration interface such as an application programming interface API or a Web based interface e.g. Web portal via a variety of communication protocols which may be implemented as part of API to allow an end user or an administrator of a corporate client to configure and or create a route sequence map for the end user or users associated with the corporate client e.g. employees of a corporation and or buyers of products associated with a retailer or manufacturer . A route sequence map can be utilized as a road or navigation map allowing a user navigating elements or nodes of the route sequence map to reach certain resources available from service center without requiring the user to specifically provide detailed information at runtime.

In one embodiment a route sequence map includes various context elements or nodes arranged in a hierarchical structure. Each context element includes a property having one or more property values or attributes that can be used to specify one or more actions and or one or more links to one or more other context elements e.g. child context elements . A user or administrator can configure via a configuration interface of the service center to populate the property values of each context element. A context element can be one of an action context element and a navigation context element. An action context element can be configured such that when activated will cause the service center to perform an action using a method specified by one or more property values of the action context element. For example an action context element can be configured to cause the service center to contact a particular person e.g. friend or family member of a user or a service support agent of the service center using a particular communication method e.g. voice email text video chat . As a result when a user activates this action context element from an application such as a mobile phone application service center can look up the property values of the corresponding action context element and to establish a communication session with a remote user associated with the action context element using a communication method specified by the action context element without having the local user to provide the detailed information regarding how to reach the remote user at runtime.

A navigation context element can be configured based on a variety of factors set forth above that when activated one or more related context elements can be identified that are related to the activated context element. During the configuration phase a user can specify what other context elements e.g. child context elements are related to the current context element. The related context elements can include an action context element and or another navigation context element that leads to one or more further context elements e.g. grandchild context elements . For example a context element Finance can be configured to be associated with one or more child context elements such as Chase Bank of America and Wells Fargo etc. In this way a user can group or associate all of the financial institutes under the Finance context element and navigate each of the associated child context elements from there without having to search and provide details for each of those entities. Alternatively the Finance context element can be associated with a child action context element such as a Call My Financial Advisor context element that when activated will make a voice call to the specified finance advisor which may be specified in one or more property values of the Call My Financial Advisor context element. As a result the user does not have to provide detailed information on how to call its financial advisor at run time. The configured route sequence map can then be stored in a database of the service center such as a user database and or client database. Such a route sequence map can be retrieved subsequently by route sequence manager of service center in response to a request or command received from application running at remote device over a network.

According to one embodiment application also referred to as a navigation application can be provided and installed at a device of a user such as a mobile phone laptop desktop or a Web based application. When application is launched from client device application is to access service center over a network e.g. Internet for authenticating a user of the client device for example based on username and password of a user associated with client device and or a unique device identifier ID of client device . Once the user has been successfully authenticated by service center route sequence manager of service center retrieves a route sequence map from a user database and or client database that has been previously configured and stored and transmits information representing the route sequence map to the client device to be presented at a display of client device by application .

According to one embodiment a route sequence map is displayed in multiple rows of graphical representations each graphical representation corresponding to a context element of the route sequence map. An inner or lower row of the route sequence map represents a parent row to a child row displayed as an outer or upper row of the route sequence map. When a graphical representation of an inner or lower row is selected e.g. highlighted an ID of the selected graphical representation is transmitted by application of client device to service center over a network which may be a local area network LAN a wide area network e.g. Internet or a combination thereof. Based on the ID service center is to identify a selected context element of the route sequence map. If the selected context element is an action context element service center is to perform an action that is specified in a property value of the selected context element using a method specified in a property value of the selected context element. If the selected context element is a navigation context element route sequence manager of service center is to identify one or more child context elements associated with the selected context element and transmit the information of the child context elements to the client device. The client device is to display one or more graphical representations representing the one or more child context elements in an outer or upper row while the selected graphical representation remains highlighted in the inner or lower row. As a result the user can easily navigate context elements of the route sequence map via the application without the hassles of managing the individual elements of the route sequence and their detailed settings.

In one embodiment service center further includes a multi channel communication and routing system MCRS to provide one or more communication channels to any user or client to concurrently access service center . Examples of communication channels include email chat texting e.g. SMS or MMS voice e.g. automated IVR real time or VoIP video Web e.g. Web conferencing and or online community forum e.g. Facebook or Twitter or a combination thereof. Note that MCRS may be fully or partially integrated with service center or alternatively it may be maintained or provided by a third party or partner e.g. communicatively coupled via service API over a network . Service center further includes an automatic caller distribution ACD system not shown to receive route and manage voice calls exchanged via the multi channel communication system. A customer can obtain support services from service center via a variety of communication mechanisms. A customer can initiate a support request to contact a live agent such as agents in a live manner. Alternatively a customer may browse certain knowledgebase such as KB via a Web interface in an attempt to find a solution to a problem of a product he she purchased from a manufacturer via a client of service center .

According to one embodiment application is installed on mobile device of a customer or user where application can serve as a central service point or entry point to service center that provides support services to a variety of products or services provided by a variety of vendors. The vendors can be for example manufacturers distributors retailers service brokers purchasing houses etc. of the products. Vendors may be the clients of service center or entities having a business relationship with service center . A user also referred to herein as a customer can activate application from the user s mobile device to reach agents the service center or KB data center via a variety of communication channels or media such as for example email chat voice including automated interactive voice recognition or IVR voice over Internet protocol or VoIP video Web and or online community based forum etc. Application can be a thin thick client application or a Web based application.

Note that a service center described throughout this application is not limited to a traditional service center or support center nor is it implemented in a single physical location. A service center described herein represents a collection of service logic or providers communicatively coupled to each other over a network in a distributed or a cloud based fashion. The term of a service center herein represents any kind of service providers that provide a variety of services to customers or users. As described throughout this application a service center can be a set of enabling cloud based service APIs which enable a variety of consumer product services and support offerings via an intelligent set of technologies providing automated and or live communications. In one embodiment services provided by a service center can include but not limited to 1 user product and loyalty registration and support services 2 product wish list reviews and comparisons 3 purchasing and accessorizing services 4 social community support and integration services 5 intelligent knowledge support services and 6 integrated sales and product disposition services etc.

Also note that an agent an expert or a customer representative described throughout this application is not limited to a real person. The term of an agent an expert or a customer representative can also refer to any processing logic or functional block that is configured or programmed to provide automated services to a customer for example via the services APIs of the service center without a need of a real person involved. Such processing logic and or functional blocks can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof.

Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as those set forth in the claims below refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. Such a computer program is stored in a non transitory computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices .

The processes or methods depicted in the preceding figures may be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software e.g. embodied on a non transitory computer readable medium or a combination of both. Although the processes or methods are described above in terms of some sequential operations it should be appreciated that some of the operations described may be performed in a different order. Moreover some operations may be performed in parallel rather than sequentially.

Embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

