---

title: System and method for access number distribution in a contact center
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for processing interaction requests from a customer. A computer system receives over a data channel from an end user device accessible to the customer, a request for an interaction. The request includes data from an application running on the mobile device. An access number is identified from a pool of access numbers based on the data, and the identified access number is reserved. The identified access number is transmitted to the end user device over the data channel. In response to the transmitting of the identified access number, a call is received from a telephony device to the access number. A voice media session is established with the telephony device in response to the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531878&OS=09531878&RS=09531878
owner: GENESYS TELECOMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09531878
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150717
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 776 702 filed on Feb. 25 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 088 656 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 736 534 filed on Dec. 12 2012 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 739 680 filed on Dec. 19 2012 the contents all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Smart phones and electronic tablets provide a convenient way to interact with businesses especially if those businesses provide an application that allows customers to conduct transactions with the businesses via the applications. Thus what is desired is a system and method for providing customer service via the applications in a safe and convenient manner.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for processing interaction requests from a customer. A computer system receives over a data channel from an end user device accessible to the customer a request for an interaction. The request includes data from an application running on the mobile device. An access number is identified from a pool of access numbers based on the data and the identified access number is reserved. The identified access number is transmitted to the end user device over the data channel. In response to the transmitting of the identified access number a call is received from a telephony device to the access number. A voice media session is established with the telephony device in response to the call.

According to one embodiment the access number is identified based on a location of the mobile device included in the data.

According to one embodiment the reserving of the access number is for preventing the access number from being transmitted to another end user device.

According to one embodiment the access number is reserved for a particular period of time wherein after expiration of the time the access number is returned to the pool.

According to one embodiment the received data is temporarily stored in response to the request for the interaction. The stored data is identified based on the access number called by the telephony device. The access number is returned to the pool in response to the identifying.

According to one embodiment the access number is reserved for a particular period of time. The access number is not returned to the pool if the application is not identified and the period of time has not expired.

According to one embodiment the access number is a telephone number or an identifier of an internet telephony device.

The matching of voice calls to data provided by customer applications as well as the reservation of access numbers that are provided to customer applications for inbound calls provides various benefits which will be apparent to a person of skill in the art such as for example improved customer experience improved contact center productivity cost savings due to a reduced call handle time and or the like.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be more fully understood when considered with respect to the following detailed description appended claims and accompanying drawings. Of course the actual scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for engaging with customers or potential customers via their end user devices in order to provide them with customer service. According to one embodiment an enterprise provides a customer application for downloading into the customer s end user device. The application may be invoked for accessing different services provided by the enterprise as well as for contacting the enterprise s customer contact center. For example if the enterprise is a bank the application may be a banking application that the user may access to check bank account information credit card information or conduct other financial transactions. In another example the application may be a customer care application provided by an IT help desk. Such customer care application may be invoked to view details of service requests SRs submitted by a customer to the IT help desk. The service requests may be for example service requests for technical support. Regardless of the type of application the actual logic of the application might be incorporated into the application or the application may invoke the end user device s web browser to access the logic over the web.

Although various embodiments of the present invention are described in terms of a customer application installed in a mobile device a person of skill in the art should recognize that the embodiments are not limited to mobile devices or applications. Instead embodiments of the present invention extend to any consumer electronics device conventional in the art such as for example televisions set top boxes gaming consoles computers and the like. Similarly the customer applications may extend to include any application that may be downloaded and or executed e.g. without download by the consumer electronics device.

According to one embodiment the customer applications allow customers to initiate contact with a contact center without leaving the application. For example instead of leaving the application and invoking the mobile device s keypad to manually dial the telephone number of the customer contact center the application may according to one embodiment provide a contact button or icon collectively referred to as a contact button for initiating contact with the contact center. According to one embodiment contacting a contact center via the customer application allows a customer who has been authenticated via the application to avoid re authentication when a voice connection is made with the contact center.

According to one embodiment the customer application provides more than one communication medium for interacting with the contact center. For example the application may provide an option to contact the contact center via email text based chat or the like. The availability of a particular mode of communication may depend for example on the profile of the customer using the customer application.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes resources e.g. personnel computers and telecommunication equipment to enable delivery of services via telephone or other communication mechanisms such as for example text chat email or the like. Such services may vary depending on the type of contact center and may range from customer service to help desk emergency response telemarketing order taking and the like. According to one embodiment the contact center is an IT help desk configured to receive service requests route service requests to appropriate parties such as for example engineers IT personnel or the like also collectively referred to as agents or knowledge workers and provide updates to the customers submitting the service requests.

Customers potential customers or other end users collectively referred to as customers desiring to receive services from the contact center may initiate inbound calls to the contact center via their end user devices. The end user devices collectively referenced as include for example mobile communication devices such as for example cellular phones including smartphones laptops electronic tablets and the like. The end user devices may also include standard land line telephones desktops or other consumer electronic devices e.g. televisions set top boxes gaming consoles and the like configured for voice data and or multimedia communication as is conventional in the art. Users operating the end user devices may initiate manage and respond to telephone calls emails chats text messaging web browsing sessions and other multi media transactions via one or more customer applications downloaded and or executed by the end user devices.

Inbound and outbound calls from and to the end users devices may traverse a telephone cellular and or data communication network depending on the type of device that is being used. For example the communications network may include a private or public switched telephone network PSTN mobile network and a private and or public wide area network. In the embodiment of the Internet is depicted as an example of the public wide area network.

The mobile network may include for example a code division multiple access CDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or any 3G or 4G wireless carrier network conventional in the art. The mobile network may also be a WiFi or other similar wireless network. In addition the mobile network may support dedicated solutions for providing wireless access to the Internet such as for example Gogo Tetra and the like.

The Internet network may include various servers including for example social networking servers voice over IP VoIP servers web servers application servers or other computing resources e.g. database servers for accessing data stored in databases which users may leverage for interacting with the contact center. The servers may also provide web pages for the enterprise supported by the contact center. End users may browse the web pages and get information about the enterprise s products and services. The web pages in conjunction with browser capabilities such as HTMLS and service specific servlets may also provide different mechanisms for contacting the contact center e.g. web chat voice call email web real time communication WebRTC or the like .

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes a switch media gateway coupled to the communications network for receiving and transmitting calls between end users and the contact center. The switch media gateway may include a telephony switch configured to function as a central switch for agent level routing within the center. In this regard the switch may include an automatic call distributor a private branch exchange PBX an IP based software switch and or any other switch configured to receive Internet sourced calls and or telephone network sourced calls. According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch is coupled to a call server which may for example serve as an adapter or interface between the switch and the remainder of the routing monitoring and other call handling systems of the contact center.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch is coupled to an interactive voice response IVR server . The IVR server is configured for example with an IVR script for querying customers on their needs. For example a contact center for IT help may tell callers via the IVR script to press if they wish to get the status of a service request whereas a contact center for a bank may tell callers to press the same number to get an account balance. Through continued interaction with the IVR customers may even complete service without needing to speak with an agent.

If the call is to be routed to an agent a request is made to the call server which interacts with a routing server for finding an appropriate agent for processing the call. The call server may be configured to process PSTN calls VoIP calls and the like. For example the call server may include a session initiation protocol SIP server for processing SIP calls.

Once an appropriate agent is available to handle a call a connection is made between the caller and the agent device collectively referenced as of the identified agent. Collected information about the caller and or the caller s historical information may also be provided to the agent device for aiding the agent in better servicing the call. In this regard each agent device may include a telephone adapted for regular telephone calls VoIP calls and the like. The agent device may also include a computer for communicating with one or more servers of the contact center and performing data processing associated with contact center operations and for interfacing with customers via voice and other multimedia communication mechanisms.

The selection of an appropriate agent for routing an inbound call may be based for example on a routing strategy employed by the routing server . The routing strategy may consider for example information about agent availability skills and other routing parameters provided for example by a statistics server .

The contact center may also include a multimedia social media server for engaging in media interactions other than voice interactions with the end user devices and or servers . The media interactions may be related for example to email vmail voice mail through email chat video text messaging web social media screen sharing and the like. According to one embodiment each agent device includes an agent desktop application referred to as an interaction workspace which an agent may invoke to engage in the media interactions. The agent desktop application may also be invoked to display customer data and information on past interactions with the customer.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center system further includes a mobile server system for interacting with customer applications installed in the mobile devices. The mobile server system may also be configured to process interactions from a web browser invoked by the customer s mobile device. According to one embodiment the mobile server system is configured to interact with the customer application and contact center resources via the REST representational state transfer protocol as is conventional in the art. According to one embodiment a particular customer application interacting with the mobile server system may be a technical support application that allows the user to view or update service requests while the user is on the move even when the user has no access to a computer.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the routing server is enhanced with functionality for managing back office offline activities that are assigned to the agents. Such activities may include for example responding to emails responding to letters handling service requests attending training seminars or any other activity that does not entail real time communication with a customer. Once assigned to an agent an activity may be pushed to the agent in real time or may appear in the agent s workbin collectively referenced as as a task to be completed by the agent. The agent s workbin may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The workbin for one or more agents may be maintained and managed centrally from an application server.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the contact center also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing different databases relating to agent data e.g. agent profiles schedules etc. customer data e.g. customer profiles interaction data e.g. details of each interaction with a customer including reason for the interaction disposition data time on hold handle time etc. and the like. The one or more mass storage devices may also store information on tasks handled by knowledge workers such as for example tasks relating to service requests provided by the customers. The information may include for example status information disposition information information on the party assigned to handle the task business value priority and the like. According to one embodiment some of the data e.g. customer profile data may be provided by a third party database such as for example a third party customer relations management CRM database via a third party server. The mass storage device may take form of a hard disk or disk array as is conventional in the art.

The various servers of may each include one or more processors executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory implemented using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also although the functionality of each of the servers is described as being provided by the particular server a person of skill in the art should recognize that the functionality of various servers may be combined or integrated into a single server or the functionality of a particular server may be distributed across one or more other servers without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention.

The mobile server system further includes an access number distribution module notification module and secure call matching module .

The access number distribution module is configured to manage distribution of contact center access numbers. According to one embodiment the module temporarily provides to the end user devices a phone number chosen for each individual inbound call based on the mobile contextual data such as for example location of the end user device or mobile service provider customer type customer availability or other characteristic e.g. date time customer profile load distribution in the contact center and the like .

The notification module is configured to engage a third party push notification service e.g. Apple Push Notification Service Android Push service or the like for providing different types of push notifications to the end user devices. The type of third party push notification service that is employed depends on the type of end user device. A push notification may be sent to a user s end user device via the appropriate push notification service when a change to the status of a pending service request by the user is detected. For example a notification may be pushed when a service request is assigned to an engineer when there is an escalation of a problem associated with the service request when an alarm is triggered with respect to the service request when the service request has been resolved and or the like. Other types of push notification may relate to expected wait time if the user is on hold or other types of notifications or updates to be provided to the customer. For example a push notification may be transmitted informing the customer that an email that the customer sent has been responded to. The updates whether transmitted via push notifications or displayed on a dedicated page of the mobile application may also relate to a particular transaction or activity associated with the customer even if the application was not invoked for conducting those transactions or activities. In this manner the customer may view updates status information and the like for all transactions or activities associated with the customer from a central location. The notifications may also be pushed for example to an agent device.

According to one embodiment the notification module may be configured to provide other types of push notifications for informing the customer of specific events such as for example when an agent is available when an agent is not available and for other types of prompting notifications and updates. For example if the contact center is an IT help desk notifications may be pushed to inform users of upcoming training sessions software release updates and other marketing and product information.

The secure call matching module is configured to temporarily store and attach contextual context data received from the customer applications to an inbound or outbound voice call. The contextual data may be arranged as key value pairs and may include information on the caller caller device caller location caller authentication data call subject e.g. based on a portion of the customer application that was invoked when requesting the call data relating to navigation within the application e.g. the types of selections made by the user as well as the order of the selections and the like. According to one embodiment when a customer invokes the customer application to transmit a request to be connected to a live agent the context of the request is sent from the application to the mobile server system over a data channel for storing by the secure call matching module. In this regard a secure token is provided to the end user device for use as a one time password for matching the stored contextual data with an inbound voice call.

According to one embodiment the contextual data may also be displayed for an agent attending the call for providing personalized experience without asking the customer to repeat his data. For example the agent may have access to the customer s location preferences status and customer history. With respect to location the customer location may be depicted for example on a map displayed to the agent. The knowledge of the customer s location may provide proactive service opportunities such as for example sending direction from a traveler s location in the airport to a new gate dispatching a claims adjustor to an accident site or responding to a customer report of a lost ATM card with the closest branch where it can be replaced. If the contact center is an IT help desk the caller s location may be used to push information on informational courses held near the caller s location.

In another example the contextual data provided by the customer application may relate to interactions by the customer with the application. Interactions outside of the application may also be captured by the application. For example the application may track and capture user interactions with a web site accessed by the customer. The interaction information may indicate if the customer is interested on a particular topic or product or whether the customer is struggling to find certain information or has questions about a particular topic. Having such context data available to the agent may help the agent to provide the assistance needed by the customer either when the customer reaches out to the contact center for help or the contact center decides to reach out to the customer as an outbound interaction e.g. when detecting that the customer needs assistance .

According to one embodiment the mobile server system further includes a database for storing customer data interaction data and the like. For example for a customer care application the database may be an SR database storing information on pending and past service requests. The SR information may include for example status information disposition information information on the party assigned to handle the service requests activities associated with the service requests business values priority values and the like. All or a portion of the information may also be stored in other mass storage devices in addition or in lieu of the SR database.

The mobile server system further includes a management interface module and routing interface module for interfacing with different components of the contact center system. For example the management interface module may be invoked to communicate with a configuration server for retrieving configuration parameters associated with the customer application . The routing interface module may be invoked to communicate with the routing server for routing interactions to agents knowledge workers and the like.

The various modules described with respect to may be distributed over one or more application servers each having a processor and memory the memory storing computer program instructions for accomplishing the functionality of the corresponding modules. Also although the modules are assumed to be separate functional units those skilled in the art will recognize that the functionality of the modules may be combined or integrated into a single module or further subdivided into further sub modules without departing from the spirit of the invention.

According to one embodiment a customer application that may be loaded onto an end user device is a financial customer application.

According to one embodiment integrated with the application is an option for contacting the enterprise s customer contact center. In this regard the application provides a contact option for requesting contact with the contact center without having to leave the application.

According to one embodiment the contextual data includes geographic location of the user. According to one embodiment the geographic location is marked on a map displayed on the agent s desktop.

According to one embodiment the agent s desktop allows information to be provided to the customer by pushing a URL to a web page containing the information. The URL may be entered in a URL area and pushed upon selection of a send option. Of course any URL may be pushed by the agent for displaying any associated content to the user.

According to one embodiment after a customer is finished with an interaction he is provided via a push notification an opportunity to rate the interaction experience via a survey. is a screen pop that is displayed on the customer s end user device asking whether the user wants to take the survey. If the customer selects to take the survey a feedback portion of the application is invoked for allowing the user to enter data for rating the interaction experience.

Referring again to selection of a history option causes the application to transmit a request to the mobile server system for retrieving a history of interactions for the customer from the mass storage device. is a screen shot of historical interaction data retrieved by the application. The retrieved data may include for example a list of inbound and outbound interactions e.g. voice calls emails chats surveys and the like stored in for example one or more databases in the mass storage device. The interactions may or may not have been initiated using the application. For example the historical interaction data may include a call made to the contact center using a traditional telephone or emails or text messages to and from contact center agents outside of the application. The interaction information e.g. date time subject resolution and the like is stored in the mass storage device and may be retrieved in response to the user actuation of the history option . are screen shots of details of particular historical interactions when such interactions are selected from the list displayed on the screen of .

According to one embodiment if a customer transmits a request for a real time interaction with an agent such as for example voice call or chat by selecting the appropriate option from the screen displayed in the routing server attempts to find an available agent to handle the interaction. If the routing server determines that there are no available agents to respond to the call it may invoke the mobile server system to transmit to the customer application a message indicating that no agents are available and further inquiring if the user would like to be notified when an agent becomes available. is an exemplary screen shot of this notification. In response to selecting Yes a notification is pushed to the end user device confirming that the user will be notified when an agent is available. is an exemplary screen shot of this later notification. In this manner the user need not remain on the call waiting to be connected to an agent. According to one embodiment the mobile server system stores the context data for the connection request and waits for an agent to become available to make the connection.

According to one embodiment once an agent is available the information of the available agent is provided by the statistics server to the routing server . The routing server informs the mobile server system that a connection is now possible. According to one embodiment the mobile server system causes a notification to be pushed to the user s end user device inquiring whether the user wants to engage in communication with the agent. is an exemplary screen shot of such a notification according to one embodiment of the invention.

If the user wants to engage in communication he or she selects a call now option . Upon receipt of the call request the mobile server system may according to one embodiment identify the end user device s current location and retrieve an access number to push to the user. Other criteria may also be used to select the appropriate access number to push to the user such as for example subject of the call agent availability and the like. For example one access number may be allocated for all calls relating to mortgage inquiries while another access number may be allocated for all calls relating to credit card accounts.

Referring again to if the customer would like to talk with the agent at a later time selection of a snooze option causes the application to inquire the customer at a preset later time whether a connection is desired at that point. According to one embodiment the snooze selection may be synched with contact center service time or even individual agent schedule and reserve an agent in time. If no agent is reserved the customer may be put on fast track e.g. move to top of the queue when the call is received in order to have it served by one of the agents in a pool. If there is some waiting time a dedicated message could be played. If the scheduled call is supposed to be initiated by the call center it could be dialed in any of the supported outbound dialing modes e.g. preview progressive or predictive .

According to one embodiment a customer may invoke the customer application to submit inquiries or service requests to the contact center. For example if in reviewing the customer s credit card transactions the customer identifies a transaction that he would like to dispute the application allows the user to submit a dispute without leaving the application. In another example if the customer wants to submit a stock trade request he or she may also do so directly from the application.

Upon actuation of the dispute this transaction option the application displays a screen with options for inputting a reason for the dispute as well as any additional details. is a screen shot of various options that are relevant to credit card disputes that are provided for selection by the customer for entering into a reasons area . is a screen shot of an area for entering additional details about the dispute . Actuation of a submit option causes the application to package the dispute data and transmit a dispute request to the mobile server system .

According to one embodiment the mobile server system receives the dispute request and works in conjunction with for example the routing server for creating an interaction to be routed to an agent. As depicted in according to one embodiment the interaction is assigned a business value as well as a priority value . The business value for the transaction may be based for example on the communication medium in which the interaction was received customer profile data service level agreements SLA subject of the transaction and the like. For example a transaction dispute by a customer with a gold label which is sent using the customer application may be assigned a business value that may be different than the business value of an inquiry by the same customer via email.

According to one embodiment the mobile server system interacts with an interaction server and from the interaction server an intelligent workload distribution system iWD may be invoked for assigning interactions to agents. According to one embodiment the iWD system is configured to access rules provided by a rules engine for assigning for instance a priority to the interaction. The iWD system returns the interaction back to the interaction server and passes it to the routing server for finally routing the interaction to an agent.

According to one embodiment the interaction is queued for routing and priority is assigned to the interaction based on for example the business value. According to one embodiment if the interaction is not served within a time frame set by the SLA associated with the assigned business value the priority of the interaction may be dynamically increased. In this manner important interactions as determined by the business value are configured to be served before less important interactions. Thus according to one embodiment business values are static while priority values may change dynamically.

The mobile server system receives the trade request and routes the request to an available agent. If an agent is not available the user is informed of this fact and asked if he would like to receive a notification when the agent is available as is exemplified via the screen shots of .

According to one embodiment the customer application provides users various communication mechanisms other than voice calls or chats as is exemplified via the screen shot of . For example the customer may select the option to receive a call callback option if the customer would rather receive the call from the agent instead of initiating the call from the end user device. If such a request is made the request is routed to an agent who then initiates an outbound call to the end user device. According to one embodiment if a connection is not made the mobile server system pushes a notification to the end user device that an agent has unsuccessfully attempted the call.

Referring again to the customer may also select the option to send an email . The application allows the customer to draft and send the email without invoking a separate email application and without requiring the user to enter a specific email address for the contact center. is a screen shot of a screen for entering the text of an email message according to one embodiment of the invention. Actuation of a send button causes the application to package and transmit the data as an email to the contact center. is an exemplary push notification that is displayed upon actuation of the send button .

According to one embodiment if the agent would like calls to be routed to an external phone he may indicate so via a different login ID . In the example of an extension ext in the login ID indicates that the agent would like to specify an external phone number. Any phone number may then be entered in a phone number area as depicted in . This allows the agent to work remotely from any location and have calls directed to the remote location.

According to one embodiment a customer application that may be loaded onto a end user device is a customer care application which may provide among other things technical support for a user. According to one embodiment the application is initially configured with the user s settings.

After registering the user the customer application may be invoked for accessing various customer support features. Although hereinafter it is assumed that the customer support provided via the customer application is IT technical support provided in response to service requests a person of skill in the art should recognize that other types of customer support may be invoked and embodiments of the invention are not limited to providing technical support via service requests.

According to one embodiment a user of the end user device may when viewing information about a particular service request make a request with respect to the service request.

Referring again to selection of the call us interaction option causes the customer application to make a request over the communication network to conduct a voice call with the contact center in regards to a particular service request. According to one embodiment in response to receiving the request the access number distribution module retrieves and temporarily assigns a number to the current session and forwards the number to the customer application for use to make an inbound call. The number may be for example a local number selected based on the customer s current geographic location.

According to one embodiment the customer application may be configured to initiate a mobile phone call to the assigned number. According to one embodiment agent availability is verified first before making the call. In this regard the routing server is configured to determine based on information provided by the statistics server whether the owner of the service request e.g. agent at the contact center assigned to service the request is available to receive the call. According to one embodiment instead of initiating a call the user of the end user device may also transmit a request to receive a call from the contact center. Of course other types of interactions may also be requested in response to actuating an appropriate interaction option such as for example a real time text based chat email and the like. The availability of one or more of these interactions may depend for example on customer segment data e.g. gold silver or bronze .

In step the notification module monitors status of one or more service requests stored in the SR database.

In step a determination is made as to whether the associated customer should be notified of the status change. In this regard the notification module determines whether the service request to which the update relates is one for which the customer has submitted a subscription for notification. According to one embodiment the customer may subscribe to receive automatic notifications when the service request is submitted. According to one embodiment the service request may be submitted via the web via the customer application via email over the phone by calling the contact center or any other mechanism conventional in the art.

If the answer is YES the notification module forwards the notification to the end user device in step . According to one embodiment of the invention the notification is transmitted as a push notification by engaging the appropriate push notification service for the end user device. The notification may include for example identification of the service request identification of the end user device to whom the notification is to be sent and or any other data related to the service request. Although push notification is used as an example of a type of notification that may be sent to the end user device a person of skill in the art should recognize that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to push notifications and any other type of notification conventional in the art may be employed for notifying a user that there has been an update in the status of a service request such as for example via an asynchronous servlet text via a short messaging service email messages displayed on the customer application and the like. For example a number text graphics color or any other insignia may be displayed on or next to the icon representing the customer application for identifying a number of status updates waiting to be retrieved. The updates are retrieved when the user selects the application and the application pulls the updates from the SR database.

In step the end user device displays via push notification that a service request has been updated and in response the user selects the displayed push notification. Selection of the push notification invokes the customer application and in step causes the customer application to automatically transmit a request e.g. an HTTP request to the mobile server for details on the particular service request.

In step the mobile server system receives the request and in response retrieves the requested data from the SR database.

In step the mobile server system transmits the service request details to the end user device for display. The display may be for example similar to the display of .

According to one embodiment in addition to invoking the customer application for viewing details for service requests the customer application may also be invoked for preparing and submitting the actual service requests and or other forms. The service request may be for example a request to fix a problem or answer a question as well as a request for a product change. The forms may be for example customer survey forms.

According to on embodiment the mobile server system and or another server in the contact center may be configured to monitor whether a service request complies with a service level agreement. For example a determination may be made whether the service request is assigned to an appropriate agent within a preset time period. According to one embodiment the customer application may be configured to visually depict a level of compliance and or key performance indicator KPI values via a visual indicator. For example a yellow flag may be displayed if the time period allotted for assigning the service request is about to expire. A red flag may be displayed once the time period expires and the service request has not yet been assigned to an agent which may lead to a drop of related KPI values. In this manner the customer is able to track the time elapsed for a service request as well as the KPI values associated with the service request.

A person of skill in the art should recognize that the customer care customer application according to embodiments of the present invention allow customers to view or update service requests while on the move without requiring access to a PC. The ability to initiate calls that are routed directed to service request owners without the customer having to manually specify any account or SR related information via an IVR saves time and results in cost savings to the contact center. The customer applications also enable the rapid sharing of data other than service request data such as for example data on software product updates or releases training schedules and locations and the like.

According to one embodiment the support provided by the system of includes the provision of a configurable mechanism for mapping context data from the customer application to an incoming voice call from a user of the customer application. The context data may include without limitation information about the user or user device location information routing parameters session parameters and the like. The routing parameters may include any information used by the contact center for routing a call such as for example language call subject information and the like. The session information may include any information for identifying a current communication session such as for example a session ID.

In a typical existing solution a customer may log onto a particular customer application e.g. banking application provide his user authentication information username and password and be authenticated for accessing for example his bank account. If the customer wants to call the contact center in regards to the account he may do so from a telephony device by dialing for example a telephone number of the contact center that is made available for example on a website. When a voice connection is made the customer may be taken through one or more re authenticating steps via for example an IVR even though the customer may already be authenticated via the customer application. During such re authentication the user may be asked for information that verifies the customer s identify such as for example an account number birthdate password and or other user credentials. The user may also be asked to specify the reason for the call or be prompted for other information either via the IVR or by an agent in order to obtain context for the call. This may be frustrating to the customer costly for the contact center due to increased call handle time and or affect contact center productivity.

According to embodiments of the present invention a voice call from a user of a customer application is matched with data that provides context for the call in order to minimize the amount of new information or repeat information that a user is prompted to enter when the connection is made. The device transmitting the context data may be the same or different from the device involved in the voice call. For example if the application is executed from a smart phone the phone may send the context data and be invoked for the voice call. If the application is executed from a non telephony device such as for example a desktop computer a separate telephony device may be invoked for the voice call.

According to some embodiments the matching of context data that already contains the user s identity information to the voice call helps avoid the need to re authenticate the customer during the voice call while maintaining the level of security that is desired by the contact center. This in turn helps to provide improved customer experience improved contact center productivity cost savings due to a reduced call handle time and the like

According to one embodiment the context data is provided to the mobile server system over a data channel in advance of the actual voice call which ensues over a voice channel. The data channel may traverse the mobile network and the Internet while the voice channel may traverse for example the PSTN via analog telephone lines that are configured with bandwidth for carrying human voice. The voice channel however is not limited to the PSTN but may extend to include any other communication medium configured to transmit human voice. For example in some embodiments the voice call may be a VoIP call that traverses the Internet. Regardless of the particular medium used to transmit the context data and or the voice call the mobile server system is configured to match an inbound or outbound call to the context data that is temporarily stored by the mobile server system in order to identify the user user s device location and other context in regards to the call. The matching or identification of the context data also includes session matching where the data session used to transmit the context data is matched with the voice session and the two are merged into a single session. This may be done by replacing a session ID for the voice session with the session ID of the data session or vice versa.

According to one embodiment the matching of a voice call to context data may utilize a calling party s ANI automatic number identification number. The matching may also be based on a randomly generated access code e.g. a dual tone multi frequency signaling DTMF token an access number e.g. telephone number SIP endpoint identifier and the like allocated to the call or a combination thereof depending for example on the level of security that is desired. For example it may be desirable to have a higher level of security for matching data provided by a banking application than for matching data for an application that allows a user to view products and initiate calls to inquire about those products. Also the type of call matching may vary based on the type of interaction requested by the customer application . For example an interaction request for a voice call may invoke one type of matching schema while an interaction request for chat may invoke another type of matching schema.

The process starts and in step the customer application transmits a request for interaction to the mobile server system . The request may be transmitted for example in response to the user selecting the option to make a voice call from the customer application . In response to the selection the customer application retrieves and transmits context data as an HTTP request for example over the data channel. If the customer application is a customer care customer application for providing IT support the context data may include for example a service request ID. Other types of context data may be transmitted for different types of applications. The type of information that is transmitted may depend for example on the security and or privacy settings stored for the user on the end user device. For example if a location services setting is turned off on the end user device location data may not be included with the context data. Once received the context data is temporarily stored by the secure call matching module .

In step the request is transmitted to the routing server and in step the routing server generates a new session ID for the data session. In addition the routing server invokes one or more business rules to identify an agent that may handle the call. The agent may be identified for example based on routing parameters included in the context data such as for example type of service requested call callback and the like language preferences transaction type and or the like. For a customer care customer application a party handling a service request may be selected based on the service request ID included as the context data from the customer application.

In step the routing server transmits the data session ID with any agent availability information to the mobile server system . According to one embodiment the access number distribution module in the mobile server system is invoked for selecting an access number from a pool of available access numbers. The access number is provided to the customer application in step over a data channel.

In step the customer application receives the access number and instructs the end user device s operating system to dial the access number for establishing a voice media session in step identified via a voice session ID.

In step the routing server obtains a DNIS dialed number identification service number for determining the access number that was dialed. In addition the secure call matching module is invoked so that matching context data may be identified for use in routing the call to a contact center resource. The matching of the context data to the voice call may be for example based on all or part of the access number ANI number and or unique code temporarily provided to the user during the data session as a one time password such as for example a DTMF token. According to one embodiment the portion of the routing strategy that is invoked for routing the call may vary depending on whether the match was successful. For example a successful match may cause the skipping over an IVR treatment that would otherwise be invoked to authenticate the user and or obtain context for the call. A successful match may also cause the routing strategy to invoke a third party authentication service for automatically authenticating the called based on unique keys provided by the authentication service to the caller.

Assuming that the data and call matching is successful all or a portion of the retrieved data is attached to a request that is transmitted in step to the call server to route the call to the identified contact center resource such as for example to an agent directory number e.g. the agent s phone number extension . If the resource is an agent device a ringing signal is transmitted to the device to the device in step . According to one embodiment all or a portion of the attached data is also forwarded by the call server to the agent device for display. In this manner the agent has access to context data made available by the customer application .

According to one embodiment the support provided by the system of includes the dynamic selection and provision of access numbers for establishing a voice call. The access number may be a telephone number for a PSTN call SIP endpoint location identifier for a VoIP call or the like.

Unlike traditional mechanisms of contacting a contact center by for example manually dialing a preset telephone number published by the contact center the access number provided to the customer application may vary depending on the context data received from the customer application and or other data retrieved by the mobile server system. For example the number may be selected from a group of access numbers based on customer location location of the mobile service provider customer type customer availability agent availability and the like. As a more specific example the access number selected may be a local telephone number based on the geographic location of the end user device. This may allow cost reductions for a call center since it helps avoid calls to a toll free number published for the contact center.

According to one embodiment an access number is selected and reserved in response to a request for interaction from a particular customer application and locked for a particular period of time for preventing the access number from being sent to another end user device transmitting another request via its customer application. According to another embodiment access numbers are not locked and may concurrently be assigned to multiple callers.

According to one embodiment the access number is used all or in part to identify stored context data about the call. If a match is made the access number is returned to the pool of access numbers from which it was selected. According to one embodiment if no match is made the access number is not returned to the pool. If a call to the access number does not arrive in a configurable period of time the access number reservation expires and the access number is returned to the pool.

In step the mobile server system invokes the management interface module for retrieving configuration data for the service for use as default data if no context data is provided with the request. The configuration data may include for example a service name expiration time location of the routing server to be invoked location for a voice XML script to be invoked and or other configuration parameters.

In step the secure call matching module stores the application context data passed by the customer application in a temporary memory location. The data may be stored in association with a unique data session ID requested and assigned by the routing server via steps . The data session ID may also be associated with an expiration time e.g. 30 seconds which may be determined for example based on the expiration time retrieved from the configuration data retrieved for the application.

In step the session ID and expiration time are transmitted customer application. The customer application may use the session ID to transmit any other data during the particular data session. According to one embodiment an access number to be dialed by the application is also transmitted to the customer application.

In step the customer application instructs the operating system of the end user device to dial the provided access number and in step a voice media session is established between the end user device and the switch media gateway . The voice media session may be a traditional telephony session over the PSTN . The voice media session may also be conducted over the Internet as a VoIP session WebRTC session or the like. According to one embodiment the voice session is assigned a separate voice session ID.

In response to the voice media session being established the media gateway transmits appropriate messages to the call server and the call server in turn generates a request to route the incoming event to the routing server .

In step the routing server translates the called DNIS number to the access number that was provided to the customer application.

In step the routing server provides a request to match the voice session to context data and associated data session stored by the mobile server system . The type of data that is transmitted with the match request depends on the type of matching that is configured for the particular customer application requested interaction call subject or the like. For certain types of applications for example the matching may be based on a combination of the called access number and ANI number in which case both numbers are transmitted with the request as is shown in the illustrated example.

In step the secure call matching module of the mobile server system is invoked for identifying any stored context data based on the data transmitted with the request for a match. If a match is made the data session is merged with the voice session by for example utilizing a single session ID for both. The matched context data is transmitted to the routing server in step and in step the secure call matching module removes the stored context data from memory. The removal may be immediate or based on the expiration time included in the configuration data or a particular time set by the module.

According to one embodiment the mobile server system maintains a history of successful and filed call matches in a database for reporting purposes and for aiding the troubleshooting of potential issues. According to one embodiment each call matching record may contain enough data for identification and troubleshooting purposes such as for example timestamps request time call time and the like session identifier mobile capabilities custom data and the like. A report may be generated based on the call matching information. Statistics about successful and failed matched calls may also be displayed on a display device of a device accessible to a system administrator.

In step the routing server utilizes all or a portion of the received context data for routing the call to an appropriate routing resource e.g. an agent . According to one embodiment the routing strategy that is employed may bypass certain authentication steps in light of certain user data being provided by the retrieved context data. For example the routing strategy may bypass an initial voice treatment where user account information is requested or where the user is asked to select a reason for the call. In some embodiments a separate authentication server may be automatically contacted for authenticating the caller based on the context data. For example if the context data includes a temporary security token provided by the authentication server the routing strategy may include providing the security token to the authentication server for verifying that the authorized user of the token is the user that has placed the voice call. The context data may also be used to find the appropriate agent for routing the call. For example if the context data indicates that the user speaks French a French speaking agent may be selected for handling the call.

When the appropriate agent is located the routing server transmits a request to the call server to route the call to the identified agent location. According to one embodiment all or part of the context data is attached to the request. In this manner the context data may be provided to the agent device for display thereon. The context data that is displayed may be similar to the context data that is displayed in the case information area of the agent desktop of .

In step the notification module of the mobile server system transmits a status notification message to a third party push notification server and the server in turn forwards the message to the end user device. The push notification server that is invoked depends on the type of push notification service that is desired such as for example Apple Push Notification Service Android Push service or the like.

In step the notification is pushed to the end user device for output by the device. The notification may include any audio and or visual notification conventional in the art.

In step the routing server determines that an agent is now available and proceeds to reserve the agent according to conventional mechanisms. In step the routing server transmits a request to the mobile server system s access number distribution module to reserve an access number and or generate an access code. In the illustrated embodiment both the access number and access code are generated and transmitted to the routing server in step along with a reservation expiration time indicative of when the access number and or code are to expire. According to one embodiment the access code is a randomly generated DTMF code.

In step the notification module of the mobile server system is invoked for transmitting a notification to the mobile application via the push notification server that an agent is now available. The notification may also inquire whether the customer still wants to talk to the available agent. In response to a positive answer the access number is transmitted to the user. According to one embodiment the access number is transmitted as a push notification message. However it may not be desirable to transmit the access code as a push notification for security reasons. In this case the access code may be transmitted via a 3rd party over for example a secure data channel.

In step the customer application instructs the operating system of the end user device to automatically dial the access number. When the call is answered by the media gateway a voice media session similar to voice media session is established in step . In the event that an access code was provided the customer application may be configured to automatically play audio tones matching the access code when the call is answered and the voice media session is established in step .

According to one embodiment instead of automatically instructing the operating system of the end user device to automatically dial the access number and or play the access code a notification may be displayed so that the user can invoke another device to engage in the voice call. This may be desirable for example if the end user device used to engage in the data session does not have telephony capabilities. For example a user may use a personal computer to browse an enterprise s website when the user selects an option on the webpage indicating that he or she desires to talk to a customer agent representative. In this case the access number and or access code may be provided to the user s web browser for display along with instructions to dial a particular phone number and enter a particular access code. The user may invoke a separate land line phone mobile phone or another telephony device to call the access number and provide the access code. The access code may be played for example in response to the user manually pressing the corresponding numbers on a telephone keypad.

Assuming that audio tones corresponding to the access code was transmitted via the voice media stream the routing server is configured to run in step a voice XML script to recognize the audio tones and translate the audio tones into an access code.

The steps that follow which are represented generally via reference number are similar to steps of . According to these steps the routing server translates the dialed DNIS number to the access number and proceeds to engage in a match of the voice call to any context data stored in association with the access number access code and or ANI number for routing the call to an available agent. According to one embodiment all or a portion of the access number may be used in conjunction with the ANI number and or access code in order to make the match.

In this regard in steps and the customer application transmits requests for status updates along with the assigned session ID and in steps and receives the requested status updates of display on the end user device e.g. . According to one embodiment a notification indicating that an agent is now available may prompt the user to select whether it desires to engage in the voice call now or wait until later. In response to the mobile application indicating that the voice call is desired and such information being forwarded to the routing server via steps and the routing server transmits in step a request for an access number to the mobile server system . An access number is then reserved and a voice connection is established in a manner similar to steps of . The remaining steps of matching the voice call to context data and routing the call to an agent are also similar to steps of .

In step the routing server executes logic for determining a resource group closest to the location of the end user device. In this regard in step the routing server transmits to a proximity service such as for example Google Maps service a request to identify a city closest to the identified geographic coordinates.

In step the proximity service identifies a name of the closest city and provides the name to the routing server in step .

In step the routing server transmits to the access number distribution module of the mobile server system a request to reserve an access number for a resource group associated with the identified city.

In step the access number distribution module proceeds to select and reserve the requested access number from a pool of available access numbers. According to one embodiment the access number that is selected is a local number associated with the identified city. The remaining steps that follow for matching an incoming voice call to the provided access number to context data and routing the call to an agent are similar to steps of .

In step the contact center resource with the proper skill is identified for handling the call. According to one embodiment the same SCXML session that was started in response to the customer requesting the callback is used for the outbound call.

Once an agent is found the agent is reserved in step and application data is attached to the request for interaction that is directed to the identified agent.

When a voice call is made to the access number and the routing server is invoked to route the call the routing strategy may simply seek to identify the access number that was called without matching the incoming call to stored context data about the individual caller. This may be desirable for example when authentication of the caller is not important and the routing strategy merely seeks to find the right agent group to route the call e.g. sales or support .

In step the routing server identifies the resource group to which to route the call and in step waits for an agent in the identified group to be available for routing the call to the agent in step .

According to one embodiment a voice call is made to the access number and the access code is transmitted via a voice media stream that is established when the call is answered by the media gateway . In the steps that follow which are represented generally via reference number a voice XML script is run to translate the audio tones received in the voice media stream into an access code. The user is then authenticated based on a match of all or a portion of the access number along with the access code. The call is then routed to the appropriate agent.

According to one embodiment the mobile server system includes an agent connection component not shown in communication with agent applications downloaded and or executed by various agent devices. Contact center agents field workers knowledge workers and the like collectively referred to as agents may preview call context data and control interactions via their respective agent applications. According to embodiments of the present invention the agent devices may be mobile devices such as for example smart phones electronic tablets and the like. Although embodiments of the present invention are discussed in terms of mobile agent devices a person of skill in the art should recognize that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to mobile devices and may also extend to stationary agent devices such as for example agent devices .

According to one embodiment the agent application is invoked for indicating presence of the agent to handle interactions. Thus instead of relying on traditional mechanisms for determining user availability to handle an interaction such as for example determining whether the agent has logged in to the agent device the agent application provides additional mechanisms to indicate agent presence which helps reduce uncertainty as to whether the agent is truly available or not.

According to one embodiment the agent application provides call context previews and control of interactions routed to an agent accessing the application. According to one embodiment the context data for a particular interaction to be routed to the agent is sent over a data channel in advance of the actual interaction. The context data is displayed by the agent application along with call management options including options to accept or decline the interaction. The context data not only allows the agent to preview information about the caller but verifies the agent s willingness to engage in the interaction. According to one embodiment interactions are routed to an agent based on presence data about the agent without sending call context previews and or without providing accept and decline options along with the previews.

According to one embodiment if the agent receiving a call preview would prefer to answer the call via a different device or a different media channel within the same device he or she may provide a command to display a list of media channels configured for the agent which may be selected to handle the interaction. Once the mobile application receives the agent s selection of the particular media channel information on the selected media channel is transmitted to the routing server for allowing a media connection to be made with the customer over the selected media channel. In this manner context preview and call management may be performed using the agent device in which the agent application is installed and or executed but the media relating to the call may be routed to any telephony device dynamically selected by the agent. That is the device that is to be used to engage in a media session with the customer need not be preselected by the agent.

The agent application provides the login information to for example the agent connection component of the mobile server system for forwarding to a workforce management server that is configured to manage the scheduling of agents. The workforce management server may be configured to provide the log in information to for example the statistics server so that the agent may start receiving interactions on the agent device. According to one embodiment an agent who has logged in for work is identified as being available by the agent connection component workforce management server and or statistics server . The agent availability is associated with the agent ID as well as with a location telephone number and or extension of the particular device on which the mobile application is executed.

According to one embodiment each media channel is identified via an identifier such as for example a chat login ID for the chat channel and telephone extensions for the telephony channels . The chat login ID may be a nickname for the agent for text based conversations. According to one embodiment the list of media channels configured for the agent along with the corresponding login IDs are stored for example in memory of a contact center server. The stored information is retrieved by the mobile application upon log in of the agent via the mobile application.

According to one embodiment the agent application provides for each media channel a presence controller for manipulation by the agent for providing express presence status on the particular media channel. According to one embodiment the mobile application may be configured to set by default the presence controller for the media channels accessible via the end user device to be on an available setting. According to another embodiment one of the various media channels associated with the agent is configured as a main or default media channel and the default media channel is automatically set to be available in response to the user invoking the agent application to log in to the contact center.

The availability of the agent on each media channel may be visually depicted via channel presence icons . While each channel presence icon visually depicts the presence of the agent on the corresponding channel the overall presence icon takes into account the agent s presence on each media channel and provides a way to quickly depict overall presence of the agent. According to one embodiment the media channels may be hidden by the mobile application and displayed in response to a user action such as for example a swipe tap and the like on the agent device.

According to one embodiment the agent connection component may be configured to for example monitor the individual media channels associated with the agent once the agent logs in and forward information as to whether the agent is available on each media channel to for example the statistics server . According to one embodiment the channel availability information may be transmitted by the agent application when the channel transitions from one state to another e.g. from being available to unavailable . The monitoring of agent availability on a channel by channel basis by the agent connection component helps to improve certainty that a user is indeed available or unavailable on a particular media channel without the need to rely on agent login or logout information alone. For example an agent may login at the beginning of the work day and indicate that he is available generally to handle interactions. However the agent may not be truly available as he may be doing other tasks that may not be automatically detected by the contact center servers without express information from the agent. At other times the agent may be available on one media channel but not on another media channel. According to one embodiment of the present invention the agent application provides the mechanism to provide express presence information on a channel by channel basis that reduces uncertainty about the true availability of the agent on each channel.

According to one embodiment if the agent does not want to be available on a particular media channel he or she may manipulate the presence controller for the corresponding media channel to set it to an unavailable setting.

According to one embodiment the unavailability information is transmitted to the agent connection component as soon as the change in state occurs for the media channel from available to unavailable. The agent presence data for the media channel as maintained by the agent connection component is updated accordingly in response to receipt of the updated presence data.

According to one embodiment the overall presence icon transitions to a partial ready state in response to one of the media channels being set to be in an unavailable state e.g. the chat media channel while another media channel e.g. mobile voice channel is in an available state.

According to one embodiment the agent may manipulate a do not disturb controller for automatically transitioning all media channels to an unavailable state. is a screen shot of an exemplary screen displayed by the agent application depicting the do not disturb controller after being set to an unavailable state according to one embodiment of the invention. The presence controllers of the individual media channels are also automatically set to be in an unavailable state causing the channel presence icons to provide a visual indication of unavailability for each media channel.

According to one embodiment the agent application provides icons for respectively accepting or declining the invitation to accept the particular interaction which context is being previewed. A running timer is displayed by the agent application for giving the agent a visual cue as to an amount of time left to accept or decline the interaction. When the timer reaches a preset timeout period the interaction is routed to a different agent. If however the agent accepts the invitation a media session is established between the media channel for which the invitation was received and the customer device.

According to one embodiment a user may select a media channel other than the media channel for which the initial invitation was received for engaging in an interaction with a customer. is a screen shot of an exemplary screen displayed by the agent application for providing a menu of media channels in which an incoming interaction may be accepted according to one embodiment of the invention. The media channels may be provided by the mobile device itself or by other devices such as for example a desk phone home phone and the like. Selection of a particular media channel causes the agent application to transmit a message to the agent connection component to transfer the interaction to the selected media channel. The transfer message is forwarded to the routing server which then transmits the same or separate message to the call server to send an invitation to the selected media channel instead of the initial media channel. A media session is established with the selected media channel according to conventional mechanisms.

Various call control options may be displayed in a tool bar . The call control options include for example placing the call on hold resuming the call transferring the call e.g. to another agent invoking a conference call and terminating the call . Some of these call control options are provided by server components 3rd party call control to complement capabilities which may lack on the mobile device e.g. invoking a conference call or invoking call recording not shown . The call control option that is invoked is displayed via identifier as well as icon .

A notes section allows the agent to receive notes entered by another agent or to enter notes while being engaged in the call. The notes may be transmitted to the agent connection component upon termination of the call for storing in the mass storage device or may be carried to a next resource agent if interaction is transferred or conferenced to another agent.

According to one embodiment the routing server call server or another application server may be configured for conversation management across various communication channels. In this regard a transaction started in one communication channel may be resumed via a different communication channel without losing context of the initial transaction. For example a customer may access a web server such as for example web server to access his account with a particular airline e.g. Blue Sky for booking a flight to a particular destination.

According to one embodiment the user may complete the booking at a later time via a separate communication channel. For example the user may call the contact center using a land line telephone mobile phone or any other communication mechanism conventional in the art. According to one embodiment the call server and or routing server is configured to retrieve a record of any pending open transactions for the calling user for inquiring of the caller whether he would like to resume the transaction. Retrieval of a record may be based for example on a match of the ANI data to the telephone number stored in the user s customer profile. If the user is not automatically identified e.g. the user is using a new phone which number is not stored in the customer profile record the call may be routed to the IVR server for prompting for other authentication information such as for example an account number.

According to one embodiment if there is an open transaction item for the user the user is prompted via the IVR server to specify whether the open transaction is to be finalized. If the answer is YES the IVR server may be configured to resume transaction from the point in which the prior transaction was left off. For example in the example of booking a flight if the user left the prior transaction prior to submitting his payment information the IVR server would be instructed to resume from that point. The IVR server may also be configured to repeat the information about the transaction stored in the transaction record such as for example the originating location the destination location flight dates and time and the like.

According to one embodiment the overall transaction may be decomposed into smaller transactions and such a nested transaction might consist of multiple steps. In some cases it would be OK to resume exactly where left off last time but sometimes it might be required to roll back to the beginning of the embedded transaction. This could be e.g. because of security reasons or because certain related data might have changed and the transaction request needs to be recreated based on the new data. One example is money transfer with fixed daily limit. When starting transfer via transaction A stopping in the middle and resuming later it has to be checked whether there was in the meantime another transaction B which already exhausted the limit.

Referring again to the web page may provide to the user an option to contact an agent directly from the website. The availability of this option may depend for example on the customer s profile data. For example a customer with a premier label may see the talk to agent option enabled on the website while a customer with a bronze level might not.

According to one embodiment selection of the talk to agent option provides additional options as to the communication channel to be invoked for the contact. For example the user may have the option to chat with the agent or request that the agent call the user at a particular phone number. The types of communication channels available to the user may depend on the customer profile information.

According to one embodiment data about the customer and interactions engaged with the customer may be stored in the mass storage device and provided to the customer application upon request. The customer may or may not have invoked the application to engage in those interactions. For example the customer may have sent an email or text or made a call outside of the application. According to one embodiment all interactions relating to the customer are stored in the mass storage device and provided to the mobile application associated with the customer. In this manner the customer has in a central location information for all interactions with the contact center even when those interactions occurred outside of the application. For example a customer may invoke the application to fill out and submit an insurance claim. As part of the claims process the customer may have to send an email including a picture of the accident scene. The customer may invoke the email outside of the application to submit the picture. The customer may then return to the application to finalize the claim. According to one embodiment when the application is invoked to retrieve interaction data relating to the claim the email from the customer is listed as part of the interaction relating to the particular claim.

According to one embodiment the interactions may be organized according to any desired criteria such as for example a transaction topic category date transaction ID and or the like. In the insurance claims example the interactions may be stored and displayed based on a claim number. The information available for the interactions may also include status information information on agents handling the interaction length of the interaction topic of conversation and the like. For example the status of an email submitted to the contact center may be marked as having been read responded to or the like. Other general status information may also be provided to the customer via the customer application. For example the status of processing an insurance claim submitted to the contact center may be displayed as pending processing or the like. Other status information may be displayed for prompting customer action. For example the status may alert the customer that an email or letter was sent. The customer may be requested to review the documents and respond accordingly e.g. sign the documents . According to one embodiment the application may be invoked to take the prompted actions. For example a copy of the documents transmitted via email or mail may be available via the application in which case the customer may open and e sign the documents directly from the application.

According to one embodiment one or more applications in the mobile server system is configured to provide logic for providing interaction history to the customer application . In this regard a customer invokes the customer application for engaging in a particular transaction. For example the transaction may be to fill out a claims form for an accident involving the customer. The application may provide a fillable form which is transmitted to the contact center upon selection of a submit option. According to one embodiment the form may be filled and submitted in various stages. As information is received at each stage by the one or more applications it is stored in a record in the mass storage device in association with the customer customer application transaction ID and or the like.

During or after filling different portions of the form the customer may initiate interaction with the contact center outside of the customer application. For example the customer may place a call send an email or transmit a text to a general agent or a specific agent assigned to the transaction. According to one embodiment the call email or text is identified by a customer name telephone number contact information transaction ID e.g. a claim number assigned by the contact center to the particular transaction or the like. The interactions received by the contact center outside of the customer application are correlated to the customer customer application transaction or the like and stored in the mass storage device. The customer may invoke a history option e.g. history option in to view a history of all interactions associated with the customer. In this regard when the one or more applications receive a request to view the history the interactions correlated to the customer customer application or transaction are transmitted to the mobile application for display.

According to one embodiment the one or more applications may be implemented via computer program instructions stored in memory and executed by a processor in the mobile server system . Of course the applications may also be implemented via hardware firmware e.g. ASIC or any combination of hardware firmware and software as will be apparent to a person of skill in the art.

While the present invention has been described in connection with certain exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

