---

title: Automatic tool alignment in a backscatter X-ray scanning system
abstract: Technologies pertaining to backscatter x-ray scanning systems are described herein. The backscatter x-ray scanning system includes an x-ray source, which directs collimated x-rays along a plurality of output vectors towards a target. A detector detects diffusely reflected x-rays subsequent to respective collimated x-rays impacting the target, and outputs signals indicative of parameters of the detected x-rays. An image processing system generates an x-ray image based upon parameters of the detected x-rays, wherein each pixel in the image corresponds to a respective output vector. A user selects a particular portion of the image, and a medical device is positioned such that its directional axis is coincident with the output vector corresponding to at least one pixel in the portion of the image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09186116&OS=09186116&RS=09186116
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09186116
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150513
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 336 146 filed on Dec. 23 2011 and entitled Automatic Tool Alignment in a Backscatter X Ray Scanning System currently allowed and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 429 781 filed on Jan. 5 2011 and entitled AN APPROACH TO PRECISION AIM USING BACKSCATTER RADIOGRAPHY the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Aspects described herein are generally directed towards technologies pertaining to backscatter radiography. More particularly aspects described herein pertain to aiming a medical device at a portion of a concealed target that is imaged using backscatter radiography.

Radiography involves the utilization of x rays to view a non uniformly composed material such as the human body. By using the physical properties of x rays an image can be developed wherein the image displays areas of a target that include different densities and compositions. An exemplary x ray imaging system is a backscatter x ray scanning system. Backscatter x ray scanning systems are configured to direct narrow collimated beams of x rays towards a target over respective output vectors such that collimated x rays in an x ray beam impact the target. At least some of the x rays will diffusely reflect upon impacting the target and a detector detects the reflected x rays. Intensity of a pixel can then be computed based upon parameters of the detected x rays that have reflected from the target. To generate an image an x ray source directs collimated x rays over a plurality of output vectors e.g. performs a scan .

Backscatter x ray scanning systems are particularly useful when it is difficult or impossible to position an x ray source and a detector on opposing sides of a target. A conventional application of a backscatter x ray scanning system occurs in airports where human bodies are scanned to detect hidden weapons liquids narcotics currency and other contraband. Another application for a backscatter x ray scanning system includes the scanning of large vehicles for contraband as the utilization of a backscatter x ray scanning system is much faster and less expensive when compared to performing physical searches.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to a backscatter x ray scanning system and more particularly to aiming a tool at a particular position on a target responsive to receipt of selection of at least one pixel in an image of the target wherein the image is generated by the backscatter x ray scanning system. A backscatter x ray scanning system includes an x ray source that generates collimated x rays over a plurality of output vectors towards a target. The backscatter x ray scanning system also includes a detector that is co located with the x ray source wherein the detector detects x rays that are diffusely reflected by the target responsive to the collimated x rays impacting the target. Parameters of x rays detected by the detector are utilized to generate an x ray image wherein a pixel of the x ray image corresponds to a respective output vector. Azimuth and elevation angles of vectors over which x rays are output by the x ray source alter when performing a scan. Image processing software is utilized to receive signals from the detector corresponding to collimated x rays transmitted over different output vectors and to generate an image based upon such signals wherein the image has a number of pixels equivalent to the number of output vectors.

In an exemplary embodiment a resulting x ray image of the target can be presented to a user on a display screen. The user may employ a user input mechanism such as a touch sensitive display a mouse a microphone or the like to identify a particular portion of the image corresponding to a region of interest of the target. A computing device that is programmed to control operation of at least one motor can receive the selection of the portion of the image from the user by way of the user input mechanism and responsive thereto transmits a signal to a motor that is operably coupled to a tool. For instance the tool may be a medical instrument a diffuser or the like. The motor can cause the tool to be positioned such that a directional axis of the tool is coincident with an output vector that corresponds to a selected pixel in the image. In other words the directional axis of the tool will be pointed at the portion of the target that corresponds to the selected pixel in the x ray image.

In an exemplary embodiment the x ray source can output collimated x rays from a single point a first position in three dimensional space. Responsive to receiving a user selection of a pixel in an x ray image the computing device can transmit a signal to the motor that causes the motor to change the position of the x ray source from the first position to a second position in three dimensional space while positioning the tool at the first position. Subsequently the directional axis of the tool can be aligned such that it is coincident with the output vector that is known to correspond to the selected pixel. Upon the directional axis of the tool being positioned coincident with the output vector corresponding to the selected pixel the tool can engage the target. For instance the tool may be a diffuser and the target may be an improvised explosive device IED that is concealed beneath the ground. The x ray image of the concealed IED may be reviewed by a user who selects a particular portion of the IED that is desirably diffused. The diffuser is then aimed towards the target by placing the directional axis thereof on the output vector corresponding to the selected location of the IED in the x ray image. The diffuser thereafter outputs a projectile that diffuses the IED. In another example the tool may be a medical instrument that is configured to perform a medical procedure on a patient the target . For example the medical tool may be a scalpel a source of electromagnetic radiation etc. In such an example the x ray image may include an image of a cancerous region in a human body and the tool can be aimed such that it is directed at the cancerous region.

Other configurations of backscatter x ray scanning systems include an x ray source that rasters vertically and or horizontally. In such an embodiment the one or more motors are operable to position the tool in three dimensional space at the position of the x ray source when the x ray source output collimated x rays that corresponds to a selected portion of an x ray image. The directional axis of the tool can thereafter be positioned such that it is coincident with the output vector of the collimated x rays. In another exemplary embodiment it may be desirable to position the tool in front of or behind the x ray source. In such an embodiment one or more motors are operable to position the tool using at least four degrees of freedom. The position of the tool can be computed based at least in part upon a known or sensed distance between the tool and the x ray source.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to backscatter x ray scanning systems will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. In addition several functional block diagrams of exemplary systems are illustrated and described herein for purposes of explanation however it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

With reference now to an exemplary system that facilitates positioning a tool such that its directional access intersects a target at a location that corresponds to a selected portion of an x ray image of such target is illustrated. The system comprises a backscatter x ray scanning system that is configured to generate an x ray image of a target that is concealed by a visual barrier . In an exemplary embodiment the target may be a weapon such as an improvised explosive device IED or mine that is placed underground such that it is not visible. In another exemplary embodiment the target may be human body tissue such as bone an organ a tumor etc.

The backscatter x ray scanning system includes an x ray source that transmits collimated x rays along an output vector towards the target . In an exemplary embodiment the x ray source may be a point source such the x ray source is stationary in three dimensional space when the backscatter x ray scanning system is performing a scan. The scan is undertaken by altering azimuth and elevation angles of output vectors of collimated x rays transmitted from the x ray source . In other exemplary embodiments during a scan the x ray source may have at least one degree of freedom corresponding thereto such that the x ray source can raster either horizontally or vertically. For instance the x ray source may transition directionally along a first axis while the elevation angle of collimated x rays is modified. In still yet another exemplary embodiment the x ray source may be transitionable along two or more axes.

The backscatter x ray scanning system further includes a detector . For each output vector over which the x ray source emits collimated x rays the detector detects respective diffusely reflected x rays and outputs a signal that is indicative of parameters of the reflected x rays . Such parameters may be or include attenuation of the reflected x rays magnitude of the reflected x rays location s on the detector where the reflected x rays impact the detector amongst other parameters.

The backscatter x ray scanning system further comprises a computing device that receives signals from the detector and generates an x ray image of the target based at least in part upon such received signals. With more specificity the system comprises a display that is in communication with the computing device . The display is shown as being separate from the backscatter x ray scanning system it is to be understood however that in other exemplary embodiments the display can be included as a portion of the backscatter x ray scanning system . The computing device comprises an image processing component which generates an x ray image that is displayed on the display . In operation the image processing component receives signals from the detector and generates the x ray image based at least in part upon such received signals wherein each pixel in the x ray image corresponds to a particular output vector over which collimated x rays are emitted from the x ray source . Accordingly the x rays on the output vector correspond to a particular pixel in the x ray image . The image processing component computes intensities for pixels that correspond to a respective plurality of output vectors and generates the image such that the image comprises the plurality of pixels with the computed intensity values. The correspondence of pixels in the image to elevation and azimuth angles of output vectors from a reference point can be known and retained in computer readable storage of the computing device .

The system further comprises a user input device that accepts input from a user . Thus the user input device may be a mouse a touch sensitive display a microphone that receives voice commands or other suitable user input device.

The user reviews the x ray image displayed on the display and selects a portion of such x ray image . For example the user can select at least one pixel in the x ray image wherein the at least one pixel corresponds to a particular position of the target relative to the backscatter x ray scanning system . In some embodiments the user may select a region of the x ray image that comprises a plurality of pixels. A particular pixel can be selected from the plurality of pixels utilizing any suitable technique for instance a most central pixel amongst the plurality of pixels can be selected.

The system further comprises a tool that has a directional axis . In an example the tool may be a diffuser that is configured to output a projectile responsive to receiving a command from the user . In another example the tool may be a medical instrument that is configured to perform a medical operation on the target responsive to receiving a command from the user . For instance the tool may be a scalpel or laser that is configured to perform an incision on the target . In yet another example the tool may be a source of electromagnetic radiation that is desirably directed towards a particular region of a patient an organ . The system further comprises an angle motor that is operably coupled to the tool . The angle motor can be configured to alter elevation and or azimuth angle of the directional axis of the tool e.g. tilt and pan the directional axis of the tool .

The system additionally comprises a motor that is operably connected to the tool wherein the motor is configured to alter a position of the tool in three dimensional space. For example the tool can be placed on a frame and the motor can cause the position configuration of the frame to change thereby changing the position of the tool in a three dimensional coordinate system.

The computing device can additionally comprise a control component that receives a signal from the user input device wherein the signal identifies at least one pixel in the image that has been selected by the user . Based upon known parameters of the backscatter x ray scanning system the control component responsive to receiving the signal from the user input device can determine a location origin of the x ray source in three dimensional space relative to a reference point and elevation and azimuth angles of the output vector corresponding to the selected at least one pixel. If the x ray source is a point source the location of the x ray source in three dimensional space will remain constant. Subsequent to the location of the x ray source elevation angle of the output vector and azimuth angle of the output vector being ascertained the control component outputs a control signal to the angle motor and or the motor that causes the motor s and or to position the tool such that the directional axis of the tool is coincident with the output vector e.g. the vector . In other words the directional axis of the tool will be aimed at a point on the target that is selected by the user via selecting a portion of the x ray image through utilization of the user input device .

As indicated above in an exemplary embodiment the x ray source may be a point source x ray source such that all x rays emitted from the x ray source during a scan originate from a single point in three dimensional space a first position . In such an embodiment subsequent to the backscatter x ray scanning system performing a scan of the target and the user selecting at least one pixel in the image the control component can cause the motor to transition the x ray source from the first position to a second position in three dimensional space and can further cause the tool to be positioned at the first position. The control component may also transmit a signal to the angle motor that causes the angle motor to alter the azimuth angle and elevation angle of the directional axis of the tool such that the directional axis of the tool is coincident with the output vector. Thereafter either automatically or responsive to input from the user the tool can engage the target .

In another exemplary embodiment either the x ray source may not be a point source or it may be desirable to position the tool in front of or behind the x ray source such that the tool is disposed between the x ray source and the target or the x ray source is disposed between the tool and the target . In such embodiments a frame coupled to the tool must allow the motor and or the angle motor to position the tool using at least four degrees of freedom e.g. horizontally vertically elevation angle and azimuth angle . In an embodiment where the x ray source is not a point source but instead rasters vertically and or horizontally when scanning the target the motor can be configured to allow placement of the tool such that the tool is transitioned to a position of the x ray source when the x ray source emitted collimated x rays over the output vector that corresponds to the at least one selected pixel.

In other embodiments rather than the user selecting at least one pixel a computer executable application can be configured to analyze the image and automatically select at least one pixel therein. For instance the computer executable application can analyze intensity values of pixels to recognize the target and can further analyze intensity values of pixels to select a particular portion of the target in the image .

Exemplary applications of the system will now be described. These applications are exemplary in nature and not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the hereto appended claims. The system may be a stationary system that is configured to scan targets that are positioned relative to the backscatter x ray scanning system . For example the target may be concealed in a piece of luggage that is positioned in front of the system by way of a conveyor wherein it is desirable to ascertain if any weapons contraband or the like is hidden in such luggage. In such an application the user can review the x ray image to ascertain if a target of interest is inside the luggage and if so can direct the tool which may be a diffuser to diffuse the weapon.

In another exemplary application the target may be an organ or other portion of a human body that is desirably subjected to a medical procedure. In such an application the tool may be a medical instrument such as a source of electromagnetic radiation a laser a scalpel etc. The user can review the portion of the human body by way of the image and can aim the tool towards a desired position on the target by interacting with the x ray image . The user may then cause the tool to perform a medical procedure upon the directional axis of the tool being aimed as desired relative to the target .

In still yet another exemplary application the backscatter x ray scanning system may be placed upon a movable robot that is configured to search for concealed explosive devices. Accordingly the user can direct the robot to a desired position and can direct the backscatter x ray scanning system to generate x ray images of targets beneath the earth. If the backscatter x ray scanning system generates an image that shows existence of an explosive device then the user can align the directional axis of the tool to a particular point on the target by interacting with the x ray image as described above. The user may then cause the tool to output a projectile to diffuse the explosive device. These and other applications are contemplated by the inventors and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

With reference now to an exemplary depiction of positioning of a tool relative to the target is illustrated. The x ray image includes an image of at least a portion of the target . The user can select a particular point of the target in the x ray image for example by utilizing a cursor and selecting the point with the cursor . As described above the point in the x ray image corresponds to a point on the target and such point in the x ray image corresponds to a particular output vector V. The correspondence between the output vector and the pixel can be known based on intrinsic parameters of the backscatter x ray scanning system . In the exemplary depiction the x ray source is a point source such that the x ray source remains at a first position X Y Z during a scan. The tool can be in a second position in three dimensional space X Y Z .

Subsequent to the user selecting the point in the x ray image the control component outputs a signal to the motor and the motor transitions the x ray source to a third position in three dimensional space. The motor additionally causes the tool to be positioned at the first position X Y Z . It is to be understood that the control component can also cause the motor to place the x ray source at the second position. As the tool is located at the first position the angle motor can be employed to align the directional axis of the tool set the elevation angle and azimuth angle to the point on the target without ascertaining distance between the tool and the point . Instead the directional the axis of the tool is coincident with the output vector V of the source that corresponds to the selected point in the x ray image .

Now referring to an exemplary configuration that can allow the tool to be co located with the x ray source is illustrated. The configuration includes an elliptical frame wherein the x ray source and the tool are mounted on the elliptical frame . The x ray source is initially located at a first position in three dimensional space. The motor is operably coupled to the elliptical frame and can cause the elliptical frame to rotate about an axis . The x ray source performs a scan while located at the first position and an x ray image is generated based upon the scan. Subsequently the user interacts with the resulting image requesting that the tool be aimed towards a particular point on the target . The control component transmits a signal to the motor causing the motor to rotate the elliptical frame about the axis until the tool resides in the first position and the x ray source is moved out of the first position . The configuration is exemplary and is intended to illustrate but one possible configuration for locating the tool at the scan position of the x ray source .

With reference now to an exemplary depiction of positioning the tool such that its directional axis is coincident with an output vector V that corresponds to the selected point in the x ray image is illustrated. As described above the user selects the point in the x ray image . The control component responsive to receiving the selection from the user causes the motor and the angle motor to position the tool such that the directional axis is coincident with the output vector V. In such depiction the tool is desirably positioned in front of or behind the x ray source relative to the target . Accordingly at least four degrees of freedom are needed to position the tool horizontal vertical azimuth angle and elevation angle . The control component when generating the signal for transmittal to the motor and the angle motor can consider various factors to correctly position the tool such as an initial location of the x ray source an initial location of the tool distance D of the vector between the x ray source and the tool etc. In an exemplary embodiment the control component causes the motor to position the tool between the source and the target . In other embodiments the control component can position the tool such that the x ray source is between the tool and the target .

With reference now to the computing device is shown. The computing device comprises a processor and a memory wherein the memory includes instructions that are executable by the processor . In an example the memory may be RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other suitable computer readable storage.

The memory includes the image processing component that receives signals from the detector and generates an x ray image responsive to receipt of such signals. The memory also comprises the control component that receives a signal from the user input device that indicates that the user has selected at least one pixel in the x ray image generated by the image processing component . The memory further includes scanner parameters wherein the scanner parameters are indicative of a relation between pixels in the image generated by the image processing component and corresponding output vectors over which collimated x rays are transmitted by the x ray source . The control component responsive to receiving a selection of at least one pixel in the image can access the scanner parameters to ascertain azimuth and elevation angles of the output vector relative to a reference point corresponding to the at least one selected pixel and can output control signals to the motor and or the angle motor responsive to accessing the scanner parameters .

Turning now to an exemplary robot that includes the backscatter x ray scanning system is illustrated. The robot comprises wheels that are driven by a motor not shown . In an example the wheels can be controlled via a remote control device and or can be automatically controlled through utilization of computer executable code installed on a computing device included in the robot . The robot includes a frame that supports the backscatter x ray scanning system . In an exemplary embodiment the x ray source in the backscatter x ray scanning system can be configured to perform a scan of a particular area responsive to receipt of a command from a remotely located user. In another exemplary embodiment the backscatter x ray scanning system can be configured to continuously perform scans as the robot transitions to different locations.

The backscatter x ray scanning system also includes a transmitter that can wirelessly transmit images to a remotely located computing device . The computing device includes a display wherein a user can review x ray images generated by the backscatter x ray scanning system on the display . If the user wishes to cause the tool to be aimed at a particular point of a scanned target the user can select the point corresponding to the target as shown in the image on the display screen by way of a user input mechanism. Such selection can be transmitted back to the robot by way of the transmitter . The control component not shown may then output a control signal to the motor and the angle motor that causes the motors and to position the tool such that the directional axis of the tool is coincident with the output vector of collimated x rays emitted by the x ray source that corresponds to at least one selected pixel in the image shown on the display . The user may then remotely cause the tool to engage the target for instance by causing a signal to be transmitted from the remotely located computing device back to the tool by way of the transmitter .

With reference now to various exemplary methodologies are illustrated and described. While the methodologies are described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies may be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like. The computer readable medium may be any suitable computer readable storage device such as memory hard drive CD DVD flash drive or the like. As used herein the term computer readable medium is not intended to encompass a propagated signal.

Referring now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates generating a control signal that causes a motor to position a tool such that a directional axis of the tool is coincident with an output vector over which collimated x rays from an x ray source are directed towards a target is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a selection of a pixel in an x ray image of a concealed target is received. As described above the x ray image is generated by a backscatter x ray scanning system and a location of the pixel in the x ray image corresponds to a particular output vector over which collimated x rays generated by the x ray score source travel during a scan undertaken by the backscatter x ray scanning system.

At responsive to receiving the selection of the pixel in the x ray image a control signal is generated that causes a motor to position a tool such that a directional axis of the tool is coincident with the output vector. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology for causing a tool to engage a particular point of a target is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at data from a detector that detects x rays that have diffusely reflected from a concealed target are received. The detected x rays are originated by an x ray source that directs collimated x rays along an output vector towards the concealed target.

At subsequent to receiving the data from the detector an x ray image of the target is generated. The x ray image of the target includes a pixel that has an intensity that is a function of the data received from the detector. Additionally a location of the pixel in the image is known to correspond to the vector the azimuth and elevation angles of the vector from a reference point .

At a selection of the pixel in the x ray image is received by way of a user input activism and at responsive to receiving the selection of the pixel in the x ray image a first signal is transmitted to a motor wherein the first signal causes the motor to position a tool relative to the target such that a directional axis of the tool is coincident with the aforementioned vector. Accordingly the directional axis of the tool is pointed towards a point on the target that corresponds to the selected pixel in the image.

At a second signal is received wherein the second signal indicates that the directional axis of the tool is coincident with the output vector. That is a sensor can sense when the tool is in the desired position and can output a signal responsive to sensing that the tool is in the desired position.

At subsequent to receiving the second signal a third signal can be transmitted to the tool that causes the tool to engage the target such that the tool engages the target at a location thereon that corresponds to the selected pixel in the x ray image. For example the tool may be a diffuser that outputs a projectile along the vector. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that supports generating an x ray image. In another example at least a portion of the computing device may be used in a system that supports generating control signals for transmittal to a motor wherein the control signals are configured to position a tool relative to a target. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The memory may be or include RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other suitable memory. The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store backscatter x ray scanning system parameters image data etc.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may be or include any suitable computer readable storage including a hard disk memory etc. The data store may include executable instructions backscatter x ray scanning system parameters image data etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

