---

title: Method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device and electronic device using same
abstract: A method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device is provided. The method determining, among the plurality of external electronic devices, at least one external electronic device connected with the electronic device, transmitting signals to the at least one external electronic device, receiving data corresponding to the signals from the at least one external electronic device, selecting one of the at least one external electronic device based on the received data and transmitting an operation execution signal for the data to the selected external electronic device. A method of selecting an external electronic device connected with electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving a signal from the electronic device, transmitting data corresponding to the signal to the electronic device, receiving an operation execution signal for the data from the electronic device and performing at least one of various operations according to the operation execution signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654901&OS=09654901&RS=09654901
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09654901
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150410
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Apr. 11 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0043806 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device and an electronic device using the same.

As the market in wearable devices has expanded interest in various types of wearable devices has also increased. Users may collect data through wearable devices in various ways. Further the collected data may be immediately displayed as information through a display or a speaker of the wearable device worn by the user.

However when data is transmitted received through a plurality of wearable devices devices to transmit receive the data may be redundantly selected. When the received data is displayed devices to display the data may be redundantly operated.

The redundant selection and operation of the wearable devices may lead to inaccurate transmission of data output to users and also increased power consumption of the devices due to inefficient driving.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device and an electronic device using the same which clearly transmit pieces of information to be output to users and efficiently drive a plurality of wearable devices so as to reduce power consumption through a method of selectively controlling the wearable devices according to types and priorities of the pieces of information to be output.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device is provided. The method includes determining among the plurality of external electronic devices at least one external electronic device connected with the electronic device transmitting signals to the at least one external electronic device receiving data corresponding to the signals from the at least one external electronic device selecting one of the at least one external electronic device based on the received data and transmitting an operation execution signal for the data to the selected external electronic device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication module configured to communicate with a plurality of external electronic devices a display module configured to display data of an external electronic device selected from among the plurality of external electronic devices and an application processor AP configured to select the external electronic device having transmitted data corresponding to a signal among data received from the plurality of external electronic devices wherein the AP determines from among the plurality of external electronic devices at least one external electronic device connected with the electronic device transmits signals to the plurality of external electronic devices receives data corresponding to the signals from the plurality of external electronic devices selects one of the external electronic devices based on the received data and transmits an operation execution signal to the selected external electronic device.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present disclosure a method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving a signal from the electronic device transmitting data corresponding to the signal to the electronic device receiving an operation execution signal for the data from the electronic device and performing at least one of various operations according to the operation execution signal.

In accordance with still another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication module configured to communicate with an electronic device or other external electronic devices a sensor module configured to measure a sensor value corresponding to a data request signal received from the electronic device and an application processor AP configured to select an external device having data corresponding to a signal transmitted from the electronic device among the data received from the external device wherein the AP receives the signal from the electronic device transmits the data corresponding to the signal to the electronic device receives an operation execution signal for the data from the electronic device and performs at least one of various operations according to the operation execution signal.

The present disclosure provides a method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device that can accurately transmit output data to a user by selectively controlling a plurality of wearable devices according to the type and priority of information to be output and can reduce unnecessary power consumption by efficiently driving the wearable devices and an electronic device using the same.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

The expressions such as include and may include which may be used in the present disclosure denote the presence of the disclosed functions operations and constituent elements and do not limit one or more additional functions operations and constituent elements. In the present disclosure the terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of the addition of one or more other characteristics numbers operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

In the present disclosure the expression and or includes any and all combinations of the associated listed words. For example the expression A and or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

In the present disclosure expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second etc. and or the like may modify various elements. However such elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing an element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although for both of them the first user device and the second user device are user devices. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be also termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the case where according to which a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to other component it should be understood that not only the component is directly connected or accessed to the other component but also another component may exist between the component and the other component. Meanwhile in the case where according to which a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to other component it should be understood that there is no component therebetween.

The terms used in the present disclosure are only used to describe specific various embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and or scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. In addition unless otherwise defined all terms defined in generally used dictionaries may not be overly interpreted.

For example the electronic device corresponds to a combination of at least one of the followings a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera or a wearable device. Examples of the wearable device are a head mounted device HMD e.g. electronic eyeglasses electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an appcessory an electronic tattoo a smart watch etc.

The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be smart home appliances. Examples of the smart home appliances are a television TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaning device an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder an electronic album or the like.

The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the following medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a scanning machine an ultrasonic scanning device etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device an electronic equipment for ships e.g. navigation equipment gyrocompass etc. avionics a security device a head unit for vehicles an industrial or home robot an automatic teller s machine ATM a point of sales POS system etc.

The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the following furniture or a portion of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector various measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter and a wave meter etc. respectively. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may also include a combination of the devices listed above. In addition the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the description the term a user may be referred to as a person or a device that uses an electronic device e.g. an artificial intelligent electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output I O interface a display a communication interface and an application control module .

The bus may be a communication circuit that connects the components to each other and transfers data e.g. control messages between the components.

The processor may receive instructions from the components e.g. the memory I O interface display communication interface application control module etc. via the bus decode them and perform corresponding operations or data processing according to the decoded instructions.

The memory may store instructions or data transferred from created in the processor or the other components e.g. the I O interface display communication interface application control module etc. . The memory may include programming modules e.g. a kernel middleware application programming interface API application module etc. Each of the programming modules may be software firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus processor memory etc. used to execute operations or functions of the programming modules e.g. the middleware API and application module . The kernel may also provide an interface that can access and control manage the components of the electronic device via the middleware API and application module .

The middleware may make it possible for the API or application module to perform data communication with the kernel . The middleware may also perform control operations e.g. scheduling load balancing for task requests transmitted from the application module by methods for example a method for assigning the order of priority to use the system resources e.g. the bus processor memory etc. of the electronic device to at least one of the applications of the application module .

The API is an interface that allows the application module to control functions of the kernel or middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control character control video process etc.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the application module may include applications that are related to Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS email calendar alarm health care e.g. an application for measuring the blood sugar level a workout application etc. environment information e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity temperature etc. and so on. The application module may be an application related to exchanging information between the electronic device and the external electronic devices e.g. an electronic device . The information exchange related application may include a notification relay application for transmitting specific information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing external electronic devices.

For example the notification relay application may include a function for transmitting notification information created by the other applications of the electronic device e.g. SMS MMS application email application health care application environment information application etc. to an external electronic device e.g. electronic device . In addition the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device e.g. electronic device and provide it to the user. The device management application can manage e.g. to install delete or update part of the functions of an external electronic device e.g. electronic device communicating with the electronic device e.g. turning on off the external electronic device turning on off part of the components of the external electronic device adjusting the brightness or the display resolution of the display of the external electronic device etc. applications operated in the external electronic device or services from the external electronic device e.g. call service or messaging service etc.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the application module may include applications designated according to attributes e.g. type of electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is a digital audio player the application module may include an application related to music playback. If the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application module may include an application related to health care. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the application module may include at least one of the following an application designated in the electronic device and applications transmitted from external electronic devices e.g. server electronic device etc. .

The I O interface may receive instructions or data from the user via an I O system e.g. a sensor keyboard or touch screen and transfers them to the processor memory communication interface or application control module through the bus . For example the I O interface may provide data corresponding to a user s touch input to a touch screen to the processor . The I O interface may receive instructions or data from the processor memory communication interface or application control module through the bus and output them to an I O system e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the I O interface may output voice data processed by the processor to the speaker.

The display may display information e.g. multimedia data text data etc. on the screen so that the user can view it.

The communication interface may communicate between the electronic device and an external system e.g. an electronic device or server . For example the communication interface may connect to a network in wireless or wired mode and communicate with the external system. Wireless communication may include at least one of the following Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC GPS or cellular communication e.g. long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telephone system UMTS wireless broadband Wi Bro global system for mobile communications GSM etc. . Wired communication may include at least one of the following universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 plain old telephone service POTS etc.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network may include at least one of the following a computer network Internet Internet of things telephone network etc. The protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external system e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol may be supported by at least one of the following application module API middleware kernel and communication module .

The application control module may process at least a part of the information acquired from other components e.g. processor memory I O interface and communication interface and provides the user with the processing result in various ways. For example the application control module may control a part of the functions of the electronic device in order for the electronic device to interoperate with other electronic device e.g. electronic device and server using the processor or independently thereof. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part of the application control module may be included in the server such that at least one of the operations of the application control module can be supported by the server . Additional information on the application control module is provided through the description hereinafter with reference to

Referring to the electronic device may include one or more processors of the application processor AP a communication module subscriber identification module SIM cards   to  N a memory a sensor module an input system a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control a number of hardware or software components connected thereto by executing the operation system or applications process data including multimedia data and perform corresponding operations. The AP may be implemented with a system on chip SoC . In an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. communication interface performs communication for data transmission reception between the other electronic devices e.g. an electronic device server that are connected to the electronic device e.g. electronic device via the network. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice call video call SMS or Internet service etc. via a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS Wi Bro GSM etc. . The cellular module may perform identification or authentication for electronic devices in a communication network by using their SIM cards e.g. SIM cards   to  N . In an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform part of the functions of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform part of the functions for controlling multimedia.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . The cellular module may be implemented with for example an SoC. Although the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in is implemented in such a way that the cellular module e.g. communication processor the power management module the memory etc. are separated from the AP it can be modified in such a way that the AP includes at least part of those e.g. cellular module .

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module e.g. communication processor may load instructions or data transmitted from at least one of the following non volatile memory or other components on a volatile memory and then process them. The AP or the cellular module may also store data in a non volatile memory which is transmitted from created in at least one of the other components.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include processors for processing transmission reception of data respectively. Although the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in is implemented in such a way that the cellular module Wi Fi module BT module GPS module and NFC module are separated from each other it can be modified in such a way that part of those e.g. two or more are included in an integrated chip IC or an IC package. For example part of the processors corresponding to the cellular module Wi Fi module BT module GPS module and NFC module e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be implemented with an SoC.

The RF module may transmit or receive data e.g. RF signals. The RF module may include a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA etc. The RF module may also include parts for transmitting receiving electromagnetic waves e.g. conductors wires etc. via free space during wireless communication. Although the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in is implemented in such a way that the cellular module Wi Fi module BT module GPS module and NFC module share the RF module it can be modified in such a way that at least one of those transmits or receives RF signals via a separate RF module.

The SIM cards   to  N may be cards with a SIM. The SIM cards   to  N may be fitted into corresponding slots   to  N of the electronic device. The SIM cards   to  N may include unique identification information e.g. integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. memory may include built in memory and or external memory . The built in memory may include at least one of the following volatile memory e.g. dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM etc. non volatile memory e.g. one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM not and NAND flash memory not or NOR flash memory etc.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the built in memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive e.g. compact flash CF secure digital SD micro SD mini SD extreme digital XD a memory stick etc. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device via various types of interface. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include storage devices or storage media such as hard drives.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or sense operation states of the electronic device and convert the measured or sensed data into electrical signals. The sensor module may include at least one of the following gesture sensor A gyro sensor B atmospheric pressure sensor C magnetic sensor D acceleration sensor E grip sensor F proximity sensor G color sensor H e.g. red green blue RGB sensor biosensor I temperature humidity sensor J luminance sensor K and ultra violet UV sensor M.

The sensor module may also include an e nose sensor electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor Infra Red IR sensor a fingerprint sensor iris sensor etc. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors.

The input system may include a touch panel a pen sensor i.e. a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input system . The touch panel may sense touches in at least one of the following capacitive sensing mode pressure sensing mode infrared sensing mode and ultrasonic sensing mode. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. When the touch panel is designed to operate in capacitive sensing mode it can sense mechanical physical touches or proximity of an object. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In that case the touch panel can provide tactile feedback to the user.

The pen sensor i.e. digital pen sensor may be implemented in the same or similar way as receiving a user s touch input or by using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include mechanical buttons optical keys or a key pad. The ultrasonic input system is a device that can sense sounds via a microphone of the electronic device by using an input tool for generating ultrasonic signals and can check the data. The ultrasonic input system can sense signals in wireless mode. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user s inputs from an external system e.g. a computer or server via the communication module .

The display module e.g. display may include a panel a hologram unit or a projector . The panel may be implemented with a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLEDs or the like. The panel may be implemented in a flexible transparent or wearable form. The panel may form a single module with the touch panel . The hologram unit shows a three dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The projector may display images by projecting light on a screen. The screen may be placed for example inside or outside the electronic device . In an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram unit or the projector .

The interface may include an HDMI a USB an optical interface a D subminiature D sub etc. The interface may also be included in the communication interface shown in . The interface may also include a mobile high media card MHL interface an SD card a multi media card MMC interface an infrared data association IrDA standard interface or the like.

The audio module may convert between audio and electrical signals. At least part of the components in the audio module may be included in the I O interface shown in . The audio module may process audios output from input to for example a speaker a receiver earphones a microphone etc.

The camera module may take still images or moving images. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. on the front side and or the back side a lens an image signal processor ISP a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp or the like.

The power management module may manage electric power supplying to the electronic device . The power management module may include a power management IC PMIC a charger IC a battery or fuel gauge etc.

The PMIC may be implemented in the form of IC chip or SoC. Charging electric power may be performed in wired or wireless mode. The charger IC may charge a battery preventing input over voltage or input over current from inputting to the battery from a charger. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may be implemented with a wired charging type and or a wireless charging type. Examples of the wireless charging type of charger IC are a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type an electromagnetic type etc. If the charger IC is implemented with a wireless charging type it may include an additional circuit for wireless charging e.g. a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier etc.

The battery gauge may measure the residual amount of battery the level of voltage the level of current temperature during the charge. The battery charges electric power and supplies it to the electronic device . The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator shows states of the electronic device or of the parts e.g. AP e.g. a booting state a message state a recharging state etc. The motor converts an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. Although it is not shown the electronic device may include a processor for supporting a mobile TV e.g. a GPU. The mobile TV supporting processor may process media data that comply with standards of digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB media flow etc.

Each of the elements units of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be implemented with one or more components and be called different names according to types of electronic devices. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may include at least one element described above. The electronic device may be modified in such a way as to remove part of the elements or include new elements. In addition the electronic device according to the present disclosure may also be modified in such a way that parts of the elements are integrated into one entity that performs their original functions.

In the present disclosure the terminology module refers to a unit including hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. For example the terminology module is interchangeable with unit logic logical block circuit etc. A module may be the least unit or a part of an integrated component. A module may be the least unit or a part thereof that can perform one or more functions. A module may be implemented in mechanical or electronic mode. For example modules according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented with at least one of the following an application specific IC ASIC chip field programmable gate array FPGAs and a programmable logic device that can perform functions that are known or will be developed.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a communication module including a BT module for communicating with external devices a display module for displaying data of an external device selected from the external devices and an application processor for selecting an external device having transmitted data corresponding to a signal among data received from the external devices wherein the application processor transmits signals to the external devices receives data for the signals from the external devices selects one of the external devices based on the received data and transmits an operation execution signal to the selected external device.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a communication module for communicating with the external devices a display module for displaying data of an external device selected from the external devices and an application processor for selecting an external device having transmitted data corresponding to a signal among data received from the external devices wherein the application processor transmits signals to the external devices receives data for the signals from the external devices selects one of the external devices based on the received data and transmits an operation execution signal to the selected external device.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a display module for displaying data received from an external device a communication module for communicating with the electronic device or the external device a sensor module for measuring a sensor value corresponding to a data request signal received from the electronic device and an application processor for selecting an external device to transmit data corresponding to a signal transmitted from the electronic device among the data received from the external device wherein the application processor receives the signal from the electronic device transmits the data corresponding to the signal to the electronic device receives an operation execution signal for the data from the electronic device and performs at least one of various operations according to the operation execution signal.

In one of the various embodiments of the present disclosure currently connected electronic devices are classified based on flowcharts illustrated in .

Referring to the AP of the first electronic device may search for second electronic devices having one or more connection logs through the BT module in operation . The first electronic device may identify a BT communication log list to search for the second electronic devices having the connection log. In operation AP of the first electronic device may classify second electronic devices that can receive a data output command signal and output the data among the found second electronic devices and may designate the classified second electronic devices as group A. The AP of the first electronic device may classify as group B the remaining electronic devices except for the non connected second electronic device among the second electronic devices classified as group A in operation . Whether the second electronic devices are in a non connected state may be determined through sensing by sensors of the sensor modules of the second electronic devices. Among the sensors of the sensor module particularly a proximity sensor may determine whether the second electronic device is in a connected state. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may communicate with the second electronic devices of group B through BT communication.

Referring to the AP of the first electronic device may search for second electronic devices having one or more connection logs through the BT module in operation . The AP of the first electronic device may identify a BT communication log list to search for the second electronic devices having the connection log. The AP of the first electronic device may classify as group A the remaining electronic devices except for the non connected second electronic device among the found second electronic devices in operation . Whether the second electronic devices are connected or not may be determined through sensing by sensors of the sensor modules of the second electronic devices. Among the sensors of the sensor module particularly a proximity sensor may determine whether the second electronic device is in a connected state. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may classify second electronic devices which can receive a data output command signal and output the data among the second electronic device of group A and may designate the classified second electronic devices as group B. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may communicate with the second electronic devices of group B.

Referring to the AP of the first electronic device may search for devices using the same account among the second electronic devices in operation . The AP of the first electronic device may classify as group A the remaining electronic devices except for the second electronic device which is not connected to the first electronic device among the second electronic devices using the same account in operation . Whether the second electronic devices are in a non connected state may be determined through sensing by sensors of the sensor modules of the second electronic devices. Among the sensors of the sensor module particularly a proximity sensor may determine whether the second electronic device is a connected state. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may classify second electronic devices which can receive a data output command signal and output the data among the second electronic device of group A and may designate the classified second electronic devices as group B. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may communicate with the second electronic devices of group B by controlling the BT module .

In one of the various embodiments of the present disclosure the optimal second electronic device may be determined by identifying types of data to be output and states of the second electronic devices to output the data.

For example when the AP of the first electronic device is to output vibrations the AP may receive corresponding sensor values from sensor modules of the second electronic devices particularly a gyro sensor or an acceleration sensor to detect motions of the second electronic devices. The AP of the first electronic device may determine through the sensor values whether the second electronic devices are currently moving or not. Since the AP of the first electronic device desires to output the vibrations the AP may select the second electronic device having the smallest motion that is the smallest sensor value received from the sensor module. The AP of the first electronic device may control the BT module to transmit a vibration output command signal to the selected second electronic device . For example when the user is walking the AP of the first electronic device may transmit a signal for outputting data to a wristband which moves relatively less than a shoe rather than outputting data through the shoe.

For example when the AP of the first electronic device desires to output a voice the AP may select a device having the smallest ambient noise based on input values of microphones of the second electronic devices having the microphones. Further the AP may select the second electronic device that can output a volume level of the voice to be output from the first electronic device .

For example when the AP of the first electronic device desires to output visual information such as a color the AP may recognize a state of the second electronic device through the sensor modules of the second electronic devices particularly an IR sensor or an illumination sensor. Alternatively the recognition is made through a combination of the IR sensor and the illumination sensor. Further when the second electronic device includes a camera the AP of the first electronic device may recognize whether the user looks at the second electronic device . The AP of the first electronic device may select the second electronic device at which the user looks or the second electronic device having small obstructions from data of the sensors. When the user currently puts their hands into their pockets the AP of the first electronic device may select a shoe or a necklace which is relatively less obstructed without displaying visual information through a ring. The shoe or necklace which is the selected second electronic device may display the visual information received from the second electronic device by controlling an LED.

One of the various embodiments of the present disclosure may correspond to all embodiments in common.

The AP of the first electronic device may select the second electronic device to output data. Alternatively the AP of the first electronic device may select the second electronic device to output data by comparing pieces of data between the second electronic devices. When selecting the second electronic device the AP of the first electronic device may identify a battery state. The second electronic device may require a significant amount of power consumption to display data or perform an operation according to the data. Accordingly in selecting the second electronic device identifying whether the battery state is higher than or equal to a predetermined level is a top priority.

One of the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be described through Table 1. Table 1 shows optimal output data of second electronic devices according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to Table 1 the type of optimal data according to the second electronic device may be pre defined in various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example the AP of the first electronic device may instruct the second electronic devices to transmit data related to the user s pulse. The second electronic devices for example the shoe and the wristband in Table 1 may attempt to transmit the data related to the signal received from the first electronic device . The second electronic devices may transmit the data related to the signal received from the first electronic device to the first electronic device . The AP of the first electronic device may determine data which is most suitable for the user s pulse among the received data. Since the wristband is a device suitable for outputting the user s pulse between the shoe and the wristband the AP of the first electronic device may select the wristband and control the display unit to output data received from the wristband for the user or perform an operation for displaying the data.

Further the second electronic devices having received the instruction for example the wristband and the ring in Table 1 may collect user pulse data from sensors of the devices and transmit the collected data to the first electronic device . When the AP of the first electronic device determines that a plurality of pieces of received data correspond to pieces of data received from the second electronic devices which are most suitable for outputting a pulse the AP of the first electronic device may calculate an average value of the plurality of pieces of data. The AP of the first electronic device may calculate an average value of a plurality of pieces of data and control the display unit to output the calculated average value for the user or perform an operation for displaying the data.

As shown in Table 1 the second electronic devices may output different types of data. Each of the second electronic devices may receive a signal of the first electronic device and transmit data related to the signal to the first electronic device . At this time the second electronic device may transmit the data to the first electronic device on a predetermined cycle. The second electronic device may transmit data to the first electronic device on different cycles according to the data type. For example pulse and heartbeat data types may be transmitted to the first electronic device every second to monitor user health. The data type such as the number of operations may be transmitted to the first electronic device every 30 minutes to monitor a quantity of exercise performed by the user. The data type such as a cholesterol level may be transmitted to the first electronic device at each meal time. This is so the AP of the first electronic device can monitor which food is good for a following meal. Further the data type such as body temperature may be transmitted to the first electronic device every minute. This is so the AP of the first electronic device can monitor the user s health for the same reason as that of monitoring the user s pulse and heartbeat.

The various embodiments of the present disclosure for selecting the second electronic device to I O data can be applied to below.

Referring to the AP of the first electronic device may determine the type of signal to be transmitted to the second electronic devices in operation . The electronic devices that can output the signal may vary depending on the signal type. After determining the signal type the AP of the first electronic device may transmit the signal to the second electronic devices. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may make a request for transmitting pieces of data related to the signal type to a plurality of second electronic devices. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may receive the pieces of data related to the signal type from the second electronic devices. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may determine the second electronic device suitable for performing an operation according to the signal based on the pieces of data received from the second electronic devices. A process for determining the second electronic device may include the above described various embodiments of the present disclosure. In operation the AP of the first electronic device may control the BT module to transmit the signal to the second electronic device which is determined as the suitable device.

Referring to a plurality of second electronic devices may transmit receive data and determine to perform operations. In operations to a second electronic device A and a second electronic device B may transmit receive at least one of a signal and data through BT communication. The second electronic device A may detect data to be output for a signal received from the first electronic device in operation although this is not illustrated in . In operation the second electronic device A may transmit the detected data A to the second electronic device B which is different from the second electronic device A . The second electronic device B may receive the data A transmitted from the second electronic device A and also may detect data B to be output for a signal received from the first electronic device in operation although this is not illustrated in . In operation it may be determined whether data B has a higher priority than data A. The priority may be configured not to overlap a plurality of second electronic devices to output one output data. When a processor of the second electronic device B determines that data A has a higher priority than data B in operation the second electronic device B may proceed to operation and transmit a command performing an operation for data A. In operation the second electronic device A may perform the operation for data A in response to the command received from the second electronic device B . When the second electronic device B determines that data A has a higher priority than data B in operation the second electronic device B may proceed to operation and perform an operation for data B. In operation the process of determining the priority may include a simple comparison between data A and data B. Further the process of determining the priority may include a process of comparing states of the second electronic device having transmitted data and selecting data transmitted by an optimal second electronic device.

Referring to in operations and the first electronic device the second electronic device A and the second electronic device B may transmit receive signals through BT communication. Although illustrates an operation performed by three electronic devices a plurality of second electronic devices and the first electronic devices may transmit receive signals through BT communication. The second electronic device A may detect data A to be output for a signal which is not illustrated in but received from the first electronic device that is data A corresponding to a condition in operation . The second electronic device A may transmit data A to the first electronic device by controlling the BT module . In operation the first electronic device may receive data A from the second electronic device A . The second electronic device B may detect data B to be output for a signal which is not illustrated in but received from the first electronic device that is data B corresponding to a condition in operation . The second electronic device B may transmit data B to the first electronic device by controlling the BT module . In operation the AP of the first electronic device may receive data B from the second electronic device B . In operation the AP of the first electronic device may determine priorities of data received from the second electronic device A and the second electronic device B . In operation the process of determining the priority may include a simple comparison between data A and data B. Further the process of determining the priority may include a process of comparing states of the second electronic device having transmitted data and selecting data transmitted by an optimal second electronic device.

When the AP of the first electronic device determines that data A has a higher priority the first electronic device may transmit a signal performing an operation on a signal to the second electronic device A . In operation the second electronic device A may perform the operation for data A. When the AP of the first electronic device determines that data A has a higher priority the first electronic device may transmit a signal performing an operation on a signal to the second electronic device B in operation . In operation the second electronic device B may perform the operation for data B.

Table 2 shows weighted values for determining the second electronic devices to I O data according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Table 3 is a table showing weighted values for selecting second electronic devices according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Table 2 above may list sequences to select the second electronic devices based on each I O function. Table 3 shows weighted values defined with Table 2. The weighted values in Table 3 may be changed by the user. The AP of the first electronic device may store the above tables in the cloud. The cloud may refer to an external service not internal storage space and the electronic device connected to a server may download or upload various types of information. The AP of the first electronic device may transmit a signal by controlling the BT module to output data to the second electronic device which is automatically determined according to Table 3 based on I O functions.

The first electronic device and a plurality of second electronic devices may be connected through BT communication. The AP of the first electronic device may identify Tables 2 and 3 through the cloud. An operation for determining the second electronic device may be performed by the cloud or the AP of the first electronic device . Based on the weighted values of Table 3 a predetermined value is assigned to each state. Values from 1 to 5 may be assigned according to the selection sequences of Table 2. As a battery state grows closer to full charge a high value is assigned. A high value may be assigned as 2 a medium value may be assigned as 24 and a low value may be assigned as 6. As the processor load becomes larger a high value is assigned. A high value may be assigned as 0.27 a medium value may be assigned as 0.5 and a low value may be assigned as 0.25. As a user preference grows 1 is assigned. Values from 1 to 3 may be assigned. As the influence of the context becomes stronger a high value is assigned. A high value may be assigned as 3 a medium value may be assigned as 2 and a low value may be assigned as 1. The assigned values may be changed by the user.

For example the AP of the first electronic device may select the second electronic device to output a time function. The second electronic device may be determined according to the weighted value of Table 3. According to Table 2 the second electronic device to be selected first to output time is a smart watch. Further when a battery state of a smart watch is medium a load degree of a processor is medium user preference is low and context is low the following equation may be determined 0.3 1 0.4 24 0.2 0.5 0.05 3 0.05 1 3.48 Equation 1

Under the same conditions for outputting a time function an equation to select a ring may be expressed below 0.3 3 0.4 24 0.2 0.5 0.05 3 0.05 1 4.08 Equation 2

When the first electronic device or a cloud determines the second electronic device by using a weighted value the second electronic device having a small calculated value is selected.

A method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include determining among the plurality of external electronic devices at least one external electronic device connected with the electronic device transmitting signals to the at least one external electronic device receiving data corresponding to the signals from the at least one external electronic device selecting one of the at least one external electronic device based on the received data and transmitting an operation execution signal for the data to the selected external electronic device.

A method of selecting an external electronic device connected with an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include receiving a signal from the electronic device transmitting data corresponding to the signal to the electronic device receiving an operation execution signal for the data from the electronic device and performing at least one of various operations according to the operation execution signal.

Examples of non transitory computer readable media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as Compact Disc ROM CD ROM disks and DVDs magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions e.g. programming modules such as ROM RAM flash memory etc. Examples of program instructions include machine code instructions created by assembly languages such as a compiler and code instructions created by a high level programming language executable in computers using an interpreter etc. The described hardware devices may be configured to act as one or more software modules including program instructions that cause a computer or processor to perform the operations and methods described above or vice versa. The one or more software modules may be stored on the non transitory computer readable media.

Modules or programming modules according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include one or more components remove part of them described above or include new components. The operations performed by modules programming modules or the other components according to the present disclosure may be executed in serial parallel repetitive or heuristic fashion. Part of the operations can be executed in any other order skipped or executed with additional operations.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

