---

title: Vehicle seat haptic indication of future planned driving maneuvers
abstract: Arrangements related to the operation of an autonomous vehicle are described. The autonomous vehicle includes a vehicle seat. It can be determined whether a future planned driving maneuver of the autonomous vehicle includes a change in a current motion of the autonomous vehicle. Responsive to determining that the future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the autonomous vehicle, the vehicle seat can be caused to provide a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver prior to implementing the future planned driving maneuver. In this way, a vehicle seat occupant can be alerted to the future planned driving maneuver. The haptic indication can include a movement of the vehicle seat. In one or more arrangements, the movement of the vehicle seat can correspond to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573522&OS=09573522&RS=09573522
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09573522
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150429
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicles having an autonomous operational mode and more particularly to future planned driving maneuvers of such vehicles.

Some vehicles may include an operational mode in which a computing system is used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. Such vehicles include sensors that are configured to detect information about the surrounding environment including the presence of objects in the environment. The computing systems are configured to process the detected information to determine how to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle through the surrounding environment. Vehicle occupant acceptance and comfort with the autonomous operation of the vehicle is dependent upon trusting that the system is aware of the situation and will respond properly.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of operating an autonomous vehicle. The autonomous vehicle can include a vehicle seat. The method can include determining whether a future planned driving maneuver of the autonomous vehicle includes a change in a current motion of the autonomous vehicle. The method can also include responsive to determining that the future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the autonomous vehicle causing the vehicle seat to provide a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver prior to implementing the future planned driving maneuver. Thus a vehicle seat occupant can be alerted to the future planned driving maneuver.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for an autonomous vehicle. The system includes a vehicle seat. The system also includes a processor operatively connected to the vehicle seat. The processor can be programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include determining whether a future planned driving maneuver of the autonomous vehicle includes a change in a current motion of the autonomous vehicle. The executable operations can also include responsive to determining that the future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the autonomous vehicle causing the vehicle seat to provide a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver prior to implementing the future planned driving maneuver.

In yet another respect the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product for operating an autonomous vehicle which includes a vehicle seat. The computer program product can include a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therein. The program code can be executable by a processor to perform a method. The method can include determining whether a future planned driving maneuver of the autonomous vehicle includes a change in a current motion of the autonomous vehicle. The method can include responsive to determining that the future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the autonomous vehicle causing the vehicle seat to provide a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver prior to implementing the future planned driving maneuver. Thus a vehicle seat occupant can be alerted to the future planned driving maneuver.

This detailed description relates to the operation of an autonomous vehicle. More particularly this detailed description relates to the operation of an autonomous vehicle when a future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the autonomous vehicle. In response to determining that the future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the vehicle a vehicle seat in the autonomous vehicle can be used to provide a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver. The haptic indication can be provided prior to implementing the future planned driving maneuver. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can among other things improve occupant confidence in the autonomous operation of the vehicle.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example a vehicle is shown. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In one or more implementations the vehicle may be a watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

The vehicle can have a front end and a back end . The vehicle can have a left lateral side and a right lateral side . The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal axis which can be the central axis of the vehicle . The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal direction . Longitudinal direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or substantially co linear with the longitudinal axis . As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus the term substantially parallel means exactly parallel and slight variations therefrom e.g. within normal manufacturing tolerances within about 10 degrees or less within about 5 degrees or less within about 3 degrees or less etc. . The vehicle can have an associated lateral axis . The lateral axis can be substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis . The vehicle can have an associated lateral direction . Lateral direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or substantially co linear with the lateral axis .

According to arrangements herein the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. As used herein autonomous vehicle means a vehicle that configured to operate in an autonomous mode. Autonomous mode means that one or more computing systems are used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be highly automated.

In some instances the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed. Manual mode means that a majority of the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle along a travel route is performed by a human driver. The manual mode can include vehicles in which some of the vehicle systems operations and or functions that are automated. As an example a vehicle that is operated manually but includes cruise control or adaptive cruise control systems can be considered to be in the manual mode.

The vehicle can include various elements some of which may be a part of an autonomous driving system. Some of the possible elements of the vehicle are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the vehicle to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The vehicle can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the vehicle can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements vehicle may not include one or more of the elements shown in . Further while the various elements are shown as being located within the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to the vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The vehicle can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other. In one or more arrangements the processor can be a main processor of the vehicle . For instance the processor can be an engine control unit ECU .

The vehicle can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be a component of the processor or the data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The vehicle can include an autonomous driving module . The autonomous driving module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein including for example determining current driving maneuvers for the vehicle future driving maneuvers for the vehicle and or modifications to a current driving maneuver of the vehicle . The autonomous driving module can also cause directly or indirectly such driving maneuvers or modifications thereto to be implemented. The autonomous driving module can be a component of the processor or the autonomous driving module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The autonomous driving module can be a component of the processor or the autonomous driving module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected. The autonomous driving module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions and or to transmit data to receive data from interact with and or control the vehicle or one or more systems thereof e.g. one or more of vehicle systems . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

The vehicle can include a sensor system . The sensor system can include one or more sensors. Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense something. The one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense in real time. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a user or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process.

In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other. Alternatively two or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the autonomous driving module and or other element of the vehicle .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the external environment in which the vehicle is located including information about objects in the external environment. Such objects may be stationary object or moving objects. Alternatively or in addition to one or more of the above examples the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense the location of the vehicle and or the location of objects in the environment relative to the vehicle . Various examples of these and other types of sensors will be described herein. It will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense position and orientation changes of the vehicle such as for example based on inertial acceleration. In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include accelerometers gyroscopes and or other suitable sensors. The sensor system can include sensors that can monitor one or more internal systems of the vehicle e.g. an Omonitor a fuel gauge an engine oil temperature coolant temperature etc. .

The sensor system can include one or more environment sensors. The environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense objects in at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle and or information data about such objects. The one or more environment sensors can be provided in any suitable location of the vehicle. Various examples of the environment sensors will be described herein. However it will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part radio signals e.g. RADAR based sensors . The one or more radio based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part lasers. For instance one or more of the environment sensors can be or included as part of a laser rangefinder or a LIDAR. Such devices can include a laser source and or laser scanner configured to emit a laser and a detector configured to detect reflections of the laser. The laser rangefinder or LIDAR may be configured to operate in a coherent or an incoherent detection mode. The one or more laser based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part ultrasound. Such sensors can include an ultrasound source configured to emit ultrasonic signals and a detector configured to detect reflections of the ultrasonic signal. The one or more ultrasound based environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object. Such detecting can be based on a characteristic e.g. the intensity of a reflected ultrasonic signal.

In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include a camera system. The camera system can include a one or more cameras. Camera is defined as any device component and or system that can capture visual data. Visual data includes video and or image information data. The visual data can be in any suitable form.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras can include a lens not shown and an image capture element not shown . The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a linear array sensor a CCD monochrome . The image capture element may capture images in any suitable wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. The image capture element may capture color images and or grayscale images. One or more of the cameras can be configured with zoom in and or zoom out capabilities.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras can be oriented positioned configured operable and or arranged to capture visual data from at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle . The one or more cameras can be located in any suitable portion of the vehicle . For instance one or more of the cameras can be located within the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on the exterior of the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on or exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The position of one or more of the cameras can be fixed such that its position does not change relative to the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be movable so that its position can change to allow visual data from different portions of the external environment of the vehicle to be captured. The one or more cameras and or the movement of the one or more cameras can be controlled by the sensor system the processor the autonomous driving module and or other module s .

Alternatively or in addition to any of the sensors described above the sensor system can include other types of sensors. The sensor system the processor the autonomous driving module and or other module s can be operable to control movements of one or more of the sensors of the sensor system . It should be noted that any of the sensors described herein can be provided in any suitable location with respect to the vehicle . For instance one or more sensors can be located within the vehicle one or more sensors can be located on the exterior of the vehicle and or one or more sensors can be located so as to be exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor the autonomous driving module and or other module s can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more aspects characteristics and or properties of a detected object. For example the sensor system the processor the autonomous driving module and or other module s can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the size relative size length width height a dimension the material a material property the speed the acceleration and or the trajectory of a detected object.

The vehicle can include an input system . An input system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be entered into a machine. The input system can receive an input from a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver or a passenger . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The vehicle can include an output system . An output system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be presented to a vehicle occupant e.g. a person a vehicle occupant etc. . The output system can present information data to a vehicle occupant. The output system can include a display as described above. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include a microphone earphone and or speaker. Some components of the vehicle may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system .

The vehicle can include a haptic indication module . The haptic indication module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein including for example determining one or more appropriate haptic indicators to provide based on future planned driving maneuvers of the vehicle . Such haptic indicators can include one or more vehicle seat movements as will be described herein. The one or more vehicle seat movements can correspond to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience while the vehicle is performing at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver. Alternatively or in addition the one or more vehicle seat movements can compensate for a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience while the vehicle is performing at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver.

The haptic indication module can also cause directly or indirectly such haptic indicators e.g. movement of one or more vehicle seats to be implemented. The haptic indication module can be a component of the processor or the haptic indication module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The haptic indication module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions. Alternatively or in addition such instructions can include instructions to control one or more vehicle seats of the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle seats . is a partially diagrammatic view of an interior portion of the vehicle . The vehicle seats can be operatively connected to the vehicle in any suitable manner. In one or more arrangements such as is shown in the vehicle can include a plurality of vehicle seats . For instance the vehicle can include a driver seat and a plurality of passenger seats . However it will be understood that the arrangement shown in is merely an example and the subject matter described herein is not limited to any particular arrangement and or quantity of vehicle seats .

The one or more vehicle seats can have any suitable form. For instance the one or more vehicle seats can include at least a seat portion . In one or more arrangements the one or more vehicle seats can also include a back portion . For instance one or more user control elements can be provided to enable a user to selectively change the position of the seat portion and or the back portion . The vehicle seat can include one or more arm rests and or a headrest .

For instance one or more of the vehicle seats can be configured to be movable in a plurality of directions and or in a plurality of different manner. For instance one or more of the vehicle seats can be configured for pivoting tilting sliding rotational linear curvilinear rectilinear reciprocal random oscillation and or twisting motions or any combinations thereof. One or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof can be configured to move in three dimensions.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof e.g. the seat portion the back portion the arm rest the headrest can be configured to move forward and or rearward in the longitudinal direction . Any suitable range of motion can be provided in the longitudinal direction . In one or more arrangements one or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof can be configured to tilt forward and or rearward generally in the longitudinal direction .

Alternatively or in addition one or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof can be configured to move left and or right in the lateral direction . Any suitable range of motion can be provided in the lateral direction . In one or more arrangements one or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof can be configured to tilt left and or right generally in the lateral direction .

In one or more arrangements one or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof can be configured to move in a substantially vertical direction e.g. a direction that is substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal direction and to the lateral direction . Any suitable range of motion can be provided in the substantially vertical direction. In one or more arrangements one or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof can be configured to move rectilinearly upward and or downward generally in the substantially vertical direction.

In one or more arrangements a portion of one or more vehicle seats can be movable. For instance the seat portion and or the back portion of one or more vehicle seats can be movable. The seat portion and or the back portion can be movable with respect to each other. For instance the back portion can be pivotable relative to the seat portion . Thus the back portion can have an upright position and one or more reclined positions. Alternatively or in addition the seat portion can be pivotable relative to the back portion .

One or more of the vehicle seats can have any combination of the above motions and or other motions. One or more of the vehicle seats can have any suitable range of motion. In one or more arrangements one or more of the vehicle seats or a portion thereof can have a generally semi spherical range of motion.

In one or more arrangements one or more portions of at least one of the vehicle seats can be configured to vibrate to provide a haptic indication. To that end there can be one or more vibration energy elements not shown associated with the vehicle seat . The one or more vibration energy elements can be selectively activated to provide a haptic indication to an occupant of the vehicle seat .

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle seat actuators . The one or more vehicle seat actuators can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle seats . The vehicle seat actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle seats portions thereof and or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor and or the haptic indication module . The processor and or the haptic indication module can be operatively connected to the vehicle seat actuators . Any suitable actuator can be used. For instance the one or more vehicle seat actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

In one or more arrangements only one of the vehicle seats such as the driver s seat may be configured to provide a haptic indication. In one or more arrangements a plurality of the vehicle seats may be configured to provide a haptic indication. In such case the plurality of vehicle seats can be configured to provide the same haptic indication. Alternatively the plurality of vehicle seats can be configured to provide different haptic indications. The plurality of vehicle seats can be controlled individually or collectively to provide the haptic indications.

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle systems . Various examples of the one or more vehicle systems are shown in . However the vehicle can include more fewer or different systems. It should be appreciated that although particular vehicle systems are separately defined each or any of the systems or portions thereof may be otherwise combined or segregated via hardware and or software within the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a propulsion system . The propulsion system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide powered motion for the vehicle . The propulsion system can include an engine and an energy source.

The engine can be any suitable type of engine or motor now known or later developed. For instance the engine can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor a steam engine and or a Stirling engine just to name a few possibilities. In some embodiments the propulsion system could include a plurality of engine types. For instance a gas electric hybrid vehicle can include a gasoline engine and an electric motor.

The energy source can be any suitable source of energy that can be used to at least partially power the engine. The engine can be configured to convert the energy source into mechanical energy. Examples of energy sources include gasoline diesel propane hydrogen other compressed gas based fuels ethanol solar panels batteries and or other sources of electrical power. Alternatively or in addition the energy source can include fuel tanks batteries capacitors and or flywheels. In some embodiments the energy source can be used to provide energy for other systems of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include wheels tires and or tracks. Any suitable type of wheels tires and or tracks can be used. In one or more arrangements the wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle can be configured to rotate differentially with respect to other wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle . The wheels tires and or tracks can be made of any suitable material.

The vehicle can include a braking system . The braking system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to decelerate the vehicle . As an example the braking system can use friction to slow the wheels tires. The braking system can convert the kinetic energy of the wheels tires to electric current.

Further the vehicle can include a steering system . The steering system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to adjust the heading of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a throttle system . The throttle system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to control the operating speed of an engine motor of the vehicle and in turn the speed of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a transmission system . The transmission system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to transmit mechanical power from the engine motor of the vehicle to the wheels tires. For instance the transmission system can include a gearbox clutch differential drive shafts and or other elements. In arrangements where the transmission system includes drive shafts the drive shafts can include one or more axles that are configured to be coupled to the wheels tires.

The vehicle can include a signaling system . The signaling system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide illumination for the driver of the vehicle and or to provide information with respect to one or more aspects of the vehicle . For instance the signaling system can provide information regarding the vehicle s presence position size direction of travel and or the driver s intentions regarding direction and speed of travel. For instance the signaling system can include headlights taillights brake lights hazard lights and turn signal lights.

The vehicle can include a navigation system . The navigation system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine the geographic location of the vehicle and or to determine a travel route for the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more mapping applications to determine a travel route for the vehicle . For instance a driver or passenger may input an origin and a destination. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation system can be configured to update the travel route dynamically while the vehicle is in operation.

The navigation system can include a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the navigation system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The navigation system may include a transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example navigation system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The navigation system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle .

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to communicate with the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof. For example returning to the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be in communication to send and or receive information from the various vehicle systems to control the movement speed maneuvering heading direction etc. of vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module may control some or all of these vehicle systems and thus may be partially or fully autonomous.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module may be operable to control the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle by controlling one or more of the vehicle systems and or components thereof. For instance when operating in an autonomous mode the processor and or the autonomous driving module can control the direction and or speed of the vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to accelerate e.g. by increasing the supply of fuel provided to the engine decelerate e.g. by decreasing the supply of fuel to the engine and or by applying brakes and or change direction e.g. by turning the front two wheels . As used herein cause or causing means to make force compel direct command instruct and or enable an event or action to occur or at least be in a state where such event or action may occur either in a direct or indirect manner.

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle system actuators . The vehicle system actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle systems or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor and or the autonomous driving module . Any suitable actuator can be used. For instance the one or more vehicle system actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

According to arrangements described herein the vehicle can be configured to alert one or more vehicle occupants of future planned driving maneuvers. According to arrangements herein the vehicle or one or more elements thereof can be configured to determine a future planned driving maneuver. The vehicle can further determine whether a determined future planned driving maneuver of the vehicle includes a change in a current motion of the vehicle. Change in a current motion of the vehicle means a substantial change in the direction of motion of the vehicle and or a substantial change in the speed of the vehicle.

In the way of non limiting examples a substantial change in the speed of the vehicle can occur when the vehicle accelerates or decelerates. As a further example a substantial change in the speed of the vehicle can occur when the speed of the vehicle increases and or decreases more than a predetermined amount e.g. about 5 miles per hour mph or more about 10 mph or more about 15 mph or more about 20 mph or more etc. over a current speed of the vehicle . As a further example a substantial change in the speed of the vehicle can occur when the speed of the vehicle increases or decreases more than a predetermined percentage e.g. about a 5 change or more about a 10 change or more about a 15 change or more about a 20 change or more etc. over a current speed of the vehicle . In the way of further non limiting examples a substantial change in the direction of motion of the vehicle can occur when the vehicle turns to the right and or turns to the left. As further examples a substantial change in the direction of motion of the vehicle can occur when the vehicle turns or moves in a direction that is more than a predetermined angle e.g. about 10 degrees or more about 20 degrees or more about 30 degrees or more about 40 degrees or more about 45 degrees or more about 50 degrees or more about 60 degrees or more about 70 degrees or more about 80 degrees or more about 90 degrees or more etc. relative to the current direction of travel. As further examples a substantial change in the direction of motion of the vehicle can occur when the vehicle changes travel lanes.

In one or more arrangements an action can be taken in response to determining that the future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the vehicle. For instance the action can be alerting a vehicle occupant of the future planned driving maneuver. More particularly the action can be causing one or more vehicle seats to provide a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver. Haptic indication means any information notification alert and or warning that is conveyed in a way that can be perceived by the human sense of touch. The haptic indication can be provided at any suitable time. For instance the haptic indication can be provided prior to the vehicle implementing the future planned driving maneuver. As another example the haptic indication can be provided prior to a change in the current motion of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the haptic indication can be provided at a predetermined period of time prior to implementing the future planned driving maneuver.

In this way a vehicle seat occupant can be made aware of the future planned driving maneuver of the vehicle . These and other examples of possible actions will be described in greater detail throughout this description. In one or more arrangements the processor the autonomous driving module the haptic indication module and or other element s can be configured to cause a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver to be provided.

Now that the various potential systems devices elements and or components of the vehicle have been described various methods for operating the vehicle will now be described. Referring now to an example of a method of operating a vehicle to alert a vehicle occupant of future planned driving maneuvers is shown. Various possible steps of the method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block it can be determined whether a future planned driving maneuver of the vehicle includes a change in a current motion of the vehicle . Such a determination can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . For instance in one or more arrangements the determining can be performed by the processor the autonomous driving module and or one or more other modules. In some arrangements the determination can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval. In one or more arrangements the determination can be performed when a future planned driving maneuver is determined or at any other suitable point of time. The method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that the future planned driving maneuver includes a change in the current motion of the vehicle one or more vehicle seats of the vehicle can be caused to provide a haptic indication of the future planned driving maneuver. The haptic indication can be provided prior to the future planned driving maneuver being implemented or prior to being caused to be implemented. The haptic indication can be implemented by one or more elements of the vehicle . For instance the haptic indication can be implemented by at least the processor the autonomous driving module and or the haptic indication module .

Any suitable haptic indication can be provided. As an example the haptic indication can be provided by one or more vehicle seats . For instance in one or more arrangements the haptic indication can be movement of one or more vehicle seats . In such case the haptic indication can be implemented by at least the processor the autonomous driving module the haptic indication module the vehicle seat and or the vehicle seat actuators . When the vehicle seat is moved to provide the haptic indication the vehicle seat can remain in the moved position. Alternatively when the vehicle seat is moved to provide the haptic indication the vehicle seat can return to substantially the same position it was in before being moved. Such a return can occur immediately or after any suitable period of time. In one or more arrangements the vehicle seat can be returned prior to implementing the future planned driving maneuver and or prior to a change in motion of the vehicle.

The haptic indication can be have any suitable duration. The haptic indication can be provided any suitable number of times. For instance the haptic indication can be provided a single time. In one or more arrangements the haptic indication can be provided a plurality of times. In such case the haptic indication can be performed periodically irregularly or even randomly.

In one or more arrangements when the haptic indication is movement of one or more vehicle seats the movement of the vehicle seat can correspond to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver. Correspond to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver means that the vehicle seat is moved in such that the vehicle seat occupant will experience a sensation that is similar or identical to the sensation that the vehicle seat occupant will experience at least at some point when the vehicle actually performs the future planned driving maneuver.

Various non limiting examples of moving the vehicle seat in a way that corresponds to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver will now be described. For instance when the future planned driving maneuver is acceleration a vehicle seat occupant may actually be or may feel like he or she is being pushed moved and or forced backward in the longitudinal direction due to the associated forces acting upon the vehicle and or the vehicle seat occupant. Accordingly in such case the movement of the vehicle seat that corresponds to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver can include moving the vehicle seat rearward in the longitudinal direction . That is the vehicle seat can be moved rearward toward the back end of the vehicle . Such movement can include tilting the vehicle seat tilting the seat portion tilting the back portion tilting the headrest and or tilting one or more arm rests rearward in the longitudinal direction . Alternatively or in addition such movement can include rectilinear movement of the vehicle seat or a portion thereof rearward in the longitudinal direction .

As another example when the future planned driving maneuver is deceleration a vehicle seat occupant may actually be or may feel like he or she is being pushed moved and or forced forward in the longitudinal direction due to the associated forces acting upon the vehicle and or the vehicle seat occupant. Accordingly in such case the movement of the vehicle seat that corresponds to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver can includes moving the vehicle seat forward in the longitudinal direction. That is the vehicle seat can be moved rearward toward the front end of the vehicle . Such movement can include tilting the vehicle seat tilting the seat portion tilting the back portion tilting the headrest and or tilting one or more arm rests forward in the longitudinal direction . Alternatively or in addition such movement can include rectilinear movement of the vehicle seat or a portion thereof forward in the longitudinal direction .

As a further example when the future planned driving maneuver is a left turn or a left curve a vehicle seat occupant may actually be or may feel like he or she is being pushed moved and or forced at least to the right in the lateral direction due to the associated forces acting upon the vehicle the vehicle seat and or the vehicle seat occupant. Accordingly in such case the movement of the vehicle seat that corresponds to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver can include moving the vehicle seat to the right in the lateral direction . That is the vehicle seat can be moved to the right toward the right lateral side of the vehicle . Such movement can include tilting the vehicle seat tilting the seat portion tilting the back portion tilting the headrest and or tilting one or more arm rests to the right in the lateral direction . Alternatively or in addition such movement can include rectilinear movement of the vehicle seat or a portion thereof to the right in the lateral direction .

As an additional example when the future planned driving maneuver is a right turn or a right curve a vehicle seat occupant may actually be or may feel like he or she is being pushed moved and or forced at least to the left in the lateral direction due to the associated forces acting upon the vehicle and or the vehicle seat occupant. Accordingly in such case the movement of the vehicle seat that corresponds to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver can include moving the vehicle seat to the left in the lateral direction . That is the vehicle seat can be moved to the left toward the left lateral side of the vehicle . Such movement can include tilting the vehicle seat tilting the seat portion tilting the back portion tilting the headrest and or tilting one or more arm rests to the left in the lateral direction . Alternatively or in addition such movement can include rectilinear movement of the vehicle seat or a portion thereof to the left in the lateral direction .

While the above description is directed to arrangements in which the vehicle seat is moved corresponding to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver it will be appreciated that arrangements are not limited to this type of movement. Indeed the vehicle seat can be moved in other ways. For instance the vehicle seat can be moved to compensate for a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver. In this way the vehicle seat occupant may not experience the sensation or the feeling will be reduced.

As a further example the vehicle seat can be moved in substantially the same direction in which the vehicle will move during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver. For instance when the future planned driving maneuver is a left turn or a left curve the movement of the vehicle seat can include moving the vehicle seat to the left in the lateral direction . That is the vehicle seat can be moved left toward the left lateral side of the vehicle . Such movement can include tilting the vehicle seat tilting the seat portion tilting the back portion tilting the headrest and or tilting one or more arm rests to the left in the lateral direction . Alternatively or in addition such movement can include rectilinear movement of the vehicle seat or a portion thereof to the left in the lateral direction . In such ways a vehicle occupant can be apprised of an upcoming left turn or left curve.

As an additional example when the future planned driving maneuver is a right turn or a right curve the movement of the vehicle seat can include moving the vehicle seat to the right in the lateral direction . That is the vehicle seat can be moved right toward the right lateral side of the vehicle . Such movement can include tilting the vehicle seat tilting the seat portion tilting the back portion tilting the headrest and or tilting one or more arm rests to the right in the lateral direction . Alternatively or in addition such movement can include rectilinear movement of the vehicle seat or a portion thereof to the right in the lateral direction . In such ways a vehicle occupant can be apprised of an upcoming right turn or right curve.

After block the method can end. Alternatively the method can return to block . As a further alternative the method can include additional blocks not shown . For instance the vehicle can be caused to implement the future planned driving maneuver. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to implement the future planned driving maneuver. The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to cause the future planned driving maneuver to be implemented. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more vehicle system actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the future planned driving maneuver.

It should be noted that causing the future planned driving maneuver to be implemented can be performed automatically. In one or more arrangements a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver and or other passenger can be prompted to provide permission to implement the future planned driving maneuver. The vehicle occupant can be prompted in any suitable manner. For instance a prompt can be indicated by the movement s of the vehicle seat described above. Alternatively or in addition a prompt can be presented on a display within the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the prompt can be audibly output to the vehicle occupant over one or more audial channels. Other forms of prompting can be used as an alternative or in addition to the above described forms of prompting. Responsive to receiving an input corresponding to a vehicle occupant s approval to implement the future driving maneuver the vehicle can be caused to implement the future planned driving maneuver. Responsive to receiving an input corresponding to a vehicle occupant s disapproval of implementing the future driving maneuver or if a vehicle occupant does not respond to prompting the vehicle may not implement the future planned driving maneuver or may switch the vehicle to a manual mode.

One non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with the method will now be described. The vehicle can be currently traveling in a travel lane of a road. The vehicle can be traveling at a substantially constant speed such as 45 miles per hour. The vehicle can be heading toward an intersection formed by the current road and a traverse road. The intersection can be a four way stop.

The current travel path of the vehicle can include passing through the intersection. However due to the intersection being a four way stop the vehicle must stop before proceeding through the intersection. Accordingly the vehicle can determine a future planned driving maneuver is stopping at the intersection. However from a vehicle occupant s perspective it may not be immediately clear that the vehicle recognizes that there is an upcoming stop that requires the vehicle to stop. Thus the vehicle occupant may become uncomfortable wondering whether the vehicle knows that it must stop.

At a certain point the vehicle must begin to activate the braking system to gradually bring the vehicle to a stop. Accordingly the vehicle can determine that such actions would include a change in a current motion of the vehicle .

The vehicle can provide a haptic indication to one or more vehicle occupants e.g. a driver and or one or more passengers . Because the future planned driving maneuver includes decelerating the haptic indication can be provided to one or more vehicle occupants via a respective vehicle seat . In such case the vehicle seat can be caused to provide a haptic indication such as by moving the vehicle seat . The haptic indication is provided prior to the vehicle implementing the future planned driving maneuver by activating the braking system . Thus by providing such a haptic indication a vehicle occupant can be assured that the vehicle understands that it must come to a stop even if it is not necessary for the vehicle to begin decelerating.

Also if the haptic indication is one that corresponds to a sensation that a vehicle seat occupant will experience during at least a portion of the future planned driving maneuver the vehicle seat occupant can gain an understanding of the future planned driving maneuver of the vehicle based on the movement of the vehicle seat . In this example the vehicle seat can be tilted forward. Based on such movement the vehicle seat occupant would recognize that a future driving action of the vehicle will cause the vehicle to decelerate or stop.

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can increase driver acceptance and comfort levels with autonomous vehicle systems. Arrangements described herein can potentially improve the safe operation of the autonomous vehicle. Arrangements described herein can reduce amount of experienced forces during the vehicle s execution of the future planned driving maneuver. Arrangements described herein can in some instances allow a vehicle occupant to physically prepare for an upcoming change in motion of the vehicle possibly even subconsciously thereby increasing perceived comfort.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

