---

title: Methods and systems for analyzing data related to possible online fraud
abstract: Various embodiments of the invention provide methods, systems and software for analyzing data. In particular embodiments, for example, a set of data about a web site may be analyzed to determine whether the web site is likely to be illegitimate (e.g., to be involved in a fraudulent scheme, such as a phishing scheme, the sale of gray market goods, etc.). In an exemplary embodiment, a set of data may be divided into a plurality of components (each of which, in some cases, may be considered a separate data set). Merely by way of example, a set of data may comprise data gathered from a plurality of data sources, and/or each component may comprise data gathered from one of the plurality of data source. As another example, a set of data may comprise a document with a plurality of sections, and each component may comprise one of the plurality of sections. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the analysis of another component may comprise certain tests and/or evaluations, and that the analysis of another component may comprise different tests and/or evaluations. In other cases, the analysis of each component may comprise similar tests and/or evaluations. The variety of tests and/or evaluations generally will be implementation specific.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356947&OS=09356947&RS=09356947
owner: THOMSON REUTERS GLOBAL RESOURCES
number: 09356947
owner_city: Baar
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20150407
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of Ser. No. 12 263 791 filed Nov. 3 2008 by Shraim et al. and entitled Methods and Systems for Analyzing Data Related to Possible Online Fraud which is a continuation of and claims the benefit of Ser. No. 10 997 626 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Methods and Systems for Analyzing Data Related to Possible Online Fraud now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 457 823 which is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 709 398 filed May 2 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Online Fraud Solution now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 769 671 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. This application also claims the benefit of the following provisional applications the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 615 973 filed Oct. 4 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Online Fraud Solution U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 610 716 filed Sep. 17 2004 by Shull and entitled Methods and Systems for Preventing Online Fraud and U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 610 715 filed Sep. 17 2004 by Shull and entitled Customer Based Detection of Online Fraud. 

This application is also related to the following commonly owned applications each of which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 991 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Online Fraud Solution U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 646 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Enhanced Responses to Online Fraud U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 990 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Customer Based Detection of Online Fraud U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 566 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Early Detection and Monitoring of Online Fraud now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 870 608 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 567 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Enhanced Responses to Online Fraud now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 992 204 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 568 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Generating Phish Messages now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 041 769 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 993 filed Nov. 23 2004 by Shraim et al. and entitled Advanced Responses to Online Fraud now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 913 302 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 680 898 filed Apr. 7 2015 by Shraim et al. and entitled Online Fraud Solution .

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates computer systems and more particularly to systems methods and software for defecting preventing responding to and or otherwise dealing with online fraud.

Electronic mail email has become a staple of modern communications. Unfortunately however anyone who uses email on a regular basis is familiar with the vast quantities of spam unsolicited email sent to nearly every email addressee from various advertisers. Although somewhat analogous to traditional paper junk mail spam is unique in that for virtually no cost a purveyor of spam spammer can easily and quickly generate and transmit copious amounts of spam. Further limitations in the Internet standard simple mail transport protocol SMTP allow spammers to transmit spam with relative anonymity and therefore with correspondingly little accountability. Consequently even though spam annoys the vast majority of recipients and thus generates few successful sales opportunities for the spammer relative to the amount of spam transmitted the spam industry is burgeoning Given their ability to inexpensively and quickly transmit enormous quantities of spam spammers can make a handsome profit even from the relatively low response rate to the spam advertising.

By their nature spammers continually search for new recipients victims to which to send spam. The spam industry therefore has launched a derivative industry of harvesters who scour the Internet and other sources to generate lists of valid email addresses which they then sell to the spammers. Obviously since these activities go hand in hand many spammers act as harvesters for themselves or their fellow spammers . Harvesters use a variety of techniques for obtaining email address lists and often develop automated search programs commonly referred to as robots or webcrawlers that continually skulk about the Internet searching for new entail addresses. For example harvesters obtain email addresses from Internet and other news groups chat rooms and directory service e.g. white pages sites as well as message boards mailing lists and web pages on which users commonly provide email addresses for feedback etc.

The success of spam as a marketing technique has begun to result in the use of spam to perpetrate phishing operations. A phishing operation can be defined as any type of social engineering attack typically relying the illegitimate use of a brand name to induce a consumer to take an action that he she otherwise would not take. Phishing seams can operate by bribery flattery deceit cajoling and through other methods. Phishing operations often involve mass contact of consumers for example by spam email messages text messages VoIP calls instant messages etc. as well as through other devices and generally direct contacted consumers to a response site which often is a web site but can also be a telephone number etc.

One fairly common example of a phishing scam is a spam email message advertising a well known software application or package which in fact was pirated or otherwise obtained illegitimately at a greatly reduced price and directing respondents to a web site where the software can be purchased. Upon visiting the site consumers would or should know that the advertised price is grossly unrealistic and probably indicates some time of illegitimacy such as black or gray market goods. Some consumers however either out of ignorance or willful blindness will accept the phisher s assurances that the software is legitimate and therefore will purchase the illegitimate software completing the phishing scam.

Another common phishing operation is known as spoofing scam. This practice involves inserting a false email address in the From or Reply to headers of an email message thereby misleading the recipient into believing that the email originated from a relatively trusted source. Spoofed emails often appear to be from well known Internet service providers ISPs such as for example America Online and The Microsoft Network or other high profile entities with easily identifiable email addresses including for example IBM Microsoft General Motors and E Bay as well as various financial institutions online retailers and the like . This spoofing is unacceptable to these entities for many reasons not the least because it causes customer confusion destroys the value of a well cultivated online presence creates general mistrust of the spoofed brands and largely dilutes the value of a reputable entity s online communications and transactions.

Further in many cases spammers and or spoofers have developed avenues of disseminating information amongst their industry including a variety of online fora such as message boards chat rooms newsgroups and the like. At such locations spammers often discuss strategies for more effective spamming spoofing new spoof sites etc. as well as trade and or advertise lists of harvested addresses. By using these resources spammers and or spoolers can focus on the most effective spamming spoofing techniques learn from and or copy the spoofed web sites of others and the like. Such resources also allow a new spammer or spooler to quickly pick up effective spamming and or spoofing techniques.

Perhaps most alarmingly spam and spoofed spam in particular has increasingly been used to promote fraudulent activity such as phishing attacks including identity theft unauthorized credit card transactions and or account withdrawals and the like. This technique involves masquerading as a trusted business in order to induce an unsuspecting consumer to provide confidential personal information often in response to a purported request to update account information confirm an online transaction etc. Merely by way of example a spooler may send a spoof email purporting to be from the recipient s bank and requesting ironically that the recipient confirm her identity by providing confidential information by reply ennui or by logging on to a fraudulent web site. Similarly a common spoofed message requests that the recipient log on to a well known e commerce site and update credit card information stored by that site.

Spam messages and in particular those that are part of a phishing scheme often include a uniform resource locator URL linking to the web site of the phisher. The web site may for example be a response point for the sale of illegitimate goods. In other cases the URL may be configured to appear to be associated with the web site of a spoofed sender but may actually redirects the recipient to a spoofed web site i.e. a web site that imitates or is designed to look like the web site of the spoofed source of the email . Upon visiting the spoofed web site the recipient may be presented with a form that requests information such as the recipient s address phone number social security number bank account number credit card number mother s maiden name etc. The recipient believing that she is communicating with a trusted company may provide some or all of this information which then is at the spammer s disposal to use for any of a variety of illegitimate purposes. In some cases the link may be configured to present a legitimate web site with an illegitimate and or spoofed popup window presented over the legitimate web site with instructions to provide personal information etc. which will be collected by the phisher 

Thus phishing scams and other illegitimate online activities have flourished. While such activity is indisputably both illegal and immoral the relative anonymity of the phishers as well as the international nature of the Internet hinders effective legal prosecution for these activities. Merely by way of example the server associated with a fraudulent web site may be located in a country from which prosecution extradition is highly unlikely. Moreover these fraudulent web sites are often highly transient existing on a given server or ISP for a short time perhaps only a matter of days or even hours before the phisher moves on to a new server or ISP. Compounding the enforcement problem is the fact that many of the servers hosting fraudulent web sites are legitimate servers that have been compromised or hacked by the phisher or his associates with the owner operator of the server having no idea that the server is secretly being used for illegitimate purposes.

Various embodiments of the invention provide methods systems and software for analyzing data. In particular embodiments for example a set of data about a web site may be analyzed to determine whether the web site is likely to be illegitimate e.g. to be involved in a fraudulent scheme such as a phishing scheme the sale of gray market goods etc. . In an exemplary embodiment a set of data may be divided Into a plurality of components each of which in some cases may be considered a separate data set . Merely by way of example a set of data may comprise data gathered from a plurality of data sources and or each component may comprise data gathered from one of the plurality of data sources. As another example a set of data may comprise a document with a plurality of sections and each component may comprise one of the plurality of sections. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the analysis of a particular component may comprise certain tests and or evaluations and that the analysis of another component may comprise different tests and or evaluations. In other cases the analysis of each component may comprise similar tests and or evaluations. The variety of tests and or evaluations generally will be implementation specific.

One set of embodiments provides methods of which some or all portions may be performed by a computer. Merely by way of example some embodiments provide methods for analyzing data. An exemplary embedment provides a method of categorizing a web site as a possibly fraudulent web site. The method can comprise a computer accessing a set of data related to the web site. Examples of data sets can include without limitation an email message related to the web site e.g. an email message comprising a URL referencing the web site an email message discussing the web site etc. a set of data about a domain associated with the web site a set of data about a server hosting the web site and or a set of data about a URL referencing the web site a newsgroup posting a web page a transcript from an Internet chat session etc. Depending on the type of the data set accessing the set of data can include a variety of procedures such as receiving an email message interrogating a server accessing a domain registration zone file etc.

The exemplary method can further comprise dividing the set of data into a plurality of components and or analyzing at least some of the plurality of components. In particular embodiments a score may be assigned to each of the plurality of components based perhaps on the analysis of each of the analyzed components. Hence a plurality of scores may be assigned. Then in certain embodiments a composite score which may be based on one some or all of the plurality of scores may be assigned to the set of data. The web site then may be categorized. In some cases the categorization of the web site may be based on one or more of the plurality of scores. In other cases the categorization may be based on a composite score which may be assigned as described above.

Other embodiments provide methods of analyzing an email message. An exemplary embodiment comprises a computer dividing the email message into a plurality of components. The computer may analyze at least one of the plurality of components and perhaps based on the analysis of the at least one of the plurality of components assign a score to the at least one of the plurality of components. Based perhaps on the score the email message may be categorized.

In accordance with some embodiments the computer may analyze each of the plurality of components. For each of the plurality of components the computer may assign a score to the component. A composite score may be assigned to the email message based on the scores assigned to each of the plurality of the components. In such cases categorizing the email message may comprise categorizing the email message based on the composite score. The exemplary method may be used to categorize an email message as being involved in a phishing scam and or other online fraud as improperly using a trademark etc.

In particular embodiments the email message may comprise a header portion a body portion and or a URL of which each may be considered a component of the email message in some cases . Hence the header portion may be analyzed and or a score assigned thereto the body portion may be analyzed and or a score assigned thereto and or the URL may be analyzed and or a score assigned thereto. In some cases the scoring may be progressive in nature in that for example the body portion is analyzed only if the score of the header portion exceeds a certain threshold similarly the URL might be analyzed only if the respective scores of the header portion and or the body portion and or a combined score based on the score tor the header portion and the score for the body portion exceeds a certain threshold score. A composite score may be assigned to the email message e.g. based on the scores for the header portion body portion and or URL and or the email message may be categorized based on the composite score.

Further embodiments may provide methods of categorizing a web site. Merely by way of example one such method can comprise performing a plurality of tests on a web site assigning a score based on each of the tests assigning a composite score based on the scores for each of the plurality of tests and or categorizing the web site based perhaps on the composite score . The tests may relate to a variety of factors. Merely by way of example one or more of the tests may relate to a URL referencing the web site the content of the web site a web page of the web site etc.

An exemplary method of analyzing a URL which can be used to perform tests on a URL referencing a web site as mentioned above can comprise identifying a uniform resource locator URL referencing a web site. The method may further comprise verifying that the web site referenced by the URL is active analyzing information about a domain referenced by the URL and or analyzing the format of the URL. Based on a result of one of more of these verifications and analyses the web site referenced by the URL may be categorized as a possibly fraudulent web site. Analyzing information about a domain referenced by the URL may comprise analyzing a web site associated with the URL and or a server hosting such a web site including without limitation any of the analyses described herein . Analyzing the format of the URL can comprise evaluating a directory path of the URL evaluating an encoding format of the URL etc. The method may further comprise determining a geographical location of a server hosting the web site referenced by the URL.

In some cases a scoring system may be implemented. Merely by way of example a first score may be assigned based on a result of the verification that the web site is active a second score may be assigned based on an analysis of a domain referenced by the URL and or assigning a third score based on the analysis of the format of the URL. A composite score may be assigned based on one or more of these scores and or the web site referenced by the URL may be categorized based on any of these scores and or based on the composite score.

Another method for categorizing a web site as a possibly fraudulent web site can comprise analyzing a uniform resource locator URL referencing the web site. This analysis may comprise without limitation any or all of the procedures described above. The method can further include analyzing a server hosting the web site. If the web site comprises a web page the method can further comprise analyzing the web page. Based on the analysis of the URL referencing the web site the analysts of the server hosting the web site and or the analysis of the web page the web site may be categorized as a possibly fraudulent web site.

Analyzing a web page may comprise one or more of the following procedures downloading the web page analyzing the web page to determine whether the web page implements an online form analyzing an online form incorporated in the web page e.g. to determine whether the online form requests personal information from a user analyzing the web page for errors in spelling or grammar analyzing a uniform resource locator URL incorporated in the web page to determine whether the identified URL references resources external to the web site and comparing a representation of the web page with a stored representation of a web page.

Yet another set of embodiments provides methods for analyzing a domain. An exemplary method which may be used to categorize a domain as a possibly illegitimate domain comprises accessing a domain registration record e.g. a record in a zone file associated with the domain. The method may further comprise performing a plurality of tests with respect to the domain and or a web site hosted by a server associated with the domain including without limitation the tests described above . For each of the plurality of tests a score may be assigned to the domain and or a composite score may be assigned to the domain perhaps based on the scorns for each of the plurality of tests. Based perhaps on a composite score the domain may be categorized as a possibly illegitimate domain.

A variety of tests may be performed. Merely by way of example in on test a web site associated with the domain may be identified an IP address associated with the web site may be identified an IP block associated with the domain may be identified and or the IP block may be compared with the IP address. Another test may comprise evaluating an owner of the domain and or comparing an owner of the domain with an owner of a trademark similar to a name of the domain. In other examples a set of WHOIS and or DNS information may be evaluated. In some cases one or more tests including without limitation the tests described above may be performed on a server hosting a web site associated with the domain.

Other sets of embodiments provide systems and or software programs including without limitation systems configured to perform methods of the invention and or software programs comprising instructions executable by a computer to perform methods of the invention. Merely by way of example an exemplary system comprises a processor and instructions executable by the processor to perform one or more of the methods described above. As another example a software program which can be embodied on a computer readable medium may comprise instructions executable by one or more computers to perform one or more of the methods described above.

In accordance with various embodiments systems methods and software are provided for combating online fraud and specifically phishing operations. An exemplary phishing operation known as a spoofing scam uses spoofed email messages to induce unsuspecting consumers into accessing an illicit web site end providing personal information to a server believed to be operated by a trusted affiliate such as a bank online retailer etc. when in fact the server is operated by another patty masquerading as the trusted affiliate in order to gain access to the consumers personal information. As used herein the term personal information should be understood to include airy information that could be used to identify a person and or normally would be revealed by that person only to a relatively trusted entity. Merely by way of example personal information can include without limitation a financial institution account number credit card number expiration date and or security code sometimes referred to in the art as a Card Verification Number Card Verification Value Card Verification Code or CVV and or other financial information a userid password mother s maiden name and or other security information a full name address phone number social security number driver s license number and or other identifying information.

Certain embodiments of the invention feature systems methods and or software that attract such spoofed email messages analyze the messages to assess the probability that the message is involved with a fraudulent activity and or comprises a spoofed message and provide responses to any identified fraudulent activity. illustrates the functional elements of an exemplary system that can be used to combat online fraud in accordance with some of these embodiments and provides a general overview of how certain embodiments can operate. Various embodiments will be discussed in additional detail below . It should be noted that the functional architecture depicted by and the procedures described with respect to each function component are provided for purposes of illustration only and that embodiments of the invention are not necessarily limited to a particular functional or structural architecture the various procedures discussed herein may be performed in any suitable framework.

In many cases the system of may be operated by a fraud prevention service security service etc. referred to herein as a fraud prevention provider for one or more customers. Often the customers will be entities with products brands and or web sites that risk being imitated counterfeited and or spoofed such as online merchants financial institutions businesses etc. In other cases however the fraud prevention provider may be an employee of the customer an or an entity affiliated with and or incorporated within the customer such as the customer s security department information services department etc.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the system can include and or have access to a variety of data sources . Although the data sources are depicted for ease of illustration as part of system those skilled in the art will appreciate based on the disclosure herein that the data sources often are maintained independently by third parties and or may be accessed by the system . In some cases certain of the data sources may be mirrored and or copied locally as appropriate e.g. for easier access by the system .

The data source can comprise any source from which data about a possible online fraud may be obtained including without limitation one or more chat rooms newsgroup feeds domain registration files and or email feeds . The system can use information obtained from any of the data sources to detect an instance of online fraud and or to enhance the efficiency and or effectiveness of the fraud prevention methodology discussed herein. In some cases the system and or components thereof can be configured to crawl e.g. to automatically access and or download information from various of the data sources to find pertinent information perhaps on a scheduled basis e.g. once every 10 minutes once per day once per week etc. .

Merely by way of example there are several newsgroups commonly used to discuss new spamming spoofing schemes as well as to trade lists of harvested email addresses. There are also anti abuse newsgroups that track such schemes. The system may be configured to crawl any applicable newsgroup s to find information about new spoof scams new lists of harvested addresses new sources for harvested addresses etc. In some cases the system may be configured to search for specified keywords such as phish spoof etc. in such crawling. In other cases newsgroups may be scanned for URLs which may be downloaded or copied and subjected to further analysis for instance as described in detail below. In addition as noted above there may be one or more anti abuse groups that can be monitored. Such anti abuse newsgroups often list new scams that have been discovered and or provide URLs for such scams. Thus such anti abuse groups may be monitored crawled e.g. in the way described above to find relevant information which may then be subjected to further analysis. Any other data source including for example web pages and or entire web sites email messages etc. may be crawled and or searched in a similar manner.

As another example online chat rooms including without limitation Internet Relay Chat IRC channels chat rooms maintained hosted by various ISPs such as Yahoo America Online etc. and or the like e.g. may be monitored and or logs from such chat rooms may be crawled for pertinent information. In some cases an automated process known in the art as a bot may be used tor this purpose. In other cases however a human attendant may monitor such chat rooms personally. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that often such chat rooms require participation to maintain access privileges. In some cases therefore either a bot or a human attendant may post entries to such chat rooms in order to be seen as a contributor.

Domain registration zone files and or any other sources of domain and or network information such as Internet registry e.g. ARIN may also be used as data sources. As those skilled in the art will appreciate zone files are updated periodically e.g. hourly or daily to reflect new domain registrations. These files may be crawled scanned periodically to look for new domain registrations. In particular embodiments a zone file may be scanned for registrations similar to a customer s name and or domain. Merely by way of example the system can be configured to search for similar domains registration with a different top level domain TLD or global top level domain gTLD and or a domains with similar spellings. Thus if a customer uses the domain the registration of and or might be of interest as potential hosts for spoof sites and domain registrations for such domains could be downloaded and or noted for further analysis of the domains to which the registrations correspond. In some embodiments if a suspicious domain is found that domain may be placed on a monitoring list. Domains on the monitoring list may be monitored periodically as described in further detail below to determine whether the domain has become live e.g. whether there is an accessible web page associated with the domain .

One or more email feeds can provide additional data sources for the system . An email feed can be any source of email messages including spam messages as described above. Indeed a single incoming email message may be considered an email feed in accordance with some embodiments. In some cases for instance as described in more detail below bait email addresses may be seeded or planted by embodiments of the invention and or these planted addresses can provide a source of email i.e. an email feed . The system therefore can include an address planter which is shown in detail with respect to .

The address planter can include an email address generator . The address generator can be in communication with a user interface and or one or more databases each of which may comprise a relational database and or any other suitable storage mechanism . One such data store may comprises a database of userid information . The userid information can include a list of names numbers and or other identifiers that can be used to generate userids in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In some cases the userid information may be categorized e.g. into first names last names modifiers such as numbers or other characters etc. . Another data store may comprise domain information . The database of domain information may include a list of domains available for addresses. In many cases these domains will be domains that are owned managed by the operator of the address planter . In other cases however the domains might be managed by others such as commercial and or consumer ISPs etc.

The address generator comprises an address generation engine which can be configured to generate on an individual and or batch basis email addresses that can be planted at appropriate locations on the Internet or elsewhere . Merely by way of example the address generator may be configured to select one or more elements of userid information from the userid data store and or to combine a plurality of such elements and append to those elements a domain selected from the domain data store thereby creating an email address. The procedure for combining these components is discretionary. Merely by way of example in some embodiments the address generator can be configured to prioritize certain domain names such that relatively more addresses will be generated for those domains. In other embodiments the process might comprise a random selection of one or more address components.

Some embodiments of the address planter include a tracking database which can be used to track planting operations including without limitation the location e.g. web site etc. at which a particular address is planted the date time of the planting as well as any other pertinent detail about the planting. Merely by way of example if an address is planted by subscribing to a mailing list with a given address the mailing list as well perhaps as the web site list maintainer s email address etc. can be documented in the tracking database. In some cases the tracking of this information can be automated e.g. if the address planter s user interface includes a web browser and or email client and that web browser email client is used to plant the address information about the planting information may be automatically registered by the address planter . Alternatively a user may plant an address manually e.g. using her own web browser email client etc. and therefore may add pertinent information to the tracking database via a dedicated input window web browser etc.

In one set of embodiments therefore the address planter may be used to generate an email address plant an email address whether or not generated by the address planter in a specified location and or track reformation about the planting operation. In particular embodiments the address planter may also include one or more application programming interfaces API which can allow other components of the system of or any other appropriate system to interact programmatically with the address planter. Merely by way of example in some embodiments an API can allow the address planter to interfere with a web browser email client etc. to perform planting operations. In other embodiments as described above such functionality may be included in the address planter itself .

A particular use of the API in certain embodiments is to allow other system components including in particular the event manager to obtain and or update information about address planting operations and or their results . In some cases programmatic access to the address planter may not be needed the necessary components of the system can merely have access via SQL etc. one or more of the data stores as needed. Merely by way of example if an email message is analyzed by the system e.g. as described in detail below the system may interrogate the address planter and or one or more of the data stores to determine whether the email message was addressed to an address planted by the address planter . If so the address planter or some other component of the system such as the event manager may note the planting location as a location likely to provoke phish messages so that additional addresses may be planted in such a location as desired. In this way the system can implement a feedback loop to enhance the efficiency of planting operations. Note that this feedback process can be implemented for any desired type of unsolicited message including without limitation plush messages generic spam messages messages evidencing trademark misuse etc. .

Other email feeds are described elsewhere herein and they can include but are not limited to messages received directly from spammers phishers email forwarded from users ISPs and or any other source based perhaps on a suspicion that the email is a spam and or phish email forwarded from mailing lists including without limitation anti abuse mailing lists etc. When an email message which might be a spam message is received by the system that message can be analyzed to determine whether it is part of a phishing spoofing scheme. The analysis of information received from any of these data feeds is described in further detail below and it often includes an evaluation of whether a web site often referenced by a URL or other information received downloaded from a data source is likely to be engaged in a phishing and or spoofing scam.

Any email message incoming to the system can be analyzed according to various methods of the invention. As those skilled in the art will appreciate there is a vast quantity of unsolicited email traffic on the Internet and many of those messages may be of interest in the online fraud context. Merely by way of example some email messages may be transmitted as part of a phishing scam described in more detail herein. Other messages may solicit customers for black and or grey market goods such as pirated software counterfeit designer items including without limitation watches handbags etc. . Still other messages may be advertisements for legitimate goods but may comprise unlawful or otherwise forbidden e.g. by contract practices such as improper trademark use and or infringement deliberate under pricing of goods etc. Various embodiments of the invention can be configured to search for identify and or respond to one or more of these practices as detailed below. It should be noted as well that certain embodiments may be configured to access monitor crawl etc. data sources including zone files web sites chat rooms etc. other than email feeds for similar conduct . Merely by way of example the system could be configured to scan one or more data sources for the term ROLEX and or identify any improper advertisements for ROLEX watches.

Those skilled in the art will further appreciate that an average email address will receive many unsolicited email messages and the system may be configured as described below to receive and or analyze such messages. Incoming messages may be received in many ways. Merely by way of example some messages might be received randomly in that no action is taken to prompt the messages. Alternatively one or more users may forward such messages to the system. Merely by way of example an ISP might instruct its users to forward all unsolicited message to a particular address which could be monitored by the system as described below or might automatically forward copies of users incoming message to such an address. In particular embodiments an ISP might forward suspicious messages transmitted to its users and or parts of such suspicious messages including for example any URLs included in such messages to the system and or any appropriate component thereof on a periodic basis. In some cases the ISP might have a filtering system designed to facilitate this process and or certain features of the system might be implemented and or duplicated within the ISP s system.

As described above the system can also plant or seed bait email addresses and or other bait information in certain of the data sources e.g. for harvesting by spammers phishers. In general these bail email addresses are designed to offer an attractive target to a harvester of email addresses and the bait email addresses usually but not always will be generated specifically for the purpose of attracting phishers and therefore will not be used for normal email correspondence.

Returning to therefore the system can further include a honey pot . The honey pot can be used to receive information from each of the data sources and or to correlate that information for further analysis if needed. The honey pot can receive such information in a variety of ways according to various embodiments of the invention and how the honey pot receives the information is discretionary.

Merely by way of example the honey pot may but need not be used to do the actual crawling monitoring of the data sources as described above. In some cases one or more other computers programs may be used to do the actual crawling monitoring operations and or may transmit to the honey pot any relevant information obtained through such operations. For instance a process might be configured to monitor zone files and transmit to the honey pot for analysis any new lapsed and or otherwise modified domain registrations. Alternatively a zone file can be fed as input to the honey pot and or the honey pot can be used to search for any modified domain registrations. The honey pot may also be configured to receive email messages which might be forwarded from another recipient and or to monitor one or more bait email addresses for incoming email. In particular embodiments the system may be configured such that the honey pot is the mail server for one or more email addresses which may be bait addresses so that all mail addressed to such addresses is sent directly to the honey pot . The honey pot therefore can comprise a device and or software that functions to receive email messages such as an SMTP server etc. and or retrieve email messages such as a POP3 and or IMAP client etc. addressed to the bait email addresses. Such devices and software are well known in the art and need not be discussed in detail herein. In accordance with various embodiments the honey pot can be configured to receive any or all of a variety of well known message formats including SMTP MIME HTML RTF SMS and or the like. The honey pot may also comprise one or more databases and or other data structures which can be used to hold categorize information obtained from email messages and other data such as zone files etc. as well as from crawling monitoring operations.

In some aspects the honey pot might be configured to do some preliminary categorization and or filtration of received data including without limitation received email messages . In particular embodiments for example the honey pot can be configured to search received data for blacklisted words or phrases. The concept of a blacklist is described in further detail below . The honey pot can segregate data messages containing such blacklisted terms for prioritized processing etc. and or filter data messages based on these or other criteria.

The honey pot also may be configured to operate in accordance with a customer policy . An exemplary customer policy might instruct the honey pot to watch for certain types and or formats of emails including for instance to search for certain keywords allowing for customization on a customer by customer basis. In addition the honey pot may utilize extended monitoring options including monitoring for other conditions such as monitoring a customers web site for compromises etc. The honey pot upon receiving a message optionally can convert the email message into a data file.

In some embodiments the honey pot will be in communication with one or more correlation engines which can perform a more detailed analysis of the email messages and or other information data such as information received from crawling monitoring operations received by the honey pot . It should be noted however that the assignment of functions herein to various components such as honey pots correlation engines etc. is arbitrary and in accordance with some embodiments certain components may embody the functionality ascribed to other components. 

On a periodic basis and or as incoming messages information are received retrieved by the honey pot the honey pot will transmit the received retrieved email messages and or corresponding data files to an available correlation engine for analysis. Alternatively each correlation engine may be configured to periodically retrieve messages data files from the honey pot e.g. using a scheduled FTP process etc. . For example in certain implementations the honey pot may store email messages and or other data which may or may not be categorized filtered as described above and each correlation engine may retrieve data an or messages on a periodic and or ad hoc basis. For instance when a correlation engine has available processing capacity e.g. it has finished processing any data messages in its queue it might download the next one hundred messages data flies etc. from the honeypot for processing. In accordance with certain embodiments various correlation engines e.g. may be specifically configured to process certain types of data e.g. domain registrations email etc. In other embodiments all correlation engines may be configured to process any available data and or the plurality of correlation engines e.g. can be implemented to take advantage of the enhanced efficiency of parallel processing.

The correlation engine s can analyze the data including merely by way of example email messages to determine whether any of the messages received by the honey pot are phish messages and or are likely to evidence a fraudulent attempt to collect personal information. Procedures for performing this analysis are described in detail below.

The correlation engine can be in communication an event manager which may also be in communication with a monitoring center . Alternatively the correlation engine may also be in direct communication with the monitoring center . In particular embodiments the event manager may be a computer and or software application which can be accessible by a technician in the monitoring center . If the correlation engine determines that a particular incoming email message is a likely candidate for fraudulent activity or that information obtained through crawling monitoring operations may indicate fraudulent activity the correlation engine can signal to the event manager that an event should be created for the email message. In particular embodiments the correlation engine and or event manager can be configured to communicate using the Simple Network Management SNMP protocol well known in the art and the correlation engine s signal can comprise an SNMP trap indicating that analyzed message s and or data have indicated a possible fraudulent event that should be investigated further. In response to the signal e.g. SNMP trap the event manager can create an event which may comprise an SNMP event or may be of a proprietary format .

Upon the creation of an event the event manager can commence an intelligence gathering operation investigation of the message information and or any URLs included in and or associated with message information. As described in detail below the investigation can. Include gathering information about the domain and or IP address associated with the URLs as well as interrogating the server s hosting the resources e.g. web page etc. referenced by the URLs. As used herein the term server is sometimes used as the context indicates any computer system that is capable of offering IP based services or conducting online transactions in which personal information may be exchanged and specifically a computer system that may be engaged in the fraudulent collection of personal information such as by serving web pages that request personal information. The most common example of such a server therefore is a web server that operates using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and or any of several related services although in some cases servers may provide other services such as database services etc . In certain embodiments if a single email message or information file includes multiple URLs a separate event may be created for each URL in other cases a single event may cover all of the URLs in a particular message. If the message and or investigation indicates that the event relates to a particular customer the event may be associated with that customer.

The event manager can also prepare an automated report and or cause another process such as a reporting module not shown to generate a report which may be analyzed by an additional technician at the monitoring center or any other location for that matter for the event the report can include a summary of the investigation and or any information obtained by the investigation. In some embodiments the process may be completely automated so that no human analysis is necessary. If desired and perhaps as indicated by the customer policy the event manager can automatically create a customer notification informing the affected customer of the event. The customer notification can comprise some or all of the information from the report . Alternatively the customer notification can merely notify the customer of an event e.g. via email telephone pager etc allowing a customer to access a copy of the report e.g. via a web browser client application etc. . Customers may also view events of interest to the using a portal such as a dedicated web site that shows events involving that customer e.g. where the event involves a fraud using the customer s trademarks products business identity etc. .

If the investigation reveals that the server referenced by the URL is involved in a fraudulent attempt to collect personal information the technician may initiate an Interdiction response also referred to herein as a technical response . Alternatively the event manager could be configured to initiate a response automatically without intervention by the technician . Depending on the circumstances and the embodiment a variety of responses could be appropriate. For instance those skilled in the art will recognize that in some cases a server can be compromised i.e. hacked in which case the server is executing applications and or providing services not under the control of the operator of the server. As used in this context the term operator means an entity that owns maintains and or otherwise is responsible for the server. If the investigation reveals that the server appears to be compromised such that the operator of the server is merely an unwitting victim and not a participant in the fraudulent scheme the appropriate response could simply comprise informing the operator of the server that the server has been compromised and perhaps explaining how to repair any vulnerabilities that allowed the compromise.

In other cases other responses may be more appropriate. Such responses can be classified generally as either administrative or technical in nature as described more fully below. In some cases the system may include a dilution engine not shown which can be used to undertake technical responses as described more fully below. In some embodiments the dilution engine may be a software application running on a computer and configured inter alia to create and or format responses to a phishing scam in accordance with methods of the invention. The dilution engine may reside on the same computer as and or be incorporated in a correlation engine event manager etc. and or may reside on a separate computer which may be in communication with any of these components.

As described above in some embodiments the system may incorporate a feedback process to facilitate a determination of which planting locations techniques are relatively more effective at generating spam. Merely by way of example the system can include an address planter which may provide a mechanism for tracking information about planted addresses as described above. Correspondingly the event manager may be configured to analyze an email message and particular a message resulting in an event to determine if the message resulted from a planting operation. For instance the addresses of the message may be evaluated to determine which if any corresponds to one or more address es planted by the system . If it is determined that the message does correspond to one or more planted addresses a database of planted addresses may be consulted to determine the circumstances of the planting and the system might display this information for a technician. In this way a technician could choose to plant additional addresses in fruitful locations. Alternatively the system could be configured to provide automatic feedback to the address planter which in turn could be configured to automatically plant additional addresses in such locations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention therefore a set of data about a possible online fraud which may be an email message domain registration URL and or any other relevant data about an online fraud may be received and analyzed to determine the existence of a fraudulent activity an example of which may be a phishing scheme. As used herein the term phishing means a fraudulent scheme to induce a user to take an action that the user would not otherwise take such as provide his or her personal information buy illegitimate products etc. often by sending unsolicited email message or some other communication such as a telephone call web page SMS message etc. requesting that the user access an server such as a web server which may appear to be legitimate. If so any relevant email message URL web site etc. may be investigated and or responsive action may be taken. Additional features and other embodiments are discussed in further detail below.

As noted above certain embodiments of the invention provide systems for dealing with online fraud. The system of can be considered exemplary of one set of embodiments. The system generally runs in a networked environment which can include a network . In many cases the network will be the Internet although in some embodiments the network may be some other public and or private network. In general any network capable of supporting data communications between computers will suffice. The system includes a master computer which can be used to perform any of the procedures or methods discussed herein. In particular the master computer can be configured e.g. via a software application to crawl monitor various data sources seed bait email addresses gather and or analyze email messages transmitted to the bait email addresses create and or track events investigate URLs and or servers prepare reports about events notify customers about events and or communicate with a monitoring center and more particularly with a monitoring computer within the monitoring center e.g. via a telecommunication link. The master computer may be a plurality of computers and each of the plurality of computers may be configured to perform specific processes in accordance with various embodiments. Merely by way of example one computer may be configured to perform the functions described above with respect to a honey pot another computer may be configured to execute software associated with a correlation engine e.g. performing the analysis of email messages data files a third computer may be configured to serve as an event manager e.g. investigating and or responding to incidents of suspected fraud and or a fourth computer may be configured to act as a dilution engine e.g. to generate and or transmit a technical response which may comprise merely by way of example one or more HTTP requests as described in further detail below. Likewise the monitoring computer may be configured to perform any appropriate functions.

The monitoring center the monitoring computer and or the master computer may be in communication with one or more customers e.g. via a telecommunication link which can comprise connection via any medium capable of providing voice and or data communication such as a telephone line wireless connection wide area network local area network virtual private network and or the like. Such communications may be data communications and or voice communications e.g. a technician at the monitoring center can conduct telephone communications with a person at the customer . Communications with the customer s can include transmission of an event report notification of an event and or consultation with respect to responses to fraudulent activities.

The master computer can include and or be in communication with a plurality of data sources including without limitation the data sources described above. Other data sources may be used as well. For example the master computer can comprise an evidence database and or a database of safe data which can be used to generate and or store bait entail addresses and or persona information for one or more fictitious or real identities for use as discussed in detail below. As used herein the term database should be interpreted broadly to include any means of storing data including traditional database management software operating system file systems and or the like. The master computer can also be in communication with one or mom sources of information about the Internet and or any servers to be investigated. Such sources of information can include a domain WHOIS database zone data file etc. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that WHOIS databases often are maintained by central registration authorities e.g. the American Registry for Internet Numbers ARIN Network Solutions Inc. etc and the master computer can be configured to query those authorities alternatively the master computer could be configured to obtain such information from other sources such as privately maintained databases etc. The master computer and or any other appropriate system component may use these resources and others such as publicly available domain name server DNS data routing data and or the like to investigate a server suspected of conducting fraudulent activities. As noted above the server can be any computer capable of processing online transactions serving web pages and or otherwise collecting personal information.

The system can also include one or more response computers which can be used to provide a technical response to fraudulent activities as described in more detail below. In particular embodiments one or more the response computers may comprise and or be in communication with a dilution engine which can be used to create and or format a response to a phishing scam. It should be noted that the functions of the response computers can also be performed by the master computer monitoring computer etc. In particular embodiments a plurality of computers e.g. can be used to provide a distributed response. The response computers as well as the master computer and or the monitoring computer can be special purpose computers with hardware firmware and or software instructions tor performing the necessary tasks. Alternatively these computers may be general purpose computers having an operating system including for example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. In particular embodiments the computers can run any of a variety of free operating systems such as GNU Linux FreeBSD etc.

The computers can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. These computers can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from and or interaction with other computers including without limitation web applications. Such applications can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language including merely by way of example C C Java COBOL or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL or any combination thereof. The Computers can also include database server software including without limitation packages commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase ISBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running locally and or on other computers. Merely by way of example the master computer can be an Intel processor machine operating the GNU Linux operating system and the PostgreSQL database engine configured to run proprietary application software for performing tasks in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

In some embodiments one or more computers can create web pages dynamically as necessary for displaying investigation reports etc. These web pages can serve as an interlace between one computer e.g. the master computer and another e.g. the monitoring computer . Alternatively a computer e.g. the master computer may run a server application while another e.g. the monitoring computer device can run a dedicated client application. The server application therefore can serve as an interface for the user device running the client application. Alternatively certain of the computers may be configured as thin clients or terminals in communication with other computers.

The system can include one or more data stores which can comprise one or more hard drives etc. and which can be used to store for example databases e.g. The location of the data stores is discretionary Merely by way of example they can reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers. Alternatively they can be remote from any or all of these devices so long as they are in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In some embodiments the data stores can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored a computer readable storage medium local to and or remote from the respective computer as appropriate. 

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program as described above and or designed to implement methods of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific embodiments and or requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both.

Another set of embodiments provides methods of combating online fraud which can be in some cases implemented by a computer or embodied in a computer software program. These methods may be but need not be implemented as a computer software application and or with a computer system including the systems described above. collectively illustrate several such methods which may be implemented separately and or in conjunction with one another as well as other methods . Some or all of the procedures described as part of these methods may be but need not be performed by the various components of system similar to that described with respect to perhaps with interaction from one or more human technicians.

At block one or more safe accounts may be created e.g. in the customer s system. These safe accounts can be valid accounts e.g. active credit card accounts that do not correspond to any real account holder and the safe accounts may be associated with fictitious personal information including a valid or apparently valid identifier such as an account number social security number credit card number etc. that does not correspond to any real account holder but may be accepted as valid by the customer s system. The safe accounts thereafter can be monitored block for any transactions or access attempts. Because the safe accounts do not correspond to a real account holder any transactions access attempt etc. account activity represent an illegitimate use. In addition the safe account can be used to trace and or track the use of the identifier as described in more detail below and or to compile an evidentiary record of fraudulent activity.

The method can also include generating and or planting bait email addresses which can be used to attract spam and or phish messages. In some cases the bait addresses may be selected to be attractive to phishers e.g. from attractive domains and or using English proper names as the userids and or to be prioritized on harvested lists e.g. having userids that begin with members the letter a or non alphabetic characters etc. . In this way if a phisher sends a phish message to each of the addresses on a harvested list there may be a higher probability that the bait addresses will receive the phish message relatively early in the mailing process allowing the system to take responsive action before many actual recipients have had a chance to provide personal information in response to the phish.

Thus in some embodiments generating an email address can comprise selecting one or more userid elements block such as those described above which can be used to generate an email address. The selection of userid elements can be performed by an address planter as described above by any other appropriate tool and or manually. If desired two or more userid elements may be concatenated or otherwise combined to form a userid block . In particular embodiments the userid may simply comprise a single userid element.

The method can further comprise selecting a hostname and or domain name for the bait address block . As described herein the selection of a domain may consider several factors. Merely by way of example certain domains may be prioritized as relatively more likely to provoke spam and or phish messages e.g. because of the nature of the domain name because email addresses using that domain have provoked relatively more phish messages in the past etc. . In many cases the domain may be a domain that is owned and or managed by the entity responsible for planting the addresses or a domain to which such an entity has access . In particular cases popular consumer ISP domains such as aol.com msn.com etc. may be used. The owners of such domains may be in cooperation with the entity responsible for planting addresses. Alternatively the address planter or another tool may be used to create an account at the appropriate ISP and or to configure the account to auto forward received messages to a honeypot etc.

The domain name then may be appended to the userid to create an entail address block . At this point any necessary steps to enable the email address such as creating a userid on the appropriate host opening an account with an ISP etc. may be taken either automatically or by a technician. It can be appreciated however that in many cases no steps need be taken for a particular userid since the mail exchange for the selected domain may be configured to accept incoming mall to any userid as described herein .

One or more planting locations for the generated email address may be selected block . Planting locations can include web sites newsgroups and or other locations described herein that may be likely to result in the planted address being harvested and or receiving spam and or phish emails. In some cases it may be desirable to plant each email address in only one location e.g. to facilitate the tracking and feedback processes described below and with respect to . In other cases e.g. when it is desirable to maximize the impact of each generated address a particular address may be planted in multiple locations. In particular embodiments the selection of planting locations may be designed to facilitate triangulation procedures in assessing which planting location produced a phish spam message as described below in detail.

At block then bait email addresses can be planted in appropriate locations as described above. Bait entail addresses may be generated addresses addresses associated with purchased domains pre existing addresses etc. In some cases the planting locations may be the locations selected at block . The task of planting also referred to herein as seeding the bait addresses can be automated e.g. performed by a computer system such as a honey pot address generator etc. and or performed manually. Merely by way of example an address generator similar to the address generator described with respect to can be used to plant bait email addresses using in certain embodiments a process similar to that described in detail with respect to . As noted above in particular embodiments it may be desirable to plant each created address in only one location e.g. to assist in tracking and or implementing a feedback loop . In other cases to maximize the effect of each generated address it may be desirable to plant each address in multiple locations.

In other embodiments a variety of automated and or manual processes could be used to plant seed bait addresses which themselves may have been generated by an address generator manually and or through other automated processes merely by way of example an automated process could post newsgroup items that include bait email addresses create a domain registration with a bait email address as the administrative contact compile and or distribute lists of bait addresses formatted to appear as a list of harvested addresses etc. In some situations planting an email address can comprise providing additional information. Merely by way of example if planting an address comprises creating a WHOIS record with the address as an administrative contact the planting operation can comprise providing other relevant information for inclusion in the WHOIS record such as a telephone number contact name address etc. In other examples for instance when subscribing to a news letter a first and or last name may be provided with the bait address. This information may be supplied manually and or may be generated in automated fashion e.g. by an address planter perhaps in a manner similar to the generation of userids. In some cases as described below such additional information may be used to refine the process of determining which planting location resulted in a spam phish email. Consequently it may be useful to provide different information in each planting location even if the bait address is the same .

The planting locations may be tracked block e.g. through the use of a tracking database as described above. Additionally any information provided along with the planted address may also be tracked. The tracking of planting locations can facilitate a feedback process as described below.

After the bait email addresses have been planted any incoming email messages to the bait addresses can be gathered block using any acceptable procedure including the procedures discussed above. In accordance with some embodiments for example gathering an incoming email message can comprise downloading the incoming email message from a honey pot mad server and or converting the email message into a data file which can have separate portions and or fields corresponding to the header information of the email message the body portion of the email message any URLs included in the email message and or any attachments to the email message. Gathering the email message can further comprise transmitting the email message to a correlation engine tor analysis and or the correlation downloading the email message. Any gathered incoming email messages and or corresponding data files can be analyzed to determine whether the message should be categorized as a likely phish i.e. a fraudulent email message block . One exemplary process for analyzing email messages is described below by reference to .

In accordance with particular embodiments the planting process may implement a feedback loop block including for instance as described above. Merely by way of example when an incoming email message is analyzed the addressee of the incoming email message may be examined to determine if it correlates to any generated and or planted address. If so a lookup may be performed to determine where the address was planted e.g. by searching a tracking database and feedback may be provided to an address generator and or any other tool or entity responsible for planting addresses to indicate that the planting location tor that address is a likely source for spam and or phish email messages. If desired then such location may be prioritized as a location for additional planting operations.

In some embodiments e.g. where a generated address is planted in multiple locations the feedback process may be more sophisticated. For example if a particular address was planted in multiple locations merely ascertaining the addressee of the incoming phish spam message may be insufficient to determine which of the planting locations resulted in the message. In such cases any of several procedures may be used to provide more information about which planting location generated the message. Merely by way of example a triangulation procedure may be used. Consider the situation in which address A was planted in locations X and Y while address B was planted in locations Y and Z and address C was planted in locations X and Z. If phish messages are received by addresses A and C it is likely that location X was the plant location that produced the phish messages. Similarly if phish messages are received by addresses A and B it is likely that location Y was the plant location that produced the phish messages and so on. It should be noted that the selection of plant locations for particular generated addresses may be configured to enhance the ability to perform such triangulation .

Another exemplary procedure can include parsing the incoming message for information identifying which of the planting locations produced the phish message. In a simple case the domain from which the message originated may correlate with a domain at which the address was planted. In some cases domain analysis as described elsewhere herein may be used to refine this analysis. Merely by way of example the WHOIS records tor the planting locations may be analyzed to find any information that matches corresponding WHOIS information for the domain from which the phish message originated. In other cases the plush message may correlated to information provided with a planted address such as a given name last name etc. and such information may be used to determine which planting location resulted in the message. Based on the disclosure herein one skilled in the art can appreciate that a variety of procedures may be used to ascertain which of several planting locations resulted in a phish message.

In particular embodiments accessing a data source can include monitoring that data source. Monitoring a data source can include in some cases accessing the data source on a periodic basis. In accordance with some embodiments monitoring a data source can comprise evaluating the data source for changes e.g. additional and or update information occurring since a previous access of the data source. Merely by way of example a domain registration zone file may be monitored to find modifications to domain registrations as described in more detail below . In other embodiments monitoring a data source can comprise tracking changes to the data source occurring while the data source is being accessed. As one example if the data source is an online chat room monitoring the data source can comprise viewing downloading copying etc. an online conversation taking place in the chat room. Somewhat analogously if the data source is a newsgroup the newsgroup may be monitored for new posts replies etc.

The method can also include acquiring information from an accessed monitored data source blcok . Like accessing monitoring a data source acquiring information can take a variety of forms. For instance if the data source is a file or set of files such as a web site domain registration file newsgroup acquiring information can comprise searching the file s e.g. for keywords etc. Merely by way of example information may be acquired by searching for URLs and or relevant terms such as phish spoof scam etc. as well as variants of such words. Names of particular customers might also be search terms as the presence of one of those names could indicate a possible fraudulent activity involving the customer. Files including such words may be downloaded and or categorized for further analysis. In other cases acquiring information can comprise copying and or logging transcripts of online that sessions that include relevant information including information comprising URLS and or relevant terms.

In particular embodiments including for instance if a data source is being monitored acquiring information can comprise downloading and or otherwise making a record of any modifications to the data source. This can be done genetically i.e. with respect to all modifications of the data source and or the information contained therein and or selectively i.e. only with respect to relevant information . Merely by way of example if a domain registration zone file is being monitored all changes to registration records might be noted and or downloaded. Alternatively only changes that meet certain criteria e.g. new domains that are suspiciously similar to a client s domain name and or trademark or new domains that appear to cater to spammers phishers and or spoofers might be noted and or downloaded. In particular cases if a useful domain name expires e.g. is marked expired and or disappears from a domain name registration zone file that information may be noted as described in further detail with respect to .

In general acquiring information can comprise any action by which information may be obtained from a data source. Moreover based on the disclosure herein those skilled in the art will appreciate that the procedures of acquiring accessing a data source and acquiring information may be consolidated into a single procedure. In some cases the process of acquiring information may also include notifying an administrator and or an automated process that new information has been acquired and needs to be evaluated. This notification can include without limitation an email message an inter process software message an application call etc. In particular cases acquired information may be placed in a particular location e.g. a database or other data structure a particular directory in a file system etc. and or a process may monitor that location for new information to be evaluated. Hence the notification might simply comprise placing the information in the correct location.

Once information has been acquired that information may be evaluated block . Evaluation of the information may be performed by an automated process and or by a human technician. In some cases evaluation may be performed during the process of acquiring the information. In a general sense evaluating the information comprises making a determination of whether the information is likely to require further action and or determining what type of action may be required. Hence the procedures for evaluating the information are likely to vary depending at least in part on the type of information acquired customer preferences as noted in a customer policy for example 

Merely by way of example if the information relates to a suspected phishing scam evaluation of the information may comprise parsing the information for a URL. If a URL is found that may indicate that further investigation of the URL should be performed. Likewise if information indicates a possible spam source anchor harvesting operation it may be appropriate to further investigate the possibility of planting bait email addresses for harvesting. In other embodiments the acquired information may indicate domain activity such as a new registration expired registration etc. and evaluation of the information may include evaluating whether the domain activity warrants further action.

Merely by way of example in particular cases if the acquired information indicates that a suspicious domain has been registered it may be appropriate to monitor the domain block . Monitoring the domain can be considered in some cases to be part of the evaluation process. In accordance with certain embodiments monitoring the domain can comprise checking the domain for activity perhaps periodically e.g. every fifteen minutes every hour every day etc. . Checking the domain for activity can comprise attempting to access a website at the domain e.g. by sending an HTTP GET request either to the domain itself and or to common hostnames www web etc. at the domain interrogating the domain for servers monitoring domain registration records and or DNS records etc. If a domain becomes live i.e. a server begins operating in that domain that might indicate a need for further investigation of a possible fraudulent activity.

If evaluation of the information and or monitoring of a domain does indicate that further investigation is necessary such an investigation may be conducted. In accordance with some embodiments an investigation may be initiated by creating an event block e.g. in an event manager and or otherwise making a record of the need for further investigation. described below illustrates some exemplary methods of investigating possible fraudulent activity and block also described below illustrates one possible procedure for creating an event. In some embodiments events may be prioritized for investigation and or response. Some events may be judged to be relatively less critical than other events and the determination of which events are considered relatively more critical is discretionary. Merely by way of example some types of online fraud e.g. the selling of fake watches may be judged to be less harmful than other types e.g. attempts to collect personal information . In some cases global parameters may define for all customers the relative urgency of different types of events. In other cases a particular customer s profile can be configured to indicate for that customer which events should be treated as relatively more urgent. There may be several levels of urgency and or the levels can be identified using colors e.g. yellow orange red numbers e.g. 1 5 and or any other appropriate scheme to help the system technicians and or any other interested parties in identifying the relative urgency of a particular event.

As an example of how the method can be used to monitor a domain in accordance with particular embodiments of the invention consider the following scenario. If a company Acme Products wishes to avoid phishing schemes associated with its brand name the company and or a third party security service provider for example may choose to monitor a zone file as a data source. Through the monitoring of the data source it is discovered that the domain has been registered. In accordance with methods of the invention a monitoring system can monitor that domain for instance by periodically making HTTP GET requests to the domain and or to a host on that domain such as www.acmeproduct.com . Once the domain has become available i.e. the HTTP GET request returns something other than a failure the system can be configured to crawl the web site taking a snapshot of one or more perhaps all available pages on the web site. The snapshot can comprise a copy of the page s themselves and or merely one of more checksums and or hash values computed from e.g. the contents of the page s . This procedure can be continued periodically such as for example once per minute hour day etc. and or such periodic Snapshots can be compared one against the other for example by quickly comparing hash values for returned pages etc . One skilled in the art will appreciate that in its initial stages a domain usually will have a park page indicating that the web site is under construction etc. Hence when the web site goes live i.e. has some content other than a park page the comparison of periodic snapshots will reveal this change. At the point the web site goes live an investigation and or analysis of the web site may be performed. In particular embodiments for example an event may be opened in an event manager and or the investigation analysis procedures described elsewhere herein may be performed. Thus by monitoring the domain a possible phishing operation may be uncovered before and phish messages have been sent and consequently before any customers have been scammed by the phishing operation .

Other embodiments of the invention provide methods that can be used to encourage additional incoming spam messages. illustrates one such method . Messages prompted by such methods may in some embodiments be processed in similar fashion to that described with respect to and or analyzed as described in further detail below. In general the method involves the acquisition of expired domains and the collection of email messages addressed to those domains. As those skilled in the art will appreciate once a domain expires email addressed to recipients at that domain generally will no longer be routed to the recipients. Such recipients therefore generally will acquire new email addresses and notify their correspondents of those new addresses who thereafter will use the new address not the address at the expired domain. Thus in many cases any email messages still being sent to the expired domain will have a higher than average probability of being spam messages.

The method can comprise accessing domain information block . In many cases accessing domain information can comprise accessing a relevant data source e.g. a domain registration zone file and or acquiring information from that data source. The procedures described above may be used to access domain information in this fashion. In other cases a variety of resource may be used to access domain information including merely by way of example subscription to newsletters identify log expired domains and or domains about to expire domain squatting websites which often advertise expired domains for sale and or the like.

The method can further comprise evaluating the suitability of the domain for attracting spam messages block . Merely by way of example spammers sometimes send messages by demographics and any attempt to attract such spam can attempt to simulate such demographics. For instance a particular domain e.g. might indicate that users receiving email at that domain are likely to be car enthusiasts and or another domain e.g. might indicate that users receiving email at that domain are likely to be enthusiasts of the arts. Other domains might indicate other likely demographics such as female users male users young users etc.

Other factors might be considered in evaluating the suitability of a domain. Merely by way of example a domain that has been registered for a relatively long period of time would be relatively more likely to receive a greater quantity of spam than a domain with a relatively short history. Thus evaluating the suitability of a domain might include an analysis of the length of time the domain has been registered and or in existence. Such an analysis could include an examination of the relevant domain registration record a review of various archive sites including merely by way of example that store archived web sites etc. Further if the domain registration already has expired the length of time since the domain was last in use may be considered as a factor a recently expired domain is relatively more likely to receive spam than a long expired domain.

If the domain registration has not already expired the method may comprise monitoring domain registration records and or other data sources for expiration block . Merely by way of example those skilled in the art will understand that a typical domain registration record e.g. a record in a zone file often will provide an indication of an expiration date for the domain. If a suitable domain is found the expiration date may be noted and or data sources e.g. zone ides may be monitored around the scheduled expiration date to determine whether the domain registration is renewed or expired. Similarly zone file updates may be monitored for expired domains as discussed above and such domains may be evaluated for suitability. Thus in accordance with various embodiments the procedures tor evaluating the suitability of the domain and monitoring the expiration of a domain may occur in any suitable order. In certain embodiments monitoring the expiration of a domain may include monitoring any activity at the domain for instance using the techniques described above.

If a suitable expired or otherwise available domain is found that domain may be acquired block . In some cases acquiring a domain can comprise registering the domain with an appropriate registrar a procedure familiar to those skilled in the art. This procedure may be automated and or performed manually by a technician. In other cases acquiring a domain can comprise purchasing the domain from a third party. In such cases re registration of the domain may be required. Optionally bait email addresses related to the domain may be seeded and or planted block e.g. for harvesting. One exemplary procedure for seeding planting bait addresses is discussed above with respect to . Other procedures may be used as well.

A mail server which might be a honeypot can be configured to receive mail addressed to recipients at the domain and or email messages sent to the domain can be accepted by the mall server block . Accepted messages may then be processed as described with respect to other methods discussed herein and or as desired. In accordance with particular embodiments the system may be configured so that all incoming messages to the domain are accepted whether or not they are addressed to a valid recipient. In fact messages addressed to invalid recipient addresses may be more likely to be spam and or phishing attempts. It can be anticipated for example that some quantity of messages will be addressed to former users of the domain and as described above it is relatively more likely that such messages will be mass mailings.

Further embodiments of the invention can be used to analyze investigate and or respond to any received information and or messages including without limitation information messages received as a result of the methods described above . for example illustrates in detail a method of analyzing an incoming email message or data file in accordance with certain embodiments of the invention. In the discussion of the terms data file and message are used interchangeably since the methods of analysis can apply equally to a message and a data file which may as discussed above correspond to a received email message but which also may correspond to any other data set which may be acquired from a variety of different data sources such as a news group posting web page and or the like. Similarly the other methods discussed herein may be applied to data tiles corresponding to such data sets and or sources. It should be noted that some of the procedures illustrated on may in particular embodiments take place at other points in the method illustrated by including for example gathering incoming email messages block and that the organization of the procedures in these methods and indeed all of the methods described herein is merely for ease of description. Certain procedures may occur in an order different than that described herein indeed various procedures may be added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The method illustrated by can include time stamping the message and or any other data to be analyzed and or assigning an identifier to the message data which may be sufficient to uniquely identify the message block which can aid in the identification e.g. throughout the processes discussed herein of the message provide a permanent indication of when the message was received and or facilitate the comparison of different messages. The procedure for developing an identifier is discretionary. Merely by way of example the identifier may include information about when the analysis of the message data e.g. a time stamp an indicator of the source of the message etc. Alternatively the identifier and or a component thereof may be assigned serially and or randomly and or the identifier may identify the type of data to be analyzed e.g. domain registration email message etc. .

The method can also include in some embodiments creating a data file from the message block perhaps in the manner described above. As noted above unless the context clearly indicates otherwise email messages other data such as for example domain registrations received URLs etc. and data files created from such messages data can be processed in similar fashion and the description of the procedures herein generally can be applied equally with appropriate modifications as necessary to any of these items. The data files may then be collected block for instance by transmitting the data files to a correlation engine and or by a correlation engine downloading the data files from the computer e.g. honey pot that gathered the data files. In some cases it may not be necessary to collect the data files for instance the correlation engine and the honey pot may be incorporated within a single software program or program module and or be running on the same computer. 

A data file may then be parsed or read by the correlation engine block . The parsing can divide the data file into various sections and or fields which can allow the fields and or sections of the data file to be analyzed by the correlation engine. For example with respect to an email message the header information can be analyzed block to determine for instance whether the source and or destination information in the header has been forged. If so it is relatively more likely that the email is a phish. As another example the routing information in the message header may be analyzed to determine whether the message originated from and or was routed through a suspect domain again enhancing the likelihood that the message is a phish.

Any text including without limitation the body of an email message i.e. the body field of a data file can then be analyzed block . The analysis of the body can include searching the body for blacklisted and or whitelisted terms merely by way of example a blacklisted term might include terms commonly found in phish messages such as free trip terms indicating that the message refers so personal information such as credit card approval confirm etc. and or brand names the name of a customer etc. Conversely whitelisted terms are those that commonly indicate that the message is not a phish. It should be noted at this point that the system can be configured to provide a feedback loop such that if a message is determined eventually to be a phish the list of blacklisted terms can be automatically updated to include the text of that message or portions of that test . Further the correlation engine and or any other appropriate component can include heuristic algorithms designed to defeat common phish tactics such as obvious misspellings garbage text and the like. Likewise the system may implement stemming logic in order to identify common grammatical variations of root words e.g. the words going goes gone etc. can be identified as variants of go and vice versa .

Analyzing the body of the message can include other forms of analysis as well. Merely by way of example if the body includes a URL or other form of redirection the presence of those devices can also indicate a higher likelihood that the message is a phish or conversely that the message is not a phish . In addition the URLs and other redirection devices can be analyzed separately as discussed below . Moreover other factors such as the length of the body of the email message whether the body includes graphics etc. can be considered In the analysis of body of the email message.

In addition if the message does include a URL or any other form of reference and or redirection the URL can be analyzed. This analysis can also be applied to a URL received from another source such as a list of URLs transmitted by an ISP the URL of a suspicious web page a URL associated with a suspicious domain registration etc. For example network data including without limitation DNS and or WHOIS data as well as network records e.g. ARIN information for the domain associated with the URL can be accessed. If this data indicates that the URL does not resolve to a domain e.g. the URL resolves only to an IP address the URL may be part of a phishing scam. Similarly those skilled in the art can appreciate that phishing seams often are based from servers domains outside the United States as well a particular domain may be known to be likely to host phishing scams. Hence if the URL resolves to a suspicious domain or global top level domain gTLD the URL may be part of a phishing scam. As another example a URL and or the network data for the domain and or IP address associated with the URL may be compared with information in the email headers including for example source address FROM field etc. and or network data associated with such header information. If this comparison reveals inconsistencies if may be relatively more likely that the message is a phish. Conversely if this information is consistent it may be but is not necessarily relatively more likely that the message is not a phish.

In accordance with some embodiments analyzing a URL obtained from any source can involve one or more detailed tests. illustrates an exemplary method comprising a variety of such tests any of which may be performed in various orders and or combinations depending on the embodiment . One test for example comprises testing the URL to determine that it live e.g. that a web page etc. referenced by the URL is available block . This may be performed using a web browser an HTTP GET request etc. Further the DNS information for a server and or a domain referenced by the URL may be obtained using any of several common methods and or analyzed block e.g. to determine the IP address and or network block of the server to which the URL refers . Similarly the WHOIS information for the domain may be obtained and or analyzed block e.g. to determine who owns the domain. In particular any particular identifying information for the domain e.g. a contact name address email address phone number etc. may be noted. Any of the information obtained by these procedures may be stored for future reference and or compared to similar information obtained through earlier analyses. In this way for example repeat offenders may be identified efficiently. Merely by way of example if a domain associated with a URL being analyzed has the same contact email address as a domain previously found to be associated with an online scam the current URL may be relatively more likely to be associated with a scam.

In accordance with some embodiments the geographical location of the server hosting the URL may be determined block . Those skilled in the art will appreciated that there are a variety of known procedures for determining the geographical location of a server based on its domain name and or IP address for example and any of these procedures may be used. The geographical location of a server can provide an indication of whether the server is likely engaged in a fraudulent activity. Merely by way of example if a server located in Eastern Europe is hosting a web site that purports to be associated with a company located in the U.S. it may be relatively more likely that the web site is fraudulent. In addition determining the location of the server may provide an indication of what administrative and or technical responses are available with respect to web pages served by that server.

The composition of the URL itself may also reveal whether the URL is likely to refer to a fraudulent web site. Merely by way of example in many cases a URL referring to a legitimate corporate web site will have a fairly simple directory path such as the root default path for the web server e.g. or perhaps a subdirectory of the root path e.g. verify . Any URLs with convoluted or unusual directory paths therefore may be more likely to be engaged in fraudulent activity and an examination of the URL itself might provide some indication of this fact. Thus the method can include in some cases evaluating the directory path of the URL block . Merely by way of example if the URL references a user directory e.g. jsmith the URL may be relatively more likely to refer to an illegitimate web site since a legitimate corporate web site would not be expected to reside in a user s directory. Because scammers recognize this fact they sometimes attempt to obscure the directory path of the web site using for example URL redirection which often results in relatively unconventional URLs. Thus the encoding of the URL also may be examined block . If the URL has unconventional coding such as character strings in the place of a directory path etc. such unconventional coding may indicate that the URL includes implicit redirection e.g. to an obscured path meaning the URL may be relatively more likely to refer to an illegitimate web site.

In some cases sources of anti abuse information such as anti abuse newsgroups email lists etc. may be searched for references to the URL being analyzed and or for a host domain. IP address and or network block associated with the URL block . A reference in one of these anti abuse sources may indicated that the URL refers to a fraudulent web site.

Another factor that may be considered is whether the URL refers to an encrypted connection such as a connection secured by the Secured Sockets Layer SAL encryption scheme known to those skilled in the art block . For example if the protocol specified by the URL is https the URL generally will link to a secured connection. Alternatively the server hosting the resource referenced by the URL may be interrogated to determine whether the server accepts secured connections for example by submitting an HTTPS GET request to the hostname or IP address referenced by the URL. Other procedures may be used as well. The use of encryption or other security may indicate that the references web site is relatively more or less likely to be engaged in fraudulent activity.

In addition to testing for secured connections the server and or web site to which the URL refers may be subjected to additional tests. Such tests may also be performed as part of a web site server investigation such as the investigation described with respect to . Merely by way of example the active ports on the server may be verified block e.g. using a port scammer and or other diagnostic tools including without limitation those discussed above such as NMAP and Nessus . If a server is listening on high or unknown ports e.g. any port numbered above 1024 the activity of such ports may indicate that the web site is relatively more likely to be illegitimate. In addition the URL may be further evaluated to determine whether it refers to a high or unknown port number which would provide a similar indication . Further if the server listens on ports known to allow security vulnerabilities it may be relatively more likely that the server has been compromised which could indicate an enhanced likelihood of a fraudulent activity.

In some cases it may be appropriate to crawl the web site referenced by the URL and or a portion of that web site such as the referenced page the first ten pages the first level of links etc. block . This procedure is described in more detail with respect to . The downloaded pages may provide additional indications of whether the web site is legitimate. Merely by way of examples the pages can be checked for spelling and or grammar errors block . The presence of such errors particularly if they are relatively numerous can indicate that the web site is not professionally designed and or maintained and therefore is relatively more likely to be fraudulent. Similarly the method may test for the presence of any HTML forms and or the contents of the forms block which may provide an indication of the legitimacy of the web site. The testing of forms is described in more detail with respect to and similar procedures may be used in this context.

The downloaded pages may also be checked to determine whether the pages contain URLs referring to other pages block especially pages external to the web site including without limitation pages associated with a legitimate business and or other fraudulent sites as well whether the pages refer to images hosted on other sites block . The presence of either of these types of references may indicate that the web site is relatively more likely to be illegitimate. Merely by way of example if a web site is spoofing a bank s web site the spoofing site may have external URL links to the bank s actual web site and or may comprise images hosted by the bank s web site so as to appear more authentic .

Often a scammer will move a fraudulent web site and or pages from that site among various servers in an attempt to perform multiple seams and or avoid detection prosecution. Further some scammers purchase or otherwise acquire turnkey scanning kits comprising pre built web pages sites that can be hosted on a server to perform a scam. It follows therefore that it can be useful to provide an efficient way to compare URLs and or web sites from a plurality of investigations. Merely by way of example in some cases the method can include generating and or storing e.g. in a database file system etc. a checksum and or hash value associated with the URL and or page s referenced by the URL e.g. the page directly referenced by the URL and or the pages crawled in block block . Merely by way of example a hashing algorithm may be used to calculate a value for the URL string and or for the contents of the referenced page s . Alternatively a checksum value may be calculated for the contents of these page s . Either or both of these procedures may be used to provide an efficient snapshot of a URL web page and or web site. In some cases a discrete checksum hash may be generated for a URL an entire site and or individual pages from that site . The checksum hash values s may then be compared against other such values which may be stored as described above in a database file system etc calculated for URLs web sites investigated previously block . If the checksum hash value matches the value for a web site previously found to be fraudulent the odds are good that the present site is fraudulent as well.

Returning to information about the domain to which the URL resolves may be analyzed block either as a separate step or as a part of the URL analysis. Further in determining whether a domain is suspicious the domain may be compared to any brand information contained in the body of the message. For example if the body of the message includes the brand name of a customer and the URL resolves to a domain different than a domain owned by and or associated with that customer the URL can be considered suspicious.

Upon the completion of the analysis of any portion of a message as discussed above and or of the message as a whole the data file message may in some embodiments be assigned a score block . Assigning a score to the data file message can provide a quantitative measurement of the likelihood that the message is a phish and in such embodiments a score can be compared to a threshold score such that a score meeting a particular threshold can result in further analysis and or investigation while a score not meeting that threshold can indicate a judgment that the email is not a probable phish. in some embodiments the overall analysis of the message can result in the assignment of a single score.

In other embodiments each type of analysis e.g. the analysis of the header of the body of the URL and or of the associated domain can result in the assignment of a separate score and or these separate scores can be consolidated to form a composite score that can be assigned to the message. Moreover the individual scores for each type of analysis may themselves be composite scores. Merely by way of example each of the tests described with respect to as well perhaps as other tests may result in a score and the scores of these tests may be consolidated to form a composite URL score.

In further embodiments the analysis of each data file or email message can be performed in hierarchical fashion the header information maybe analyzed and scored and only if that score meets a certain threshold will the correlation engine proceed to analyze the body. If not the message is considered not to be a phish and the analysis ends. Likewise only of the score resulting from the body analysis reaches a certain threshold will the URL be analyzed etc.

The score values for various findings can be arbitrary and they can reflect a judgment of the relative importance of various factors in the analysis. Further based on the disclosure herein one skilled in the art can appreciate that the sealing of the scores for various portions of the message and or the threshold scores for proceeding to the next stage of analysis can be adjusted depending on the relative reliability of the analysis of each portion in determining whether the message actually is a phish as well as the desired degree of precision in Identifying possible phish messages. Moreover the correlation engine can employ an automatic feedback loop as described above allowing the correlation engine to be self tuning if desired for instance if a particular factor proves to be a reliable indicator in categorizing a message the correlation engine can automatically begin to give that factor more weight.

To understand how a hierarchical scoring system may be implemented in accordance with some embodiments consider the following simplified example. An email message with a forged header may be accorded a score of 150 and if a score over 100 is required to proceed to the analysis of the body that analysis will be performed. The presence of a customer s name in the body may be worth a score of 1000 and the presence of the term confirm your credit card may be worth a score of 2000. A score over 2500 may be required to proceed to URL analysis so if the message includes both terms it will have a score of 3150 and will proceed to URL analysis. Finally if the URL resolves to an IP address that may be worth a score of 10000. If the threshold composite score for considering a message to be a likely phish is 12000 the composite score of the message would indicate that the email likely is a phish. It should be noted that while for purposes of illustration this example requires the assigned score to exceed the threshold score in other embodiments a score might have to be lower than the threshold score to meet the threshold. That is the required relationship between the assigned score and the threshold scorn is discretionary. It should also be noted that certain factors such as the presence of a white listed term can detract from a score. 

After the analysis of the message data file is complete the message may be categorized as a phish block . In some embodiments a scoring algorithm similar to those discussed above may be used to categorize the message. In some cases the categorization can depend on an overall and or composite score for the message while in other cases the categorization might depend only on a score for a particular section e.g. the body portion the URL etc. . Other methods of categorization may be used as well. For example the mere presence of any particular blacklisted term a URL resolving to a suspicious domain etc. may cause the message to be categorized as a phish. The choice of criteria for categorization is discretionary.

The scoring methodology described above may be applied to the categorization of data including email messages URLs web sites etc. in a broader context as well. Merely by way of example in accordance with some embodiments a similar scoring system could be used to Identity direct email marketing e.g. from a competitive marketing perspective to determine whether a business s products trademarks business identity etc. is being used in an improper manner etc. With the benefit of this disclosure those skilled in the art will appreciate that this robust scoring methodology may utilize a variety of different scoring criteria to analyze such data in a wide variety of applications.

Once a suspected instance of fraud has been uncovered an event may be created in an event manager block . As described above in accordance with some embodiments of the invention an event manager can be a computer systems and or a software application that may be configured to track suspected fraudulent activity. In particular embodiments the event manager may have workflow capabilities such that an event may be created as a container for all available information about a suspect activity. Merely by way of example the creation of an event can be similar to the creation of a trouble ticket known to those skilled in the art whereby the event remains open until a final resolution e.g. classification of the suspect activity as non fraudulent cessation of the suspect activity etc. renders the event moot at which point it may be closed. In the interim various investigative and or responsive procedures including without limitation those described in detail below may be initiated by the event manager automatically and or with user interaction and or a record of the results of such procedures may be stored and or tracked fey the event manager. All of this information may be contained within an event object. As noted above in some cases the event manager can be policy driven such that customer policies influence the way a particular event is handled. The event therefore may be linked to one or more customer policies which can inform the behavior of the event manager and or a technician handling the event.

In general each event may be investigated block . In some cases when an event is opened a technician might evaluate the event e.g. by visiting and or analyzing a web site associated with the event . In other cases a mom rigorous investigation may be performed for instance by an event manager.

In addition an apparent address for the server referenced by the URL may be identified. Those skilled in the art can appreciate that a URL may be associated with an anchor which can be text an image etc. such that the anchor appears to be the address for the server referenced by the URL while the actual URL remains hidden to a casual observer. In other words the user may select the anchor in a web browser email client etc. to be redirected to the server referenced by the URL . In this way the anchor may comprise an apparent address that actually is different than the address referenced by the URL. Both the apparent address e.g. the address in the anchor and the address of the server referenced in the URL i.e. the actual address in the URL may comprise a hostname usually including a domain and or an IP address. In addition the anchor may comprise an identifier for a trusted entity a business name etc. If the apparent address is different than the address actually referenced by the URL and or the apparent address comprises an identifier for a trusted entity while the address actually referenced by the URL is not associated with that trusted entity it may be more likely that the URL is fraudulent and or that the server reference by the URL is engaged in fraudulent activity.

The method may also comprise investigating information about the domain to which the URL resolves block for instance through a domain WHOIS query. This information can show the owner of the domain the assigned name server for the domain the geographic location of the domain and administrative contact information for the domain. In addition information about the IP block to which that domain should be assigned can be investigated block which can elicit similar information to the domain WHOIS query as well as an indication of which IP block the domain should relate to. Further the domain information referenced by the URL can be verified block for instance by comparing the IP address obtained through the DNS query or via the URL if the URL contains an IP address instead of a hostname with the IP block to which the domain should belong. Any discrepancy in the domain information can indicate that the domain has been spoofed in the message providing further evidence that the message is likely a phishing attempt.

At block the server to which the URL refers can be interrogated using a variety of commercially available tools such as port scanners etc. In some embodiments the NMAP application and or the Nessus application may be used to interrogate the server. In a particular set of embodiments these tools may be incorporated into a proprietary application which may also perform other investigation as discussed above to provide more robust interrogation of the server. The interrogation of the server can indicate what services the server is running which can provide some indication of whether the server is engaged in fraudulent activity . For instance if the server is accepting HTTP requests on an unusual port that service may or may not indicate that the server is engaged in fraudulent activity. The interrogation of the server may also show security vulnerabilities which can indicate that the server may be compromised and therefore may be engaged in fraudulent activity without the knowledge of the server operator. In addition the route to the server may be traced in a well known manner providing more information about the server its location and the domain IP block in which it resides.

Interrogating the server can include downloading some or all of the web pages served by that server using for example the WGET command and or any other HTTP GET function block especially any pages that appear to masquerade as pages on other servers spoof pages . The downloaded pages may be analyzed to determine whether the pages request any personal information and or provide fields for a user to provide personal information block . Further downloaded pages may be archived block which can allow a technician and or the customer to view the pages to assist in any necessary human evaluation of whether the pages actually are fraudulently requesting personal information. In some cases a representation of the pages may be saved as described in detail herein.

Finally an event report may be generated block . The event report may include any or all of the information obtained through the investigation including any archived pages. The event report may be consulted by a technician and or provided to a customer to assist in formulating a response strategy. In some cases a redacted version of the event report may be provided to the customer.

Returning once again to the results of the investigation may be reported block for instance by displaying a copy of the event report to a technician at a monitoring center or any other location . Optionally the technician may analyze the report block to provide a reality check on the information obtained in the investigation and or to formulate a response strategy. The customer may be notified of the event and or of the investigation results block by an automated email message phone call from a technician etc. The technician may also confer with the customer block to allow the customer to make a decision with respect to how to respond to the attempted fraud. Alternatively a customer profile may indicate that a specific response strategy should be pursued such that the customer need not be consulted before formulating a response strategy.

If the investigation and or event report indicates that the server is engaging in fraudulent activity the method can include responding to the fraudulent activity. Any such response may be initiated and or pursued automatically and or manually i.e. at the direction of a technician . Responses can take a variety of forms. Merely by way of example the customer customer policy and or technician may determine that an administrative response block is appropriate. An administrative response can include any response that does not involve a direct response against the server. For example one possible administrative response is notifying the ISP hosting the server and or the registrar for the server s domain that the server is engaged in fraudulent activity. Another administrative response could be notifying legal authorities about the fraudulent activity and or preparing evidence for a case under the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy UDRP . If the investigation reveals that the server may have been compromised an administrative response can include notifying the server operator perhaps via contact information obtained during the investigation of the event that the server has been compromised and or providing advice on how to secure the server to avoid future compromises.

In addition or as an alternative to administrative responses it may be desirable to pursue a direct technical response against the server block . illustrates an exemplary method for pursuing a technical response against a server. The method can include parsing a spoofed web page to identify fields in which a user may provide personal information block . Those skilled in the art will recognize that an online form such as an HTML form etc. comprises one or more fields and that those fields generally include a label indicating the information that should be entered. In accordance with some embodiments therefore a set of requested fields from the web page may be analyzed block for instance the label accompanying each field can be analyzed to determine whether the field requests personal information and in what format the information short be submitted. This analysis can include a search for common words such as first name credit card expiration etc. as well as an analysis of any restrictions imposed by the field e.g. data type length etc. A set of safe data may be generated to populate the fields requesting personal information and or any other necessary fields block . In some cases the safe data can correspond to a safe account as discussed above. In any event the safe data can comprise data that appears to be valid and in fact may be valid in that it corresponds to a valid account but that does not pertain to any real account holder or other person. The safe data can be drawn from a database and or dictionary of safe data e.g. fictitious first and last names addresses etc. and or generated algorithmically e.g. account numbers credit card numbers expiration dates etc. and or some combination of the two.

Based on the analysis of the requested fields the safe data can be mapped to the requested fields block such that the data is formatted to appear to be actual personal information for a user. Merely by way of example if a field requests a credit card number safe data representing an apparently valid credit card number e.g. a sixteen digit number starting with a 4 which would appear to be a valid Visa credit card number can be mapped to that field. A responsive message may be generated and or formatted to look like a filled out form from the spoofed web page block and then may be submitted to the server. This process can be repeated as necessary creating a plurality of safe responses.

In many cases a phisher will attempt to filter responses in order to avoid the deleterious effects of safe data on his collection of acquired data to avoid the snare of marked money which is discussed in further detail below and or for other reasons. Phishers may attempt to use a variety of devices to filter received responses. One type of filtering involves the examination and or filtering of responses from a particular IP address and or domain or set of addresses domains the phisher suspects might not be real responses to the phishing scam. Methods of the invention can implement countermeasures including without limitation those discussed below to avoid this type of filtration.

One type of filtration can be loosely termed data verification and it involves the use of various techniques to check the submitted responses for consistency. Merely by way of example if the phisher s web site collects data that is formatted according to a standard which may be an industry standard a published standard etc. the phisher may implement controls which can be software applications and or portable software residing on the phisher s web server in the phish email etc. to check submitted responses for consistency with such standards. To avoid filtration of safe responses therefore the method can implement countermeasures such as identifying and or evaluating any such standards that may be applicable block . For example the method can include evaluating each of the response fields to determine whether any standards apply to that field and if so determining how the standard is implemented. Merely by way of example as discussed above credit card networks have developed standards for ensuring the consistency and or validity of credit card numbers. If a filed asks for a credit card number therefore the method could include identifying the proper standard for appropriate responses. Similar standards exist for bank routing RTN numbers etc. As another perhaps simpler example if a web site requires the submission of an email address e.g. user domain.tld . Other procedures involving the validation of email address are discussed below. In some cases therefore the system may comprise logic and or data structures for identifying common field types and or correlating those field types with the appropriate standard for data submitted in response to those field types.

Phishers sometimes also use one or more embedded tests to validate responses and the method therefore can comprise countermeasures to defeat such embedded tests. Such countermeasures can include without limitation identifying and or analyzing such embedded tests block . Merely by way of example the web server and or the entail message may include portable code such as a Java applet a JavaScript a CGI application etc. and or other devices designed to track identify and or ignore responses not generated as a result of a phish mailing and or sent repetitively. Such devices can include again merely by way of example counters timers cookies hash values and or the like. Identifying and or analyzing such devices can include scanning parsing an email message and or web site for the existence of such code downloading such code and or executing the code in a sandbox to determine how it operates and or reverse engineering the code to determine how responses are validated. As a simple example a web site might set a cookie that identifies a particular computer such that multiple responses from that computer may be identified and or filtered by the phisher. Identifying and or analyzing this device can comprise examining the contents of the cookie so that a modified cookie which could for example change and or remove the identifying information could be sent with each response. In other cases the device might include a counter that is incremented for each access to the web site from a particular computer and that timer might be identified so that appropriate countermeasures could be taken. In yet other cases a timer might be implemented to prevent a plurality of responses being sent within a certain time frame and or a hash algorithm may be applied to responses etc. e.g. to identify the responses.

In other cases a phisher may attempt to validate responses based on information about and or contained in a phish email designed to trigger the response often requiring the response to comport in some fashion with the email to which it responds. Such strategies can be said to involve round trip information that is certain data is sent by the phisher in the email address and corresponding data is expected to be returned on the round trip to the web server. These techniques can be used for example to filter responses that do not appear to correlate to any email sent by the phisher on the assumption that such responses are bogus and or comprise safe data. Accordingly the method can comprise countermeasures to defeat attempts by the phisher to user such round trip information to fiber responses. Such countermeasures can include for instance identifying and or analyzing any such round trip information block . Round trip information may be identified and or analyzed through a variety of procedures.

Merely by way of example a phisher may retain a list of addresses to which a particular phish message was sent and also require responses to include an email address. The phisher can then filter responses by email address such that any responses listing an entail address not include on the list maintained by the phisher are considered bogus. Alternatively the phisher may include a response code in each of the phish messages and require responses to provide the response code then filtering any responses that do not include the response code. In particular cases the response code may be keyed to the day of the phish transmission to the address to which the phish message was transmitted and or any other variable for instance by using portable code in the phish message and or analyzing the round trip information can comprising analyzing such portable code in a manner similar to that discussed above. 

Identifying and or analyzing soon round trip information can include analyzing the phish message and or the response web page in many cases a comparison of the phish message and the response web page will reveal the use of round trip information. Further a collection of phish messages each of which perhaps being collected by a honeypot as described above and or by another method can reveal similarities and or patterns that allow for the identification and or analysis of round trip information. Merely by way of example the recipient addresses on a plurality of phish emails appearing to originate from a common email blast may be compared to find commonalities and or differences in recipient addresses and or domains in response codes in included portable code etc . This comparison can help in the formulation of responses that will not be filtered by the phisher.

In particular cases a phisher may use one or more of the above techniques in an attempt to filter responses. Moreover since phishers often operate their web sites on compromised servers as discussed above phishers often have incentives to make their filtering procedures as lightweight as possible to avoid imposing a significant load on the compromised server which could alert the operator of the server to the compromise for example . Hence phishers often attempt to generalize their filtering techniques to allow for more efficient searching. Merely by way of example instead of filtering for particular email addresses corresponding to transmitted phish emails a phisher may limit a particular spam burst to addresses at a single domain such as aol.com or a plurality of selected domains and require an email address as part of responses submitted to a corresponding web site. Any responses listing an entail address with a domain different than the domain to which the email blast is addressed may then be filtered. This procedure may prove to be significantly more efficient from a computing resources standpoint than actually comparing individual email addresses. The procedures of identifying round trip information and or any other devices may reveal patterns indicating such shortcuts and or these shortcuts may be exploited in forming responses. Merely by way of example if an analysis of a collection of phish emails indicates that a particular blast was directed to users at a particular domain it may be the case that any response using providing an email address in that domain and or appearing to originate from a host in that domain will be accepted by the phisher s filtering procedures.

Hence the method can include ensuring block that responses to be transmitted to the phisher s web server meet criteria identified and or analyzed in blocks and or any other identified validation criteria . Based on the disclosure herein one skilled in the art will appreciate that ensuring the responses meet a given criteria will often be highly on the nature of the identified criteria. Merely by way of example if the criteria is that a particular returned value must conform to an industry standard such as a credit card number for example the method likely would include ensuring that all responses included validity formatted credit card numbers. As another example if analysis of round trip information indicates that the phish email blast appears only to have transmitted messages to users at a certain domain and or ISP the method could ensure that all responses submitted include an address associated with that domain. As yet another example if an embedded test is identified for example by reverse engineering portable code as discussed above the method can ensure that each response will be considered valid when evaluated by that portable code for example by creating responses compliant with the code and or by executing the code on the response before transmission to the web server to test the result .

Hence the method can include countermeasures designed to circumvent any filtering techniques and in particular any content based filtering techniques implemented by the phisher. It may be noted that the procedures discussed with respect to blocks have been illustrated as occurring after responses have been formatted block . In some embodiments however it may be relatively more efficient to perform these procedures at other points in the method such as before generating safe data block and or before formatting responses block .

Safe responses and or any other appropriate response and or request which could include for instance generic HTTP requests other types of IP communications packets etc. may be submitted to the server in a number and frequency determined by a response strategy. For instance a respond to confuse strategy may be employed whereby relatively few safe responses are submitted to the server block . This strategy can have the effect of introducing invalid data into the server s database thereby causing uncertainty for the phisher about which of the data collected actually represents valid personal information that can be exploited and which of the data collected is mere garbage. This alone can significantly affect the profitability of a phishing scam and may be sufficient to prevent the phisher from exploiting significant amounts of valid personal information received from actual consumers. In addition if the safe data is associated with a safe account and the phisher attempts to exploit the safe data the phisher s use of that data can be traced and an evidentiary trail of the phisher s activities can be compiled aiding the identification of the phisher and possibly providing evidence for a civil litigation or criminal prosecution.

If desired a respond to impede strategy can be pursued block . In this strategy safe responses can be transmitted in greater numbers and or at a greater rate. Safe responses can also be sent from a plurality of response computers which can reside in different domains and or IP blocks preventing easy detection by the phisher of which responses comprise safe information and are therefore useless to the phisher . In addition to the benefits of the respond to confuse strategy which are in fact magnified under this strategy the respond to impede strategy may signal to the phisher that his scam has been discovered possibly providing a deterrent against continuing with the scam.

If a more aggressive response is desired a respond to prevent strategy may be undertaken block . The respond to prevent strategy can involve transmitting large numbers of safe responses at a high rate from numerous possibly widely distributed response computers. In fact response rates can be sufficiently high to effectively prevent the server from being able to accept any substantial quantity of real responses from actual consumers or others effectively terminating the scam. This strategy can be pursued until the server slops accepting responses and may in fact be continued in case the server once again begins accepting responses.

Finally in some cases a respond to contain strategy may be employed block . This strategy involves submitting sufficient HTTP requests to a web server operating a spoof scam to effectively disable the server s ability to service requests. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that typical web servers often implement a connection table which tracks and limits the number of HTTP connections the server may service at any given time. In accordance with embodiments of the invention therefore sufficient simultaneous HTTP requests may be submitted perhaps by a distributed systems of computers as described above to fill up the web server s connection table and thereby prevent the server from accepting any more requests. This process may be continued indefinitely until the fraudulent web site is removed. The HTTP requests may comprise safe responses as described above but in this case need not. Any generic HTTP request such as an HTTP GET request generally will suffice to create a connection and thereby occupy an entry in a connection table.

It is worth noting that this technique is different from a generalized attack e.g. the transmission of an overwhelming number of IP packets on the system network from which the online fraud is being perpetrated in that the number of HTTP requests required to fill a connection table generally will not be high enough to have a significant impact on the network infrastructure. Further the system running the web server generally will remain otherwise available it simply will not be above to service HTTP requests. In this way the fraudulent activity may be impaired or prevented without causing excessive collateral damage to network infrastructure etc. Of course a generalized attack of any variety could also fee used to accomplish this purpose but such attacks may be infeasible in some cases e.g. due to ethical and or political considerations.

If desired the use of responsive information may be traced block . As described above safe responses can comprise information such as apparently valid credit card numbers that is not associated with any real user. If the perpetrator of a scam attempts to use such information the use of that information may be traced to identify the perpetrator. Merely by way of example if the customer is a bank or credit card issuer an account associated with a safe account number could be opened for the safe account number could otherwise be monitored and any attempts to access that account e.g. attempted withdrawals or credit card authorizations could be flagged for further investigation. This use of marked money has been used by authorities in other contexts such as providing marked cash to bank robbers then tracing the bank robbers by following the trail of the marked money as it is spend or otherwise distributed. Similar concepts may be implemented in accordance with embodiments of the invention using the technologies described herein.

Sophisticated phishers may also attempt to filter responses according to the origin of the responses. Merely by way of example if a phisher detects multiple responses from a single IP address and or from a range of similar IP addresses from a single domain etc. that phisher may filter responses from that IP address range domain on the theory that a plurality of responses from a single location indicate that someone has discovered his scam and is attempting to identify him submit safe responses etc. Hence the method can include one or more procedures designed to defeat such attempts by the phisher. Merely by way of example one strategy described above involves the use of multiple computers and or multiple IP addresses to transmit responses in distributed fashion. In some cases it may be advantageous to provide a diversity of IP addresses which may be from different address blocks etc. to impede the phisher s ability to identify responses generated according to methods of the invention.

One strategy for transmitting a from a plurality of diverse IP address can comprise acquiring a plurality of diverse IP addresses block for instance by purchasing or otherwise obtaining relatively disposable or temporary IP addresses from a plurality of providers for instance by opening accounts with a plurality of different ISPs. In some cases it may be advantageous to obtain IP addresses associated with e.g. assigned to retail ISPs such as MSN AOL etc. because responses from such addresses may be assumed to originate from consumers often the prime target of a phisher. A retail ISP can be considered any ISP that provides Internet connectivity to consumers as opposed to those ISPs that provide connectivity and or other services merely to businesses. In some cases arrangements may be made with such ISPs simply to use addresses temporarily. The method then can further include assigning each of the plurality of IP addresses to a computer and or other device configured to generate responses e.g. in accordance with methods of the invention and or to transmit such responses to the phisher s web server block . In some embodiments each of these computers may be logged on to an appropriate ISP e.g. the ISP with which the assigned IP address is associated in order to use the IP address such that any responses transmitted by the computers will be transmitted via the ISP. Further in certain embodiments these computers may be controlled by one or more central computers. In other embodiments the responses may be generated atone or mom central computers and then transmitted to the computers assigned the plurality of IP addresses which could then forward the responses perhaps with some modification such that the responses appear to originate from these computers IP addresses.

Another strategy which can be employed in accordance with embodiments of the invention is the use of a megaproxy or similar technology block to provide responses from a single computer or set of computers but wherein each of the responses appears to originate from a different IP address domain and or network block. Examples of such procedures are described in U.S. Prov. Pat. App. No. 60 610 716 already incorporated by reference herein. Using these and similar procedures a group of requests may be made to appear as originating from a variety of sources frustrating the phisher s attempts to filter the responses and or forcing the phisher to block actual consumer responses in attempting to block safe responses generated in accordance with methods of the invention.

Merely by way of example illustrates a system that may be used to submit responses to a phishing scam. The system works by using one or more network blocks e.g. blocks of IP addresses assigned to one or more entities which can include in some cases major consumer ISPs such as Comcast America Online AOL the Microsoft Network MSN etc. The network blocks may be donated by those entities for use in an anti phishing solution. Although the term donated is used herein for ease of description one should not infer that title to the network blocks necessarily is transferred to the security provider or that the blocks are provided without remuneration. In some embodiments for example a security provider may purchase or lease blocks for use in accordance with embodiments of the invention or the blocks may be temporarily loaned to the security provider for such use. In other embodiments the ISP need not even be aware of the purpose for which the blocks are to be used those skilled in the art will appreciate that the allocation of dedicated network blocks from an ISP to a business for that business use is commonplace. 

The donated blocks maybe relatively permanently assigned to a security provider etc. and or may be assigned on an ad hoc basis. Such blocks may be provided by these entities via interior muting protocols and or a record of the donated blocks may be stored in a database for use by the anti fraud system . The anti fraud system can also include a network meet me center which can be any facility that provides an opaque connection between the network blocks and the rest of the Internet and in particular the perpetrator of online fraud . The meet me center can provide the ability to submit a plurality of responses requests e.g. HTTP POST or HTTP GET commands to a scammer s server . By way of example the responses may be similar to the responses discussed above.

The meet me center may comprise a dilution engine which may function in similar fashion to the dilution engines described above. Alternatively the meet me center may be in communication with a dilution engine maintained by a security provider perhaps as part of a system such as the system in and or the system of . Merely by way of example the dilution engine may be a software application that is designed to create and or format the responses requests perhaps in the manner discussed above as well as a mega proxy which can make the responses requests appear to be originating from any of the IP addresses contained within the network blocks stored in the database . In operation therefore the dilution engine may compose many responses requests . As described in the above these requests responses may be formatted to appear as legitimate responses to the phishing scam and or may simply be generic requests designed to occupy the server s ability to service other requests. The mega proxy will forward those responses requests using any appropriate address e.g. an IP address within the blocks stored in the database as described above as the originating address to the spooler s website . As noted above the responses requests can be designed to feed incorrect personal information to the website and or merely to occupy the website and thereby impede its ability to defraud others. The scammer may use a filter such as a firewall application configured to block communications from particular IP blocks domains etc. to attempt to block the responses requests but this will prove problematic for the scammer for one or more of the following reasons.

First since the responses requests will appear to be originating from a variety of different IP addresses and in many cases from a variety of different domains and or ISPs it will be difficult for the scammer to determine which of the responses requests it receives are from the system and which are from ordinary consumers. While in some cases it may be technically possible to determine which responses requests are from the system making such a determination usually will involve relatively expensive equipment and significant processing power add those skilled to the art will appreciate that online baud schemes are often operated by those without the financial resources to invest in such equipment. In addition because many online fraud sites are operated on compromised servers operated not by the scammer but by an innocent third party it often will be difficult for the spooler to marshal the required computing resources to perform in depth analysis at least without alerting the owner of the server to the compromise.

Further even if the scammer is successful at identifying the requests responses from the system and manages to block some of these requests responses the fact that those requests responses often will appear to be originating from major consumer ISPs e.g. the scammer will be in the difficult position of having to block IP addresses associated with the scammer s prime target the average consumer. In this way the system can provide multiple benefits not only making it difficult and or expensive for the scammer to block the requests responses but also using the scammer s attempts to block the requests responses against the scammer by causing the scammer to block network blocks that also include addresses assigned to ordinary users thereby blocking responses bum the very people the scammer hopes to attract.

The method can further include providing a mega proxy such as for example a mega proxy similar to the mega proxy described with respect to and or any other device or software application capable of transmitting IP packets and in particular cases HTTP requests that appear to originate from a variety of different sources block . Providing a mega proxy can comprise situating the mega proxy at a network meet me center which can be for instance a peering facility that provides the ability for multiple ISPs to communicate using interior routing protocols. In other embodiments the mega proxy can be situated elsewhere so long as the mega proxy is able to transmit packets using the acquired IP address.

Once an illegitimate web site is identified block for instance using the methods discussed above a response e.g. an HTPP request may be created using for example the methods discussed above block . The mega proxy then can obtain an IP address for example by searching a database of acquired IP addresses block and transmit the response to the illegitimate web server block such that the response originates from the IP address obtained by the mega proxy. This process may be repeated for a plurality of responses as indicated by the broken line in . In some cases a new IP address may be obtained for each response to be transmitted. In other cases a particular IP address may be used to transmit a plurality of responses. In this manner a plurality of responses which may in some cases comprise safe data as described above may be transmitted to the illegitimate web server.

Returning now to another strategy for responding to an illegitimate web site can implement proxy chaining block . Proxy chaining involves the transmission of response packets through a variety of proxy servers before their final transmission to the phisher s web server. In one embodiment of proxy chaining a fraud prevention system such as the system described above can include connections to a variety of different ISPs and in particular retail ISPs via a plurality of dedicated connections modem connections etc. Responses may be sent through such connections thereby utilizing the proxy servers of these ISPS to actually submit the request on behalf of the fraud prevention system. When the phisher receives the responses the responses will appear to originate from those retail ISPs preventing the phisher from determining and thus from easily being able to block the actual machines front which the responses originated. In another embodiment request may be sent through a plurality of proxy servers perhaps in serial fashion making it even more difficult for the phisher to determine the origination of the responses.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate a proxy cap be used to disguise header information that may be used to identify a computer such as a dilution engine and or a response computer that creates and or formats responses for transmission to the illegitimate web site . In some embodiments the proxies can be used to transmit responses directly to the web site . In such embodiments however the proxies may be identified by a scammer as part of a fraud prevention system since they will be transmitting the dilution responses for example to the server . To prevent such identification the responses may be transmitted by the fraud detection system either through the proxies or directly to other proxies for transmission to the server .

Merely by way of example the fraud prevention system and or an ISP not shown hosting the fraud prevention system may have a peering relationship as is known in the art with one or more data centers which may themselves be ISPs and or hosted by ISPs . The responses may be transmitted to these data centers either through a direct peering connection or via the Internet and the data centers may transmit these responses to the server often through their own proxies .

The proxies like all of the proxies discussed herein can be anonymous proxies. Further in certain embodiments the proxies discussed herein may be distorting proxies which can omit and or substitute false or pseudorandom data into certain fields In HTTP requests which can comprise the dilution responses sited as the HTTP VIA and HTTP X FORWARDED FOR fields thereby disguising the fact that they are serving as proxies and or obscuring the fraud prevention system and or components of that system as the actual sources of the HTTP requests. The data center proxies and other proxies discussed herein thus can serve to anonymize the responses vis vis the fraud prevention system further isolating the fraud prevention system from detection by the server or an operator of a scam on the server .

In accordance with other embodiments of the invention the fraud prevention system may incorporate a private branch exchange PBX system and or any other means of providing one or more available telephone POTS ISDN or other lines in communication with the fraud prevention system . The PBX may be in communication with a modem pool or similar device and thus can be used to provide communication with one or more ISPs as indicated by the broken lines on . In other embodiments other means for providing communication with the ISPs may be used as well . Responses therefore may be routed through one or more ISPs and in some embodiments transmitted to one or more proxies operated by the ISP s which would forward the responses to the server . In some cases one or more of the ISPs may be retail ISPs providing the additional benefit of making the responses appear to originate from consumer customers of the ISPs as discussed above.

In particular embodiments the fraud prevention system may be configured to route responses through a plurality of proxies including any of the proxies depicted on using a proxy chaining technique. Merely by way of example a response such as an HTTP request might be transmitted from the fraud prevention system to a data center perhaps via a proxy where the request is forwarded by the data center s proxy server to another data center or alternatively to an ISP where another proxy server forwards the request to the web server the forwarding between links in the proxy chain can be done via a peering connection modem connection the Internet etc. . This technique can under some circumstances provide more comprehensive anonymizing of the responses making it relatively more difficult for the web server and or a scammer using the web server to identify the source of the responses. Further in some embodiments the proxy servers of the fraud prevention system and or other components of the system such as dilution engines response computers etc. which are not shown on can be configured to distribute a plurality of responses among various proxies e.g. randomly in rotation etc. to further disguise the source of the responses.

Hence various embodiments of the invention provide several different procedures to circumvent filtering or blocking techniques whether based on the content of the responses or the origination of those responses . These procedures which may be used separately or in any combination make it difficult for the phisher to separate responses submitted by actual scammed consumers from responses generated by methods of the invention. In this way the response and or marked money techniques discussed herein as well as other anti fraud processes may be implemented more effectively.

In another set of embodiments of the invention a monitoring appliance can be used to provide notice of a phishing scam or other illegitimate use of a customer s online identity through messages received by the customer s system. illustrates a system that may be used to identify such an event and illustrates an exemplary method for identifying such an event.

Merely by way of example the system of can be configured to capture inter alia phishing events in some cases at a relatively early stage in the phishing scam i.e. when phish messages originally are transmitted to prospective victims and or participants in the phishing scam . The system be configured to operate in some respects similarly to the system described with respect to . It should be noted that the system of may include components similar to those of the system of although for ease of illustration not all components are shown on . A system similar to the system is described in detail in commonly assigned co pending U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 610 715 already incorporated by reference.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that when perpetrating a phishing and or spoofing scam a scammer often will generate bulk email transmissions seeking for example to induce recipients to log onto the scammer s web site which may be engineered to appear to be the website of a legitimate and often well known business such as a bank online commerce site etc. To enhance the scam therefore the scammer often attempts to replicate and or imitate as closely as possible an actual email message from the legitimate business. Hence in many cases certain fields in the message header such as for example the FROM SENDER RETURN PATH and or REPLY TO fields may be copied from and or forged to appear as corresponding headers from an actual message sent by the legitimate business.

Although the inclusion of such false header information may help scammers to confuse the recipients of such messages the false header information may also be used to help detect a potential online abuse such as an attempted fraud. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that when a mail server receives an electronic message addressed to an address at that mail server the mail server will attempt to route the message to a mailbox associated with that message. When there is no such mailbox the mail server often will use one or more of these fields such as for instance the RETURN PATH field to send a bounce message in an attempt to notify the sender of the message that the message could not be delivered to the address specified in the message. When the message s header information indicates that the legitimate business was the sender of the message however as for example when the scammer wishes to make the message appear authentic the bounce message will be transmitted not back to the scammer but instead to the legitimate business.

Moreover because in many cases the bounce message will have appended to it a copy of the original message or a portion thereof sent by the scammer significant information may be gleaned from the bounce message using for instance the methods and or systems described below. And because scammers often send bursts of messages to large groups of unverified email addresses there is a relatively high likelihood that any given burst of messages will include a substantial portion of undeliverable messages. Hence an analysis of messages received by the legitimate business can facilitate the early detection of possible online abuses.

The system of can be used to for this process. In addition to the components described with respect to the system can additionally feature a monitoring appliance which may be located at the site of a customer in particular embodiments. In other embodiments however the monitoring appliance may be located elsewhere including at a monitoring center etc. . In accordance with some embodiments the monitoring appliance may comprise a general purpose computer such as the computers described above for example perhaps with software for interfacing with the customers email system and or for performing other tasks described below including without limitation methods of the invention . In other embodiments the monitoring appliance may be a special purpose machine with hardware firmware and or software instructions for performing these tasks.

The monitoring appliance may in communication with the customer s email system . The legitimate business i.e. the customer may be any entity that is concerned about phishing scams or otherwise would like to be aware of mailings purporting to originate from that business including without limitation an organization that has an online presence and or would be expected to communicate with consumers members etc. via email such as for example a bank an online commerce web site an online auction site etc. . The email system can include without limitation an SMTP server a POP3 server a mail transfer agent MTA and or any other commonly available entail server and or client software. Standard email systems may be used in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. In other embodiments the email system may be specially configured e.g. to integrate with the monitoring appliance .

The monitoring appliance may be operated by the customer and or may be operated by a third party such as a security service provider etc. The monitoring appliance may be situated in proximity to the email system and or may be remote from the entail system so long as it is in communication with the email system . In accordance with some embodiments the monitoring appliance may be in communication with and or integrated with an email gateway MTA SMTP server etc. such that the monitoring appliance has access to every email message incoming to the entail system . In particular cases the monitoring appliance may be embodied by a modification to a standard mad system component so that the monitoring appliance is in fact part of the email system . In other cases the system may be configured so that the email system and or a component thereof sends copies of particular messages e.g. messages meeting certain criteria that might identity those messages as bounce messages to the monitoring appliance .

The monitoring appliance may be in further communication with and or incorporate a fraud prevention and or detection system configured to analyze received email messages including for example a master computer monitoring computer and or any other system components described with respect to . Hence the monitoring appliance may be in direct or indirect communication with a correlation engine such as for example the correlation engine described with respect to and or an event manager such as the event manager of either or both which can be used to analyze email messages including in particular bounce messages received by the email system perhaps using methods described in further detail below. The correlation engine which may be but need not be part of a larger fraud detection and or prevention system may be situated locally to the customer. In other cases however the correlation engine may be located off site. As such the correlation engine may be managed by a security provider and or used to analyze incidents of possible fraud based on data received from a variety of sources including without limitation various customers other data sources some of which are described herein etc.

The following example illustrates one mode of operation of the system . In this example it is assumed that the customer is a bank. A scammer creates an entail message that is addressed to a plurality of addresses some of which the scammer assumes will be customers of the bank. This original message appears to be addressed to a valued customer and to originate from the bank and in fact the return path of the message lists the bank s email system or an address associated with the bank s email system in the RETURN PATH field of the message. The scammer uses a mail server IDS to send this original message to many perhaps hundreds or thousands of addresses culled from a spam list maintained by the scammer or another . Those skilled in the art will recognize that a phisher often will use compromised email servers open relays etc. to send phish emails but for purposes of this example such distinctions are unimportant. Assuming that one of these addresses is the scammer s email server will transmit the message to a mail server associated with the domain for receipt by a user joe user. If joe user is not known to the mail server that mail server will attempt to send a return bounce message to the sender of the original message as discussed above. Because the RETURN PATH field points to the bank s email system however the mail server will send the bounce message to the bank s system instead of to the actual sender the scammer s email server .

When the bank s email system receives this message it can identify it as a bounce message and forward it to the monitoring appliance . Alternatively the monitoring appliance could intercept all such messages before reception by the email system if for instance the monitoring appliance is integrated with and or serve as a mail gateway and or an MTA. In yet other embodiments the monitoring appliance may access the mail system to retrieve bounce messages. The monitoring appliance optionally may include a storage medium which could comprise RAM hard disk one or more databases etc. for storing such messages and or specified portions of such messages information about such messages etc. for example to store messages until several have been received so that messages may be consolidated summarized etc. before transmission and or can be transmitted in batch format. Merely by way of example if a plurality of bounce messages are received and all relate to a common mass mailing it may be more efficient to provide one copy of the original message along with a summary of information e.g. intended recipient of each message summary of differences between messages etc. about the collection of bounce messages. The monitoring appliance may then send the bounce messages and or summary information to a phish detection monitoring system such as the system depicted in which may be embodied by the system of and or components thereof including without limitation a correlation engine event manager etc. The messages may be sent individually in batch format as one or more consolidated messages etc.

In accordance with some embodiments the monitoring appliance may be configured to parse received messages for certain items including without limitation uniform resource locators URL contained in the messages and may transmit only those parsed items to phish detection monitoring system instead of the entire message. In yet further embodiments some aspects of a correlation engine maybe incorporated within the monitoring appliance such that some or all of the analysis of the message occurs at the monitoring appliance .

In particular embodiments the entail system and or the monitoring appliance and or fraud detection prevention system may maintain a log of mail system errors including without limitation a record of bounce messages and or information about the bounce messages e.g. extracted portions of messages addressee of original message etc. . This log can be searched to determine the errors resulting from undeliverable addresses. This information can be used in many ways. Merely by way of example a feedback loop may be utilized such that undeliverable addresses can be used as bait email addresses for other anti fraud operations. For instance if the bounce messages obtained from one or more customers indicate that a particular addresses and or domain is used often by scammers it might be desirable to attempt to register that address and or domain thereby ensuring direct receipt of mail addressed to that address. Such addresses can also be used to plant traceable information for marked money operations as described in further detail above.

At block the customer s email system receive an email message in the customary fashion. In accordance with some embodiments the customer s email system may identify the message as a return message such as a bounce message as described above block . At block the message may be forwarded to the monitoring appliance and or the message may be otherwise accessed by the monitoring appliance . As described above in some cases only messages identified as bounce messages are forwarded to the monitoring appliance. In other cases the customer s email system may be configured to forward all messages or a subset of messages such as all messages from unknown senders etc. . In yet other embodiments the monitoring appliance may be configured to access the customer s email system directly by accessing a mail store a particular email account an email system log etc. such that it may not be necessary for the email system to forward messages to the monitoring appliance. Similarly the email system may be configured to forward relevant entries from a log such as a firewall log an email system log etc. to the monitoring appliance block or alternatively to forward all log entries in which case the monitoring appliance may be configured to parse the log entries for relevant entries . Relevant entries may include any entries that relate to bounce messages etc. In other embodiments as noted above the monitoring appliance may be configured to access such logs directly such that forwarding log entries may be unnecessary.

In some cases it may be more effective to extract relevant portions of messages and in particular bounce messages block for instance in the manner described above. Relevant portions can include without limitation any portions of a message that can be used to identify the original message to which the bounce message is a response as a phish message any portions of a message that can be used to identify the original sender of the message and or any portions of a message that can be used to identify the intended recipient of the message who may be in fact be the target of a phishing scam Merely by way of example the headers of the message any URLs contained in the message and or any relevant text from the body of the message including in particular any relevant portion of the original message reproduced in the body of the bounce message .

Likewise in some cases it may be desirable to compile a summary message for analysis block . A summary message can comprise any consolidated message that includes the information necessary to analyze a group of messages. The use of a summary message as opposed to the messages and or message portions themselves can in some case provide efficiencies in bandwidth used for transmitting messages for analysis processing cycles and or time used in analyzing messages etc. The use of summary messages can be particularly advantageous for example in cases in which the entail system receives a plurality of bounce messages related to a single mass mailing which could be indicated by the fact that each of the plurality of bounce messages each indicates that the respective original message has a similar RETURN PATH or FROM header and or the fact that the respective body portion of each of the plurality of bounce messages reproduces a similar portion of an original message. Various methods for comparing such a plurality of messages such as checksumming hashing etc. all and or part of messages and comparing the checksums hashes etc may be used. Other techniques for comparing messages may be used as well.

In accordance with some embodiments one or more email messages portions of messages and or summary messages as appropriate may be transferred to a fraud detection and or prevention system for analysis block . Similarly log entries or summaries of such entries may be transferred. The transfer can be performed by any suitable methods such as FTP NFS mount database transaction e.g. SQL statement etc. In some cases messages logs and or log entries and or portions or summaries thereof may be stored local to the monitoring appliance before transfer in order to for example allow for batch transfers on a particular schedule and or upon receipt of a certain number of messages etc. . In particular embodiments storing the messages may comprise storing the messages in a database perhaps with fields corresponding to various header fields and or body text etc. such that transferring the messages can comprise a database synchronization. Alternatively the messages may be stored as text files etc. and or the transfer to the fraud prevention system for analysis can comprise importing such files into an appropriate import transaction or series of transactions for a database at the fraud prevention system. As another example the fraud prevention system may be configured to perform the methods described above and or transferring the messages or portions summaries etc. can comprise transferring the messages in and or converting the messages into a format suitable for analysis using such methods as discussed above. For instance the messages may be transferred to a honeypot and processing of the messages might therefore proceed as described above.

Hence the method can further comprise analyzing the message s log s and or log entries block . As noted the analysis of the messages may comprise analysis using methods described above. Similarly if analysis of the messages logs or log entries indicates a likely online fraud the response strategies and or methods described above may also be implemented. Analysis may be performed by the fraud prevention system if for example the messages were transferred to the fraud prevention system and or a component thereof such as a correlation engine.

As noted however in accordance with other embodiments the monitoring appliance might comprise a correlation engine and or analysis of the messages etc. using similar methods could be performed at the monitoring appliance. In such cases the results of the analysis could be forwarded to an event manager and or a dilution engine for similar component which might be incorporated within a fraud prevention system and or might be incorporated within the monitoring appliance for further action as appropriate.

In particular embodiments the analysis of the messages etc. can include identifying the intended recipient of the messages block . This information could be used for example to generate new bait email addresses corresponding to the intended recipient. Additionally the new bait email address could be planted in various locations as described above if desired. Of course based on this disclosure one skilled in the art will appreciate that it might be necessary to obtain a domain name associated with the address and or to create an account with the provider responsible for that domain name such that the security provider would receive all mail addressed to that address. This could be beneficial because by virtue of that address status as an intended recipient of the phish message it is apparent that the address already is target for at least one scammer. Presumably obtaining this recipient email address would not create a conflict with an actual user because the fact that the phish message was undeliverable indicates that the address is not currently a valid address.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration various methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in an order different than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components and or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable media such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Merely by way of example some embodiments of the invention provide software programs which may be executed on one or more computers for performing the methods described above. In particular embodiments for example there may be a plurality of software components configured to execute on various hardware devices. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

In conclusion the present invention provides novel solutions for dealing with online fraud. While detailed descriptions of one or more embodiments of the invention have been given above various alternatives modifications and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without varying from the spirit of the invention. Moreover except where clearly inappropriate or otherwise expressly noted. It should be assumed that the features devices and or components of different embodiments can be substituted and or combined. Thus the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims.

