---

title: Solid-state resistor for pulsed power machines
abstract: A flexible solid-state resistor comprises a string of ceramic resistors that can be used to charge the capacitors of a linear transformer driver (LTD) used in a pulsed power machine. The solid-state resistor is able to absorb the energy of a switch prefire, thereby limiting LTD cavity damage, yet has a sufficiently low RC charge time to allow the capacitor to be recharged without disrupting the operation of the pulsed power machine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514864&OS=09514864&RS=09514864
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09514864
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150211
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 943 567 filed Feb. 24 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to resistors for pulsed power systems and in particular to a solid state resistor for pulsed power machines.

Most pulsed power machines require the use of resistors that are subject to high voltage and high power dissipation. Aqueous electrolyte resistors have traditionally been used in pulsed power systems for fast voltage divider probes charging trigger resistors in Marx banks dummy loads absorbers of reflected pulses and capacitor bank dumps. These water based resistors are simple robust have low inductance are capable of operation at high voltage and high current and are capable of dissipating large pulse energies while preserving their operating capacity. Further the resistivity can be easily changed simply by adjusting the electrolyte concentration. See R. E. Beverly and R. N. Campbell 66 5825 1995 and A. I. Gerasimov 49 5 2006 . However water based resistors have some problems. If the water resistor leaks the water will degrade the dielectric strength of the surrounding oil which is often used as an insulator in pulsed power machines. Also the charge flow through the resistor is limited by the resistivity of the water solution. As the resistivity of the solution increases the total charge through the resistor must be reduced to avoid electrolysis which can generate gas in the resistor. See R. V. Whitely and J. M. Wilson 654 1983 . For these reasons solid state resistors have been pursued for many years as a possible replacement. However most solid state resistor designs have a number of other problems such as inflexibility low power tolerance and low voltage hold off.

The present invention is directed to a solid state resistor for pulsed power machines comprising a flexible string of at least two ceramic resistors an insulating outer shell enclosing the string of ceramic resistors and insulating oil contained within the outer shell and encapsulating the string of ceramic resistors. The solid state resistor has a resistance greater than 50 kohm.

Linear transformer drivers LTDs are being considered for many pulsed power applications. In particular LTDs are being developed for use as the prime power source for next generation petawatt class pulsed power accelerators replacing convention Marx generators. For example thousands of LTD cavities can be used in a series parallel combination to achieve peak powers substantially in excess of that of the present 80 terawatt Z machine. See W. A. Stygar et al. 10 030401 2007 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 679 297 to Stygar et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

An LTD cavity is basically an induction accelerator cavity that encloses an entire pulse forming network that generates an output pulse. The pulse is applied across an insulator that separates the anode and cathode output electrodes A K gap of the cavity. See M. G. Mazarakis et al. 12 050401 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference. shows a top view photograph of an LTD cavity wherein the energy storage section comprises two circular arrays of single ended capacitors. Only the top array is clearly visible in this photograph. The top array is separated from the bottom array by a plastic insulator plate . Each of the top capacitors can be charged to 100 kV maximum charge and the bottom capacitors can be charged to 100 kV. Each pair of negatively and positively charged capacitors are connected in series with a separate switch positioned vertically between them and capable of holding the 200 kV potential difference. For example the switch can be a high voltage low inductance gas switch. See U.S. application Ser. No. 14 099 524 filed Dec. 6 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference. The energy storage section of the LTD can be insulated in cavity oil not shown . is a perspective side view illustration of the basic unit known as a brick comprising two oppositely charged capacitors and and one switch connected in series which defines the period of the cavity output pulse. The LTD cavity shown in consists of 20 bricks and is capable of providing a peak power of 79 GW peak voltage of 108 kV and peak current of 750 kA.

As shown in the capacitors of the array are charged in parallel. The bricks are all DC linked and pulse isolated during charging by charge resistors between the capacitor terminals also shown in . Aqueous electrolyte resistors can typically have values ranging around 1 kohm but higher values are required to quench prefires of a switch without dumping the entire LTD cavity. Although a charge resistance of 1 kohm is sufficient to isolate the adjacent capacitors on a nanosecond time scale as is required for a normal shot it is too low to effectively isolate the other capacitors on a longer timescale as is required in the case of a switch prefire . In particular if the isolating charge resistance is low then a switch prefire will cause all the connected capacitors to discharge through the switch arc. While a higher resistance can limit cavity damage and reduce the effects of switch prefire the resistance is preferably still low enough to maintain a reasonable RC charge time for a given application. It was found that by simply increasing the isolating charge resistance to 50 kohms the switch arc can be quenched after discharging it s brick. The capacitors limit the rate of voltage increase across the arc which also helps the quench. The current supplied by the rest of the capacitor bank is too low e.g. 

However it is very hard to make water based resistors greater than a few kohms. High resistivity water resistors are difficult because they don t tolerate the DC charge current well. This is because resistance values higher than a few kohms require a high water resistivity which limits the amount of current which can be passed through the resistors without causing electrochemical gas formation inside the resistor. In addition water based resistors are a possible source of cavity oil contamination. However solid state resistors can be difficult to implement in pulsed power machines. For one in general their energy handling capacity is less than that of water e.g. the resistor must be able to handle half of the capacitor energy during rapid recharge about 100 J and the full charge voltage of about 100 kV . They are usually stiff and brittle and they do not stand up well to shocks from nearby oil arcs. Often they will absorb oil. If the solid state resistor is heated the difference in the coefficients of thermal expansion in the resistor can lead to mechanical failure. If debris accumulates on the resistor surface it can track easily. Lastly in a high field environment small E field enhancements will often start tracking damage which accumulates over many shots e.g. the resistor must fit in a small space and tolerate high static E field strengths on the order of 50 kV cm .

According to the present invention the solid state resistor can comprise ceramic resistors strung together which conduct through the whole body of the resistor to maximize its energy capacity. Preferably the ceramic resistors have a sufficiently high impulse energy rating e.g. 70 J per resistor so that the total impulse energy rating of the string is greater than the energy stored in the connected capacitor and a sufficiently high impulse voltage hold off e.g. 7 500 V in air . Preferably the ceramic resistor has a coating e.g. epoxy that limits the resistor s exposure to oil. Finally the total series resistance of the string of resistors is preferably greater than 50 kohms.

An exemplary solid state resistor comprising a string of ceramic resistors is shown in . As an example commercial of the shelf W ceramic resistors e.g. RT818A series resistors manufactured by HVR Advanced Power Components http www.hvrapc.com were soldered together to make a series string of 8 resistors. The number of ceramic resistors and the resistance value of the resistors can be adjusted to suit the application. The ceramic resistors can be soldered closely together and in a manner to reduce E field enhancements from the leads. By soldering the string together the string remains flexible and thus able to endure mechanical shock from arcing in the surrounding insulating oil. The resistor can have an insulating outer shell which the oil doesn t penetrate and protects the inner ceramic. For example the ceramic resistors can be enclosed in a flexible polymer e.g. Tygon tube which is flexible keeps debris off the resistor surface adds another layer of electrical breakdown protection and maintains the high quality oil inside the resistor . The oil inside the tube further insulates the high voltage high E field around the ceramic resistors and prevents the resistors from arcing to adjacent components. The oil can be moisture free degassed and particle free transformer oil. For example the assembly can be placed in a vacuum chamber and left to sit at a pressure 

The present invention has been described as a solid state resistor for pulsed power machines. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

