---

title: Adding card to mobile wallet using NFC
abstract: A user enables a communication, such as through a tap, between an NFC-enabled payment or funding card and a mobile device. Card information, such as the card number, type, and expiration date, are read by the mobile device. The user is then authenticated through the user device, such as by entering a CVV code, a PIN for the card, a cardholder name, and/or a billing address for the card. If confirmed, the card is added to the user's mobile/cloud wallet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547857&OS=09547857&RS=09547857
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09547857
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151208
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 757 408 filed Feb. 1 2013 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 9 218 624 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 594 806 filed Feb. 3 2012 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to funding instruments and in particular to adding a funding instrument to a mobile cloud wallet.

Mobile or cloud based wallets are becoming more popular due to the convenience of being able to make a payment or purchase from the user s mobile device or smart phone. Payment and service providers are providing this functionality to users such as through a mobile app on the phone that allows a user to make a payment through a third party payment provider such as Papal Inc. of San Jose Calif. or through a credit card issuer or bank. Typically the user has to add a payment card into the mobile cloud wallet which can be time consuming and inconvenient.

For example the user may have to first access a site of the provider offering the mobile cloud wallet service. This usually requires the user to go to the site via a PC or other computing device and enter log in credentials such as a user name and password. The user may then have to manually enter specific information about the funding card such as a card number expiration date type of card CVV code billing address name on the card and a phone number. This can be especially problematic on mobile devices with small keyboards or keypads or if the user is a country requiring programming by a third party.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to one embodiment a user enables a communication such as through a tap between an NFC enabled payment or funding card and a mobile device. Card information such as the card number type and expiration date are read by the mobile device. The user is then authenticated through the user device such as by entering a CVV code a PIN for the card a cardholder name and or a billing address for the card. If confirmed the card is added to the user s mobile cloud wallet.

As a result a funding card is easily added to a user s mobile cloud wallet through an NFC communication between the card and the mobile device with minimal user data entry.

Once launched a home screen may be displayed at step on the user device. If not already authenticated or logged on through the mobile device the user may be requested to enter log in information such as a user name email address phone number password and or PIN. Some authentication or login information such as the user name email address or phone number may be saved or automatically populated when the app is launched. The home screen may include a tab or other indicator that allows the user to select the option of adding an NFC Near Field Communication enabled card to the user s account. An NFC enabled card allows information contained within the card such as in the form of an RFID or other NFC chip to be communicated to another device that is capable of reading the NFC enabled card. Once the option to add a card is selected the user may be requested such as with instructions on the mobile device display to tap the NFC card with or otherwise bring it is close proximity to including physical contact with the user s mobile device. Note that other forms of communication between an NFC card and the mobile device may be possible where card information is electronically communicated to the mobile device.

At step the user taps the mobile device with the NFC enabled card or vice versa or by other means for the mobile device to read information contained within the card. The card can be a credit card a debit card or other suitable funding instrument embedded with an NFC chip to allow the information from the card to be communicated to an NFC reader or device capable of reading an NFC chip.

At step the user s mobile device which is capable of communicating with an NFC device reads information from the card. Information may include the card number card type e.g. MasterCard Visa American Express Wells Fargo etc. expiration date issuing bank etc. The mobile device may have a built in NFC reader or be adapted to receive an external NFC reader such as through an I O port on the device. In other embodiments additional or different information may be read as desired by the payment provider.

After the desired information is read the mobile device displays the information. In one embodiment only a partial card number such as the last four digits is displayed for security reasons. In another embodiment the complete card number is displayed. The user may revise or edit any information that is not correct.

The display also includes a blank field for a card security code CSC also referred to as Card Verification Data CVD Card Verification Value CVV or CVV2 Card Verification Value Code CVVC Card Verification Code CVC or CVC2 Verification Code V Code or V Code or Card Code Verification CCV . This is usually a three or four digit numerical code on the card. If once the displayed card information is correct the user enters the card security code at step into the blank field such as through the mobile device keyboard keypad or through a voice data entry function.

Once entered the user may send the information to the payment provider such as by selecting or tapping an appropriate button like Add Card Submit etc.

Next at step the user s name and address are obtained such as by the app or payment provider and compared with the name and address associated with the card. For example the user s name and address may be associated with the user s account with the payment provider and stored in a database of the payment provider. In another embodiment the payment provider may request the user to enter the user s name and or address on the mobile device which can be through text or voice. The payment provider may communicate with the card issuer or other service to determine the name and address associated with the card.

Once the name and address of the user and account holder are obtained a determination is made at step whether the names and addresses match. If not an error message is displayed at step on the user device. The user may be given the opportunity enter or re enter information for another determination.

If as determined the names and addresses match the app may send the card request at step to the payment provider along with the user s name and address. This step may be skipped if the payment provider already has this information and has matched the names and addresses. Communications between the payment provider and mobile device may be secure or encrypted for additional security.

The payment provider processes the information to add the NFC enabled card to the user s account. The user may see a processing indication on the user s device. Once completed the user device displays at step a message to the user that the card has been added.

As a result the user is able to quickly and easily add an NFC enabled funding card to the user s account or mobile cloud wallet.

A blank field or box is also shown for the user to enter the card s CVV2 number. The user taps the empty box which then allows the user to enter the CVV2 number. In the user enters the CVV2 number into the box using the virtual keypad on the device. The user may then tap a return Done Submit Add Card or other suitable button to submit the card information.

Once submitted the user sees a processing pop up screen in which shows the user that the information has been received and is being processed. Once processing is completed the user is shown another pop up screen that notifies the user that the card has been successfully added to the user s account.

Once launched a home screen may be displayed at step on the user device. If not already authenticated or logged on through the mobile device the user may be requested to enter log in information such as a user name email address phone number password and or PIN. Some of the information may be saved or automatically populated when the app is launched. The home screen may include a tab or other indicator that allows the user to select the option of adding an NFC card to the user s account. Once selected the user may be requested such as instructions on the mobile device display to tap the NFC card with the user s mobile device. Note that other forms of communication between an NFC card and the mobile device may be possible.

At step the user taps the mobile device with the NFC enabled card. The card can be a credit card a debit card or other suitable funding instrument embedded with an NFC chip to allow the information from the card to be communicated to an NFC reader or device capable of reading an NFC chip.

At step the user s mobile device which is capable of communicating with an NFC device reads information from the card. Information may include the card number card type e.g. MasterCard Visa American Express Wells Fargo etc. and expiration date. In other embodiments additional or different information may be read as desired by the payment provider.

After the desired information is read the user is requested to enter the PIN for the card at step . The PIN may be entered on the user device by text or other secure means. Once the desired PIN is entered by the user a determination is made at step whether the entered PIN matches the PIN associated with the card. The payment provider may communicate with the card issuer or other service to obtain the PIN associated with the card.

If the expected PIN and the entered PIN do not match an error message is displayed at step on the user device. The user may be given the opportunity re enter a PIN another determination.

If the expected and entered PIN match as determined a step the mobile device displays card information and requests additional information at step . In one embodiment only a partial card number such as the last four digits is displayed for security reasons. In another embodiment the complete card number is displayed. Note that the card information may be displayed at other times such as when the user enters the PIN at step . The display also includes a blank field for a card security code CSC the user name for the card and billing address.

The user enters the requested information CSC name and address at step into the blank fields such as through the mobile device keyboard keypad or through a voice data entry function. In different embodiments different information may be requested of the user. Once entered the user may send the information to the payment provider such as by selecting or tapping an appropriate button like Add Card Submit etc.

In one embodiment the information is then compared with what is expected of the user and the card to determine whether information e.g. CSCs names and addresses match. If not an error message may be displayed on the user device and the user may be given the opportunity enter or re enter information for another determination.

If the entered and expected information matches the App may send the card request at step to the payment provider along with the user s name and address. This step may be skipped if the payment provider already has this information and has matched the CSCs names and addresses.

The payment provider processes the information to add the NFC card to the user s account. The user may see a processing indication on the user s device. Once completed the user device displays at step a message to the user that the card has been successfully added.

Note that one or more of the steps described herein may be omitted combined and or performed in a different order as desired. A common step in one embodiment shares the same or similar features described with the corresponding step in the other embodiment.

User device card issuer device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include an application to add NFC card security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate place orders and make payments through the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system including NFC communications with card .

Card issuer device may be a server in communication with payment provider server to communicate card information as discussed above. Card issuer device may also or alternatively be in communication with user device to communicate information as described above. Card issuer device may be maintained for example by a bank that issues card for payment over network . Card issuer device includes a database storing information about cards such as user names addresses PINs security codes etc. Card issuer device may also include a communication application to enable communication with devices in system through network .

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment services to user . In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or card device over network to facilitate the payment services including adding funding cards to an account as discussed above.

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names addresses phone numbers credit card information bank information PINs passwords coupons discounts incentives loyalty points value items or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Funding instruments such as credit and debit cards may also be stored within account information or another part of payment provider server . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with user to make payments for the user.

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from a user device and or card device for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing a request to add card as described herein as well as process a payment on behalf of user . As such transaction processing application may store details of an order or funding card associated with a transaction for the user.

Payment database may store transaction details from completed transactions including authorization details and or details of the transaction including electronic receipts. Such information may also be stored in a third party database accessible by the payment provider and or the merchant.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . I O component may further include NFC communication capabilities such as an NFC reader to allow NFC communication with other devices. An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more hardware processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

