---

title: System, method, and computer program for segregated policy decision making in the context of network function virtualization orchestration in a communication network
abstract: A system, method, and computer program product are provided for segregated policy decision making in the context of network function virtualization orchestration in a communication network. In use, at least one orchestration task is identified to be performed by a Network Function Virtualization Orchestrator (NFV-O) associated with a communication network. Additionally, the at least one orchestration task is assigned to be performed by a network service planning module, the network service planning module functioning to assure the at least one orchestration task is acceptable based on an orchestration template. Further, a policy decision module is queried with contextual information associated with the at least one orchestration task, the policy decision module functioning to assure one or more business goals are considered based on the contextual information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660929&OS=09660929&RS=09660929
owner: Amdocs Development Limited
number: 09660929
owner_city: Limassol
owner_country: CY
publication_date: 20150129
---
The present invention relates to telecommunications and or data communications and more particularly to network function virtualization NFV of telecommunications networks.

Network Function Virtualization is a term or a name of a proposed architecture of telecom services as published by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI in a series of documents available from the ETSI website. NFV uses generic hardware platform and software adapted for the generic hardware platform. Thus NFV creates a network much more flexible and dynamic than a legacy communication network. In NFV based networks a Virtual Network Function VNF decouples the software implementation of the network function from the infrastructure resources it runs on by virtualization. A network service is based on one or VNFs and or Physical Network Functions PNFs their interconnections and chaining definitions. The VNFs can be executed on almost any generic hardware processing facility. Therefore VNFs may be installed removed and moved between hardware facilities much more easily less costly and thus more frequently.

The flexibility of the NFV based network enhances the means available for optimizing the network s capacity and performance. However because of a perceived complexity of NFV based networks it is believed that management software can automate execution functionality but ultimately only human experts can be general purpose network designers. The main goal is to build powerful NFV systems that can perform general purpose network design and customization with safety equivalent to human designers without increased fear over network failures meltdowns.

A system method and computer program product are provided for segregated policy decision making in the context of network function virtualization orchestration in a communication network. In use at least one orchestration task is identified to be performed by a Network Function Virtualization Orchestrator NFV O associated with a communication network. Additionally the at least one orchestration task is assigned to be performed by a network service planning module the network service planning module functioning to assure the at least one orchestration task is acceptable based on an orchestration template. Further a policy decision module is queried with contextual information associated with the at least one orchestration task the policy decision module functioning to assure one or more business goals are considered based on the contextual information.

As shown at least one orchestration task is identified to be performed by a Network Function Virtualization Orchestrator NFV O associated with a communication network. See operation . The communication network may include a Network Function Virtualization based NFV based communication network a hybrid physical NFV based communication network or a physical network.

The orchestration task may include any task associated with orchestration. For example the orchestration task may include an instantiation of a new service. As another example the one orchestration task may be associated with a changing of attributes of an existing service. In this case the task may include re evaluating the existing service.

Additionally the at least one orchestration task is assigned to be performed by a network service planning module. See operation . The network service planning module functions to assure the orchestration task is acceptable based on an orchestration template.

The network service planning module may include any functionality e.g. computer code etc. capable of performing planning and or engineering activities associated with a communication network. In one embodiment the network service planning module may operate based on a current state e.g. associated with a service a VNF etc. .

Furthermore the orchestration template may include any template associated with facilitating the orchestration of an NFV O. The orchestration template is capable of being utilized to support orchestration of a plurality of services associated with the communication network.

The NFV O module may include any module capable of managing data flow associated with the VNFs and or the physical elements of the communication network system. The NFV O module may be operable to preserve service continuity when migrating a VNF or a group of VNFs or a service etc. between hardware units and or when migrating a VNF functionality or the functionality of a group of VNFs or a service between different VNFs e.g. between VNF s of different VNF vendors .

With further reference to a policy decision module is queried with contextual information associated with the at least one orchestration task. See operation . The policy decision module functions to assure one or more business goals are considered based on the contextual information.

The contextual information may include any information associated with a node and or associated service. Additionally the contextual information may be a portion of contextual information that is associated with another node. In one embodiment the contextual information for at least one child node may be derived or obtained from a parent node.

Additionally the contextual information may be based on previously policy decisions made by the policy decision module. Further in various embodiments the contextual information may include an instruction to exclude consideration of specific decisions and or an instruction to prefer specific decisions e.g. based on the contextual information etc. .

The policy decision module may include any functionality e.g. computer code etc. capable of making policy decisions based on contextual information. The policy decisions may be based on any number of policies. For example the policies may include a policy associated with one or more of cost location throughput latency electric consumption or cloud resource load. Additionally in one embodiment the policy decision module may make decisions based on a weighting of a plurality of policies.

In one embodiment assigning the orchestration task to be performed by the network service planning module may include assigning a plurality of orchestration tasks to be performed by the network service. In this case the plurality of orchestration tasks may be associated with a larger orchestration task. Also the contextual information may be associated at least one of the plurality of orchestration tasks and with the larger orchestration task. Thus the policy decision module may be queried with contextual information that is a portion of an overall context.

Further the policy decision module may function to assure the one or more business goals are considered based on the contextual information without requiring additional information associated with any orchestration task. In this way policy decisions associated with the policy decision module are capable of being made independent of decisions of the network service planning module.

Additionally policy decisions associated with a first contextual information received by the policy decision module are capable of being made independent of policy decisions associated with other contextual information received by the policy decision module.

The network service planning module may initiate the query of the policy decision module. In this case the network service planning module may query the policy decision module with the contextual information. Moreover a response to the query may be received. The response may include a policy decision made by the policy decision module based on the contextual information. Additionally a plurality of responses may be received in response to querying the policy decision module with a plurality of the contextual information.

Thus an NFV O architecture may utilize the network service planning module and the policy decision module for workload segregation in the orchestration module. The complete orchestration task may be split among the network service planning module and the policy decision module. The network service planning module and the policy decision module may be a self contained expert with a restricted scope of knowledge and expertise. The individual module may know nothing about the other module.

The network service planning module simulates a networking expert via modeling rules. The role of the network service planning module is to guarantee that the network design is correct from an engineering perspective even if it makes no business sense i.e. doesn t achieve the business goal .

On the other hand the policy decision module represents the customer business goals. The role of the policy decision module is to drive for the best business solution without really having a clue about the network setup e.g. topology devices standards etc. . The policy decision module is very flexible and may be controlled at multiple levels by multiple business people. The policy decision module may be used to frequently resolve inner contradictions in somewhat arbitrary heuristics. The policy decision module may function to achieve business goals even if those goals generate a broken network design which would be vetoed by the network service planning module .

This segregation utilizes the technique that two opposite sides can produce a more powerful result than a centralized solution. The strict separation and the restricted interface between them guarantees the best of both worlds i.e. a correct valid network design that serves business goals the best way all without human intervention.

In the context of the present description the terms network and communication network refer to the hardware and software connecting one or more communication elements including wireline networks wireless networks and or combinations thereof.

The terms network function virtualization NFV and virtual network function NFV are described in a series of documents published by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI and available from the ETSI website. The term virtual network function or feature VNF refers to a particular implementation of a function a feature or a service provided by the network internally within the network or externally to a customer subscriber end user a terminal or a server. A VNF may include the software program implementation of the function or feature or service. The term VNF instance VNF I refers to a particular process or task executing the VNF program by a particular virtual machine or processor or computing facility and or used by a particular customer or subscriber end user terminal or server etc. .

The term service refers to any type of use such as a use case that a NFV based communication network may offer or provide to one or more communication elements. A service may include switching data or content between any number of elements providing content from a server to a communication element or between servers securing and protecting communication and content processing content provided by the customer or by a third party providing backup and redundancy etc. A service may be using partial functionality of a VNF or may include one or more VNFs and or one or more VNF instances forming a service sub network or interconnection model . In the context of the present description the term chain may refer to such service sub network such as a particular plurality of VNFs and or VNF instances associated with a particular service type or a service instance.

The term deployment when referring to hardware elements including processing elements memory elements storage elements connectivity communication elements etc. refer to the configuration or topology of these hardware elements creating the NFV based network. The term deployment when referring to software elements such a VNFs and VNF instances refers to the association between such software elements and hardware elements.

The term deployment optimizations refers to association of software and hardware elements in a manner that satisfies a particular set of requirements and or rules such as load related and performance related requirements or a manner that makes a better use of a particular hardware deployment such as by reducing operational cost.

The terms service deployment optimization or service optimization or chain optimization refer to optimizing the deployment of a service chain i.e. optimizing the deployment of one or more VNF instances making a particular service. The terms chain optimization and service optimization may thus be used interchangeably.

The term session refers to a communication connection between two or more entities that persists for a period of time during which data may be exchanged there between. A session may be implemented and managed by a session layer in the corresponding network protocol. The term session may include a network session and a logical session. The network session may be associated with the devices used to communicate while the logical session may be associated with the communicating parties users and may persist regardless of the communication means that the parties are using.

The term service continuity includes and applies to the terms session continuity and streaming continuity . Streaming refers to streaming media session or service such as sound including voice video multimedia animation etc. The term service usually applies to a group of VNFs or the functionality provided by the group of VNFs but may also apply to a single VNF or the functionality provided by the VNF . The term continuity indicates that the session or the service is not interrupted or that an interruption is short enough that a user is not aware of such interruption or that the interruption does not cause any loss of data or that the loss is handled in acceptable manner e.g. a few packets of speech lost but the conversation can continue etc. .

The term availability or service availability refers to a level of the service or a characteristic of the service in which the service provider should provide the service albeit possible hardware or software faults. For example the service provider may obligate to the customer to provide a particular level of processing power communication features such as bandwidth latency and jitter database consistency etc. Such level or characteristic of the service should be available to the customer even when a hardware component or a software component providing the service do not function properly. Providing availability may therefore require additional resources such as backup resources and or mirroring. Hence availability may also refer to the terms fault recovery and redundancy .

The term fault recovery refers to the process of recovering one or more of the network s services functions and features after a fault whether caused by a hardware malfunction a system crash a software bug or a security breech or fault. A hardware malfunction includes but is not limited to any type of inadequate performance associated with for example power supply processing units memory storage transmission line etc. The term fault recovery also applies to recovering the functionality of one or more VNFs or VNF instances with respect to any of the above. The terms security breech or security fault may be used interchangeably.

The term redundancy refers to any type of component of the network that is fully or partly duplicated provided in standby mode or otherwise available to replace another component of the network when that other component stops functioning properly or otherwise indicates some kind of fault. Redundancy may apply but is not limited to hardware software data and or content.

More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing method may or may not be implemented per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.

The principles and operation of a system method and computer program product for segregated policy decision making in the context of network function virtualization orchestration in a communication network according to various embodiments may be further understood with reference to the following drawings and accompanying description.

As shown in at least one NFV based network is provided. The NFV based communication network includes an NFV management system an NFV orchestration NFV O module and a network service planning module policy decision module according to one embodiment.

In the context of the present network architecture the NFV based network may take any form including but not limited to a telecommunications network a local area network LAN a wireless network a wide area network WAN such as the Internet peer to peer network cable network etc. While only one network is shown it should be understood that two or more similar or different NFV based networks may be provided.

The NFV based network may include one or more computation facilities each including one or more hardware units and being interconnected by communication links to form the NFV based network . At least one of the computation facilities may include the NFV management system . The NFV management system may include the NFV O module and the network service planning module policy decision module .

The NFV O module may be executed by one or more processors or servers such as computation facilities of the NFV based network . The NFV O module may be executed as an NFV O instance or component. The NFV O module may therefore include a plurality of NFV O instances or components as will be further explained below.

The network service planning module policy decision module may be a part or a component of the NFV O module . However the network service planning module policy decision module the NFV O module and the NFV management system may be separate software programs provided by different vendors. In one embodiment the NFV based network may even have a plurality of any of the NFV management systems the NFV O modules and or the network service planning module policy decision module .

A plurality of devices are communicatively coupled to the NFV based network . For example a server computer and a computer or terminal may be coupled to the NFV based network for communication purposes. Such end user computer or terminal may include a desktop computer a lap top computer a tablet computer and or any other type of logic or data processing device. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the NFV based network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television e.g. cable aerial mobile or satellite television etc. 2 etc. These devices may be owned and or operated by end users subscribers and or customers of the NFV based network . Others of the devices such as administration station may be owned and or operated by the operator of the NFV based network .

A network administrator may supervise at least some aspects of the operation of the NFV based network by controlling an NFV infrastructure including the NFV management system the NFV O and the network service planning module policy decision module .

In one embodiment the hardware unit may represent a computing facility of or a part of a computing facility . The hardware unit may include a computing machine. The term computing machine relates to any type or combination of computing devices or computing related units including but not limited to a processing device a memory device a storage device and or a communication device.

The hardware unit may therefore be a network server and the computing facility may be a plurality of network servers or a data center including cloud based infrastructure. As an option the hardware unit may be implemented in the context of any of the devices of the NFV based network of and or and in any desired communication environment.

Each hardware unit or computing machine computing device computing related unit and or hardware component etc. including each communication link between such hardware units may be associated with one or more performance type and a respective performance rating or value where the hardware unit and or communication link is operative to provide the performance value. Performance types are for example processing power cash memory capacity regular memory capacity e.g. RAM dynamic or volatile memory etc. non volatile memory e.g. such as flash memory etc. capacity storage capacity power cooling bandwidth bitrate latency jitter bit error rate and packet loss etc. Virtual machines may run on top of the hardware unit and a VNF may be run on one or more of such virtual machines.

The hardware unit may be operative to provide computing infrastructure and resources for any type and or instance of software component executed within the NFV based network of . In this regard the hardware unit may be operative to process any of the processes described herein including but not limited to any NFV related software component and or process. The hardware unit is operative to process virtual network functions VNFs VNF instances network function virtualization orchestration NFV O software modules and functions data center management software and or cloud management systems CMS etc.

In various embodiments the hardware unit may include at least one processor unit one or more memory units e.g. random access memory RAM a non volatile memory such as a Flash memory etc. one or more storage units e.g. including a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. one or more communication units one or more graphic processors and displays and one or more communication buses connecting the various units devices.

The hardware unit may also include one or more computer programs or computer control logic algorithms which may be stored in any of the memory units and or storage units . Such computer programs when executed enable the hardware unit to perform various functions e.g. as set forth in the context of etc. . The memory units and or the storage units and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

It is appreciated that computer program may include any of the NFV management system the NFV O and or the network service planning module policy decision module of .

In one embodiment the NFV management system may include an NFV O module and a network service planning module A policy decision module B. The NFV management system may include one or more NFV O modules . In various embodiments each of the NFV O modules may include orchestration and workflow management that is responsible for managing i.e. orchestrating and executing all NFV O processes including inbound and or outbound communication and interfaces.

The NFV management system may include a deployment optimization module that enables a user to devise automatic mechanisms for network optimizations. The deployment optimization module may operate these mechanisms automatically and continuously to optimize the distribution of VNFs and their VNF instances in real time or near real time by migrating VNFs and VNF instances e.g. VNF instances of etc. between hardware units e.g. hardware units of etc. .

The NFV management system may also include a chain optimization module . The chain optimization module may be a part of deployment optimization module and may enable a user to devise automatic mechanisms for optimizing the deployment of chains or groups of VNFs and VNF instances. A service provided by an NFV based network is typically made of a particular chain or group of particular VNFs and their respective VNF instances. The chain optimization module optimizes the deployment of chains or groups of services between hardware units according to the requirements and specifications associated with and or adapted to the particular service or chain or a group.

The chain optimization module may operate these mechanisms automatically and continuously to optimize in real time the operation of chains or groups of the VNFs and their VNF instances by re planning their distribution among hardware units and optionally also by migrating the VNFs and associated VNF instances between hardware units.

The NFV management system may also include a service fulfillment module that manages service and resource e.g. VNF instance lifecycle activities as part of the process and orchestration activities. This may include on boarding initiation e.g. instantiation installation and configuration scaling termination software update e.g. of a running VNF etc. test environment and or rollback procedure. Additionally the service fulfillment module may also provide decomposition of an order to multiple network services and the activation of such network service as a single VNF instance or as a chain of VNF instances.

Order decomposition includes translating business orders into a network oriented service implementation plan. For example a business order may be decomposed into a plurality of functions some of which may be provided by different software programs or modules e.g. such as various VNFs instantiated as a plurality of VNF instances across one or more data centers. Performing order decomposition the service fulfillment module may consult the deployment optimization module for the best deployment option to customer order in a given network and resource condition. Performing order decomposition the service fulfillment module may then initiate the service including all its components. Order decomposition may be performed in several locations across an NFV O hierarchy. For example initial decomposition may be performed in the root of the NFV O and then further decomposition may be performed in the relevant data centers.

In one embodiment an activation and provisioning module may provide the plan for activation and provisioning of the service to the orchestration and workflow management . The activation and provisioning module may also provide feedback on fulfilment status to an upper layer. This upper layer may include the business support services BSS .

The NFV management system may also include an assurance module and a service management module capable of gathering real time data on network elements status and creating a consolidated view of services and network health. The assurance module includes assurance functionality and may interact with the service management module to perform assurance related lifecycle management procedures. Lifecycle management can be also triggered by other modules policies manual intervention or from the VNFs themselves etc. The assurance module and the service management module may also trigger events associated with lifecycle management and faults. The assurance module and the service management module may monitor the health of the network and may execute fault recovery activities.

The assurance module and the service management module provide the ability to monitor services status and performance according to the required criteria. The assurance module and the service management module may also interact with the network infrastructure e.g. including computing storage and networking etc. to receive the required information analyze the information and act upon each incident according to the defined policy. The assurance module and the service management module are able to interact with analytics to enrich a policy assurance module. Interfaces may also be provided for implementation by an external system.

The NFV management system may also include a policy management module that enables a user to define and configure offline and or real time policy for controlling VNF and service related rules. The policy management module may contain the preconfigured policies and activities as well as selection rules for the NFV O process to determine the preferred policy or activity to be performed for a particular process event. The policy management may be multi layered including vendor policy service policy and operator policy etc. The policy mechanism may trigger the suitable policy layer vendor service operator .

The NFV management system may also include an administration module that provides an overall view of the network manual lifecycle management and intervention and manual system administration and configuration. The administration module may be operable to enable a user such as an administrator e.g. administrator of etc. to manage view and operate the NFV O system. The administration module may also provide a view of the network topology and services the ability to perform specific activities such as manual lifecycle management and changing service and connectivity configuration.

The NFV management system may also include an inventory management module that maintains a distributed view of deployed services and hardware resources. Inventory catalogues may reflect the current instantiation and allocation of the resources and services within the network mapped into products and or customer entities.

The NFV management system may also include a big data analytics module that analyzes network and service data to support network decisions involving services and subscribers to improve network performance based on actual usage patterns. The big data analytics module may also generate what if scenarios to support business oriented planning processes. Additionally the big data analytics module may function to analyze and evaluate the information for various planning aspects e.g. Virtual Network Capacity Planning Data Center Capacity Planning Value based planning Cost analysis for network deployment alternatives etc. deployment and management e.g. Guided Operator Recommendations What if scenario analysis and simulation application rapid elasticity and resource usage optimization etc. and may support business oriented planning processes.

The NFV management system may also include a catalog module may include records defining various aspects of the network such as products services and resources such as hardware units and VNFs e.g. a VNF directory etc. . The catalog module may include a collection of centralized hierarchical information repositories containing resource service and product definitions with their relationship versioning and or descriptors etc. Such records may include templates enabling a user such as an administrator to define particular network components such as resources products services etc. A resource template may define resources descriptors attributes activities procedures and or connectivity etc. A service template may define a service variation from resource building blocks. A product template may define parameters of a sellable product e.g. prices rating etc. based on service composition e.g. in one embodiment this may be part of a BSS catalogue .

The inventory management module the big data analytics module and or the catalog module may support multiple data centers multiple CMSs and provide a centralized view across the infrastructure. The inventory management module the big data analytics module and or the catalog module may also support hybrid networks and services maintaining both physical and virtual resources.

The NFV management system may also include an accounting and licensing module that may be operable to record and manage network software usage data for commercial purposes including licensing accounting billing and reconciliation of services with subscribers and providers. The accounting and licensing module may manage licensing and usage of virtual network applications including the ability to support complex rating schemes based on various parameters such as CPU memory data etc. The accounting and licensing module may enable users to define the pricing of particular VNF modules and provide settlement with vendors. The accounting and licensing module may also enable the evaluation of internal costs of services provided within the network for calculating return on investment ROI .

The NFV management system may also include a fault recovery module otherwise named disaster recovery planning module or DRP etc. that enables a user to plan and manage disaster recovery procedures for the NFV O and or the entire network.

The NFV management system may also include a security management module that provides the authentication authorization and accounting services of application security across the network. The security management module may include for example an authentication module and function. In one embodiment the authentication module and function e.g. including identity management etc. may authenticate the identity of each user defined in the system. Each user may have a unique user identity and password. The system may support password based authentication with flexible password policy. Integration with external authentication providers may be done via additional system enhancements. The authorization module and function may support a role based access control RBAC mechanism where each user is assigned with one or more roles according to the business needs based on the least privileges concept e.g. standard or administrator roles . In one embodiment the accounting and licensing module may provide an audit of security events such as authentication or login events.

As an option the security management module may use rules to protect sensitive information. For example such rules may be used to ensure the data accessed is used for the specific purposes for which it was collected sensitive information is encrypted when in storage transit and masked truncated on display and logs and that the entire security system is deployed in the customer s intranet network i.e. behind network infrastructure measures in an independent domain etc.

In one embodiment the NFV management system may further include a Secure Development Life Cycle SDLC module that ensures that security aspects are handled during a project s life cycle such as security design security testing etc.

As shown further in the NFV management system may include a service planning module . The service planning module may be used by a communication service provider CSP sales representative enterprise and or technician as part of selling engagement process with enterprise SMB customers.

The service planning module may also provide the ability to interact with catalogues customer data network and ordering systems to provide online network service proposals for the enterprise customers with ability to quote update the proposal validate the serviceability and network inventory and once done provide the service order for activation using the northbound interface.

The network service planning module A policy decision module B may also be part of the NFV O module .

The network service planning module A and the policy decision module B are operable for segregated policy decision making in the context of network function virtualization. In operation at least one orchestration task is assigned to be performed by the network service planning module A the network service planning module A functioning to assure the at least one orchestration task is acceptable based on an orchestration template. Further the policy decision module B is queried with contextual information associated with the orchestration task the policy decision module B functioning to assure one or more business goals are considered based on the contextual information.

NFV orchestration is fundamentally different and order of magnitude more complex than IT orchestration. Networking is all about heterogeneity and about peer to peer interoperability that span many standards management facilities and vendor boundaries.

To date it has been believed that management software can execute but only human experts can be general purpose network designers. The main concern is that powerful NFV systems could lead to network failures meltdowns. The network service planning module A and a policy decision module B address these issues.

The NFV O architecture utilizing the network service planning module A and the policy decision module B for workload segregation in the orchestration brain . The complete orchestration task may be split among the network service planning module A and the policy decision module B.

Both of these modules may be a self contained expert with a restricted scope of knowledge and expertise. The individual module may know nothing about the other module.

The network service planning module A simulates a human networking expert via modeling rules. Its role is to guarantee that the network design is correct from an engineering perspective even if it makes no business sense i.e. doesn t achieve the business goal .

The policy decision module B represents the customer business goals. Its role is to drive for the best business solution without really having a clue about the network setup e.g. topology devices standards etc. . It is very flexible and may be controlled at multiple levels by multiple business people. This module may be used to frequently resolve inner contradictions in somewhat arbitrary heuristics. The policy decision module B may function to achieve business goals even if those goals generate a broken network design which would be vetoed by the network service planning module A .

This segregation utilizes the technique that two opposite sides can produce a more powerful result than a centralized solution. The strict separation and the restricted interface between them guarantees the best of both worlds i.e. a correct valid network design that serves business goals the best way all without human intervention.

The transitive nature of this bilateral relationship achieves an overall solution that s correct from a networking perspective operational installed and one that serves business goals all without any human supervision or interaction.

The NFV management system may also include east west APIs that include various domains activities interfaces including an information source to a big data repository and interaction capability with a physical network system OSS .

Northbound APIs provides application programming interfaces APIs to various external software packages such as business support system BSS for service order fulfilment cancel and update activities status notification resource inventory view monitoring system assurance system service planning tool administration tool for system view and configuration and big data repository etc.

Further the southbound APIs may provide APIs for external software packages such as CMS including service and VNFs lifecycle activities receiving from the infrastructure status and monitoring information for upstream system and activities e.g. assurance an SDN Controller or other connectivity system to configure inter and intra data center connectivity an EMS to configure the VNF and a VNF for a direct configuration.

As shown in the NFV based network may include hardware units connected via transmission lines and VNFs implemented as software programs installed in hardware units . Some of the hardware units may be directly connected to a customer. The customer may be a subscriber an end user or an organization represented herein as a terminal or a server or a plurality of terminals and or servers . The NFV based network may also include a NFV management system an NFV orchestration NFV O and an network service planning module policy decision module which may all represent elements described in the context of the previous figures etc. .

As shown further in several typically different VNFs may be installed in the same hardware unit . Additionally the same VNF may be installed in different hardware units .

A VNF may be executed by a processor of the hardware unit in the form of a VNF instance . Therefore a particular VNF installed in a particular hardware unit may be incarnated in e.g. initiated executed as etc. any number of VNF instances . The VNF instances may be independent of each other. Additionally each VNF instance may serve different terminals and or servers . The NFV based network connects to and between communication terminal devices that may be operated by one or more customers subscribers and or end users.

It is appreciated that a network operator may manage one or more services deployed in the customer s premises. Therefore some of the hardware units may reside within the premises of the network operator while other hardware units may reside in the customer s premises. Similarly a server such as server computer of may reside in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises. Consequently when the network operator provides and or manages one or more services for a customer s terminal devices such as a server computer the NFV based network of the network operator may directly manage the VNFs providing the services and their VNF instances .

In such situation the NFV based network may manage the services irrespectively of the location of the terminal devices e.g. the server computer etc. whether in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises. In other words the NFV based network may be managing the VNFs and the VNF instances providing the services as well as the terminal devices e.g. the server computer etc. being co located within the same computing device e.g. the hardware unit etc. whether in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises or in a commercial cloud or any other place.

A service provided by the communication network may be implemented using one or more VNFs. For example the service may be a group or a chain of interconnected VNFs. The VNFs making the group or the service may be installed and executed by a single processor by several processors on the same rack within several racks in the same data center or by processors distributed within two or more data centers. In some cases chain optimization may be employed by optimizing the deployment of a service in a communication network using network function virtualization and to optimizing the deployment of a group or a chain of virtual network functions in the NFV based network . Therefore the term chain optimization refers to the planning and or managing of the deployment of VNFs making a chain or a group of VNFs providing a particular service.

For example shows a first service including the VNFs and their respective VNF instances and and a thick line. In this example the group or chain of the VNFs making first service are connected as a chain of VNFs . However the VNFs making a service may be connected in any conceivable form such as a star tree root tree branch mesh etc. including combinations thereof. It is noted that the VNFs may be executed by two or more VNF instances such as VNF .

The deployment of the group or chain of the VNFs making the first service is therefore limited by constraints such as the capacity of the communication link bandwidth and or latency delay .

A VNF may have a list of requirements or specifications such as processing power cash memory capacity regular memory capacity e.g. RAM dynamic or volatile memory etc. non volatile memory e.g. such as flash memory etc. capacity storage capacity power requirements cooling requirements etc. A particular VNF instance providing a particular function e.g. to a particular customer entity etc. may have further requirements or modified requirements for example associated with a particular quality of service QoS or service level agreement SLA . Such requirements may include maximum latency or delay average latency and maximum variance latency jitter maximal allowed packet loss etc. Other requirements may include service availability redundancy backup provisions for roll back and or recovery fault tolerance and or fail safe operation etc.

A service made of a chain or a group of VNFs and their VNF instances may have a similar list of requirements or specifications covering the service as a whole. Therefore such requirements or specifications may imply affect or include requirements or specifications regarding communication links between the VNFs and or the VNF instances . Such requirements or specifications may include bandwidth latency bit error rate and or packet loss etc. Such communication requirements or specifications may further impose deployment limitations or constraints requiring particular VNFs and or VNF instances to reside in the same data center or within the same rack or even in the same computing device for example sharing memory or being executed by the same processor. Security measures may add further requirements or specifications such as co location of some of the VNFs and or the VNF instances .

In the context of the NFV based network has a hierarchical structure. There may be at least four aspects of the hierarchical structure of the NFV based network . The networking or traffic aspect refers to the arrangement of the transmission lines between the hardware units . The processing aspect refers to the arrangement of the hardware units . The software aspect refers to the arrangement of the VNFs . The operational aspect refers to the arrangement of the VNF instances .

One aspect of the optimization process in an NFV based network is that it may be based on real time needs rather than long term statistically anticipated needs. One potential limitation on network reconfiguration in NFV based networks is that network configuration does not result in a deterioration beyond acceptable level of any of the current services. The NFV deployment module e.g. module of etc. may function to enable and manage migration of services between the hardware units the VNFs and the VNF instances in real time without affecting or with a minimal effect on the availability of a service and while securing service and session continuity.

In the context of the current description the term continuous means that the deployment optimization module and or a chain optimization module e.g. the chain optimization module of etc. performs the relevant optimization task or process in run time or real time or online or on the fly or repetitively and without adversely affecting the network s functionality and its services.

Unlike a legacy network the NFV based network may have two topologies the topology of the hardware devices and the topology of the VNFs the distribution of VNFs among the hardware devices . The topology of the hardware network is relatively stable while the VNF topology can be optimized in real time. Another benefit of the NFV based network is that modifying the software topology e.g. the distribution of VNFs among the hardware devices is much less costly than any modification of the hardware topology. However any modification of the network has its cost including the cost of making such modification possible. Added cost may result from the need to process the modification of the topology and the re distribution of VNF instances and to maintain excess resources for such purpose.

Thus in some cases it may be desired to localize the NFV O and particularly the deployment optimization processes associated with the deployment optimization module and the chain optimization module to reduce the cost and simultaneously to secure the possibility to expand the scope of the network managed by these processes if needed.

As shown the planning module has context information from multiple nodes in the tree . This context information is used to generate a summary of information derived from all relevant context information. This information is passed to the policy decision module . The policy decision module utilizes this information to make a decision in isolation from the planning module .

Thus the planning module summarizes all relevant context information without any ability to make a decision. The policy decision module utilizes this summary without knowing how details in the summary were derived to make a decision thereby operating in a segregated manner from the planning module .

Coupled to the network is a plurality of devices. For example a server computer and an end user computer may be coupled to the network for communication purposes. Such end user computer may include a desktop computer lap top computer and or any other type of logic. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television etc.

As shown a system is provided including at least one central processor which is connected to a communication bus . The system also includes main memory e.g. random access memory RAM etc. . The system also includes a graphics processor and a display .

The system may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer programs or computer control logic algorithms may be stored in the main memory the secondary storage and or any other memory for that matter. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform various functions as set forth above for example . Memory storage and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

