---

title: Electronic information caching
abstract: Electronic information is made available to access requestors based on anticipated demand. Electronic information stored on a first storage medium is identified for transport. A determination is made to store the electronic information on a second storage medium that is more accessible to the access requestors. The determination is based on an anticipated demand of the access requestors for the electronic information. The anticipated demand is determined based at least on information that is not particular to any single access requestor. The electronic information then is stored on the second storage medium and the access requestors are provided access to the electronic information from the second storage medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553825&OS=09553825&RS=09553825
owner: AOL INC.
number: 09553825
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150327
---
This application is a continuation of pending U.S. application Ser. No. 14 263 502 now allowed filed Apr. 28 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 276 586 filed Mar. 6 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 751 599 issued Jun. 10 2014 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 750 027 filed Dec. 29 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 039 683 issued May 2 2006 which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 234 996 filed Sep. 25 2000 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Inter networked computer systems allow users to remotely access electronic information. These users referred to as access requestors sometimes experience delays in obtaining access to electronic information that concurrently is being accessed by one or more other access requestors within a short time period. For example when the Independent Counsel s Report on the President was initially made available on line a large number of access requests were made within a short period of time resulting in delays and failed requests.

In one general aspect electronic information caching may make electronic information more readily available to an access requestor based on an anticipated demand for that information. When requests for selected electronic information stored on a first storage medium are anticipated the selected electronic information is accessed and duplicated on a second more accessible storage medium. The access requestor then is provided with access to the selected electronic information on the second storage medium if it is available. Otherwise the access requestor is provided with the selected electronic information from the first storage medium.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the electronic information can be made more accessible in a number of ways such as by selecting a second storage medium that is either physically logically or electronically more proximate to the access requestor than the first storage medium. In addition the first storage medium may be on a central server and the second storage medium may be on a distributed server. The electronic information may be stored in a database on the first storage medium. Anticipating future requests for access to selected electronic information may be based on past requests for access to the same or related electronic information by access requestors past requests for access to non related electronic information by access requestors past requests for access to related non electronic information by access requestors or past requests for access to non related non electronic information by access requestors. The relevant access activity that is measured may include the frequency or volume of requests for access to the selected electronic information. Anticipating requests for access also may determine the file size to assign a cache value based on the file size and the frequency of requests for the selected electronic information. Thus selected electronic information with a higher cache value is more likely to be anticipated. Anticipating requests for access may also take into account criteria that are unrelated to past access requests. Requests for access may be anticipated before after or while an access request is made.

Implementations of the above features may include methods systems and or computer software. The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the following description. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Referring to a method for making electronic information readily available to an access requestor includes anticipating requests for electronic information step accessing electronic information for which a high volume of requests is anticipated step duplicating the accessed electronic information step and making the duplicated electronic information accessible to an access requestor step . In general electronic information includes one or more of text images movies music or other sounds animations 3D virtual worlds and links to other objects.

Anticipating requests for electronic information step is generally performed based on one or more criteria such as past requests for information popularity of the subject matter feedback by access requestors regarding topics of interest or other criteria formal or informal polling data and survey research. For example requests for electronic information may be anticipated by collecting past requests for information made by an access requestor. The past requests for information may be obtained by using hardware or software capable of storing information concerning online usage such as a cookie. A cookie is software stored on a computer that is capable of monitoring the activities of a web browser on that computer. The cookie reports information back to the web server indicating each time the browser requests a page from the web server.

Thus a profile of information can be built indicating the browser destinations of a specific access requestor and electronic information selected by that access requestor. In this way hobbies pursuits and other topics of interest can be anticipated for the access requester by analyzing collected data usage patterns and past requests for information. Another example of anticipating requests for electronic information includes compiling information concerning the popularity of certain subject matter for one or more classes of access requestor. For example senior citizens and car enthusiasts are each classes of persons having identifiable yet common interests. Based upon such common interests requests for electronic information can be anticipated for the class members. Feedback on topics of interest for individuals or classes of access requestors can be obtained using conventional or electronic means. For example email messages that ask specific questions or that include survey requests can be sent to access requestors. Such information can also be obtained by using regular mail for delivery to access requestors or by telephone contact with access requestors.

In this manner the anticipation of requests for electronic information may be based on criteria unrelated to past requests for electronic information. Moreover anticipation of requests for certain electronic information may occur before after or concurrently with requests for access to the electronic information. When anticipating based on past requests for information the past requests for information may be measured by the frequency or volume of access requests. Additionally a cache value may be assigned to the selected electronic information based on its file size and the frequency of requests for the selected electronic information. In this implementation selected electronic information with higher cache values are more likely to be anticipated. The past requests may be for the same information related information or information not related to the requested electronic information and for information in an electronic format or otherwise.

Accessing requested electronic information step generally includes identifying the selected electronic information from within electronic information that is stored on a storage medium. Accessing electronic information also includes reading or otherwise making the selected electronic information available from within the source storage medium. Examples of storage media include a magnetic disk such as for example an internal hard disk and removable disk magneto optical and optical disks and compact disks whether in read only format such as for example CD ROM or in rewritable format such as for example rewritable CD and DVD. They may be contrasted with memory devices such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices.

Duplicating electronic information step generally includes copying the identified electronic information from the source storage medium to a destination storage medium that is more accessible to an access requestor. Storage of the electronic information on the destination storage medium generally enables faster access to electronic information than would otherwise be available if the electronic information remained stored only on the source storage medium.

Providing an access requestor with access to the duplicated electronic information step generally includes making the electronic information stored on the destination storage medium available to the access requestor. For example an access requestor may be allowed to identify read copy and or perceive the existence of the electronic information on the destination storage medium. When the access requestor is allowed to perceive the electronic information the access requestor may be sent a notice that the copied electronic information is available at the destination storage medium. The access requestor also may be provided with a link to the electronic information on the destination storage medium. This link may be perceivable to the access requestor e.g. displayed on the screen of the access requestor . If the access requestor is unable to access the selected information from the destination storage medium than providing an access requestor with access also may include making the selected electronic information available to the access requestor from the source storage medium.

The anticipating module generally includes a segment of software code that is designed to predict requests for electronic information stored on an accessible source storage medium. For example the software code may be designed to store requests for electronic information or to access a data storage device located on the Web or otherwise that stores requests for electronic information. The software may be designed to measure the stored data to determine the rate or number of requests for the electronic information and the file size of the electronic. The software also may calculate a cache value based on the number of requests and the file size and to electronically flag the electronic information as being in high demand by access requestors where the cache value or frequency of requests for the electronic information is high. The anticipating module may predict requests for electronic information based on any or all of the criteria described with reference to step of .

The electronic information reader generally includes a segment of software code capable of identifying requested electronic information from within the source storage medium. The electronic information reader may identify requested electronic information based on any or all of the criteria described with reference to step of .

The electronic information copier generally includes a segment of software code capable of copying electronic information from the source storage medium to a destination storage medium that is more accessible to an access requestor. The electronic information copier may copy electronic information based on any or all of the criteria described with reference to step of .

The access providing module generally includes a segment of software code capable of making available to an access requestor the electronic information that has been stored on a destination storage medium. The access providing module may provide access to electronic information based on any or all of the criteria described with reference to step of . The access providing module may also determine whether access to the electronic information has been made available to the access requestor from the destination storage medium otherwise the electronic information may be provided to the access requestor from the source storage medium.

Relative to the access requestor the destination storage medium may be less remote than the source storage medium. The destination storage medium may be logically physically or geographically closer to the access requestor than the source storage medium. For example the destination storage medium may be storage on a distributed server and the source storage medium may be storage that is accessible to the access requestor through the distributed server. Storage of the electronic data on the destination storage medium generally results in faster or more efficient access to desired electronic information than if the information was stored on the source storage medium.

While described as segments of software code any or all of steps may be implemented as hardware. For instance when implemented using hardware the electronic information reader may include e.g. a magnetic disk reader a magneto optical disk reader an optical disk reader or a CD ROM reader. Similarly when implemented using hardware the electronic information copier may include a magnetic disk copier a magneto optical disk copier an optical disk copier or a CD ROM copier.

In addition to illustrate how the destination and source medium are interrelated examples of various hardware configurations of a system for making electronic information more readily available to an access requestor are shown in . shows a computer system used by an access requestor that includes a source storage medium and a destination storage medium . As shown from the destination storage medium is logically and electronically closer to the access requestor than the source storage medium . Thus storing the electronic information on the destination storage medium allows the access requestor to access the electronic information faster than if the information was stored on the source storage medium .

The method for making electronic information readily available to an access requestor can be embodied on one or more computer systems . For example the computer system illustrated in represents a typical hardware setup for executing software capable of performing one or more of the steps of a process for making electronic information readily available to an access requestor e.g. the process shown by . As such the computer system of allows an access requestor to perform tasks such as communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic information. In this manner the computer system of may be programmed with computer readable instructions to enable content to be perceived e.g. viewed without being captured e.g. copied saved or printed .

The system includes various input output I O devices mouse keyboard display and a general purpose computer having a central processor unit CPU an I O unit a memory device and a storage medium that stores data and various programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs . The computer system may also include a communications card or device e.g. a modem or network adapter for exchanging data with a network through a communications link e.g. a telephone line .

As shown in using a network an access requestor of a computer system can access electronic content or other resources at a source or destination storage medium or by accessing other client systems e.g. personal or laptop computers or at one or more server systems . An example of a server system is a distributed computer that provides subscribers with online computer data and services such as e mail e commerce chat rooms Internet access electronic newspapers and magazines etc.

Users of a host computer s online services typically communicate with one or more central server systems through client software executing on their respective client systems . In practice server system is not typically a single monolithic entity but rather is typically a network of interconnected server computers possibly physically dispersed from each other each dedicated to its own set of duties and or to a particular geographical region. In such a case the server computers are interconnected by a network of communication links.

Client systems run client software that enables communication with corresponding software running on the server system . The client systems communicate with the server system through various channels and lines such as a modem connected to a telephone line a direct Internet connection using a transfer protocol such as TCP IP Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol cable integrated services digital network ISDN or other transfer protocols. The server system is responsible for receiving input from the client systems manipulating the collective body of input information and possibly information from other sources into a useful format and retransmitting the formatted information back to one or more clients for output on an output device such as a display screen.

A browser is an example of client software that enables access requestors to access and view electronic content stored either locally or remotely such as in a network environment of interconnected computer systems e.g. delivery network of . The browser typically is used for displaying documents described in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML . It is generally stored on servers connected to a network such as the Internet. An access requestor instructs the browser to access an electronic document e.g. webpage by specifying a network address e.g. Uniform Resource Locator URL indicating the location of a desired webpage. In response the browser contacts the corresponding server hosting the requested webpage retrieves the one or more files that make up the webpage and then displays the webpage in a window on the access requestor s computer screen.

Referring to another implementation of a system capable of being programmed e.g. according to the process shown by for making electronic information readily available to an access provider is described. In a communications system is delivering and exchanging data between a client system and a host system through a communications link . The client system typically includes one or more client devices and or client controllers . For example the client system may include one or more general purpose computers such as for example personal computers one or more special purpose computers such as for example devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the host system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The client system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as e.g. one or more Local Area Networks LANs and or one or more Wide Area Networks WANs .

The client device is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a client controller . The client device is connected to the client controller by a wired or wireless data pathway capable of delivering data.

The client device and client controller each typically includes one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a client device is a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. An example of client controller is a software application loaded on the client device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the client device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client device to interact and operate as described herein. The client controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client device .

The communications link typically includes a delivery network making a direct or indirect communication between the client system and the host system irrespective of physical separation. The communications link may include communication pathways that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks described above. Each of the communication pathways may include e.g. a wired wireless cable or satellite communication pathway.

The host system includes a host device capable of executing instructions under the command and direction of a host controller . The host device is connected to the host controller by a wired or wireless data pathway capable of carrying and delivering data.

The host system typically includes one or more host devices and or host controllers . For example the host system may include one or more general purpose computers e.g. personal computers one or more special purpose computers e.g. devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the client system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The host system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as e.g. one or more LANs and or one or more WANs.

The host device and host controller each typically includes one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a host device is a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. An example of host controller is a software application loaded on the host device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the host device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the host device to interact and operate as described herein. The host controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the host device .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the host system and communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to host system and communications link of respectively. Likewise the client system of typically has attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the client system of .

The client device typically includes a general purpose computer having an internal or external storage for storing data and programs such as an operating system e.g. DOS Windows Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows 2000 Windows NT OS 2 and Linux and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include authoring applications e.g. word processing database programs spreadsheet programs and graphics programs capable of generating documents or other electronic content client applications e.g. AOL client CompuServe client AIM client AOL TV client and ISP client capable of communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content and browser applications e.g. Netscape s Navigator and Microsoft s Internet Explorer capable of rendering standard Internet content.

The general purpose computer also includes a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions in response to commands from the client controller . In one implementation the client controller includes one or more of the application programs installed on the internal or external storage of the general purpose computer . In another implementation the client controller includes application programs externally stored in and performed by one or more device s external to the general purpose computer .

The general purpose computer typically will include a communication device for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver a set top box a communication card a satellite dish an antenna or another network adapter capable of transmitting and receiving data over the communications link through a wired or wireless data pathway . The general purpose computer also may include a television TV tuner for receiving television programming in the form of broadcast satellite and or cable TV signals. As a result the client device can selectively and or simultaneously display network content received by communications device and television programming content received by the TV tuner .

The general purpose computer typically will include an input output interface to enable a wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices include but are not limited to a mouse a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a keyboard a display monitor with or without a touch screen input and or a TV remote control for receiving information from and rendering information to subscribers. Other examples may include voice recognition and synthesis devices.

Although illustrates devices such as a mobile telephone a PDA and a TV remote control as being peripheral with respect to the general purpose computer in another implementation such devices may themselves include the functionality of the general purpose computer and operate as the client device . For example the mobile phone or the PDA may include computing and networking capabilities and function as a client device by accessing the delivery network and communicating with the host system . Furthermore the client system may include one some or all of the components and devices described above.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in respectively.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server for enabling access by subscribers and routing communications between the client system and other elements of the host device . The host device also includes various host complexes such as the depicted Online Service Provider OSP host complex and Instant Messaging IM host complex . To enable access to these host complexes by subscribers the client system may include communication software e.g. an OSP client application and an IM client application. The OSP and IM communication software applications are designed to facilitate the subscriber s interactions with the respective services and in particular may provide access to all the services available within the respective host complexes. For example Instant Messaging allows a subscriber to use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

Typically the OSP host complex supports different services such as email discussion groups chat news services and Internet access. The OSP host complex is generally designed with an architecture that enables the machines within the OSP host complex to communicate with each other certain protocols that is standards formats conventions rules and structures being employed to enable the transfer of data. The OSP host complex ordinarily employs one or more OSP protocols and custom dialing engines to enable access by selected client applications. The OSP host complex may define one or more specific protocols for each service based on a common underlying proprietary protocol.

The IM host complex is generally independent of the OSP host complex and supports instant messaging services regardless of a subscriber s network or Internet access. Thus the IM host complex allows subscribers to send and receive instant messages whether or not they have access to any particular ISP. The IM host complex may support associated services such as administrative matters advertising directory services chat and interest groups related to the instant messaging. The IM host complex has an architecture that enables all of the machines within the IM host complex to communicate with each other. To transfer data the IM host complex employs one or more standard or exclusive IM protocols.

The host device may include one or more gateways that connect and therefore link complexes such as the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway . The OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway may directly or indirectly link the OSP host complex with the IM host complex through a wired or wireless pathway. Ordinarily when used to facilitate a link between complexes the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway are privy to information regarding a protocol anticipated by a destination complex which enables any necessary protocol conversion to be performed incident to the transfer of data from one complex to another. For instance the OSP host complex and IM host complex may use different protocols such that transferring data between the complexes requires protocol conversion by or at the request of the OSP host complex gateway and or the IM host complex gateway .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in respectively. However describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of OSP host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an OSP application for communicating with servers in the OSP host complex using OSP protocols that may or may not be exclusive or proprietary. The client controller also may include applications such as an IM client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the IM host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as OSP host complex and IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of these elements.

The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are typically connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may generally perform protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between one or more of the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

The OSP host complex supports a set of services to be accessed through and or performed by from one or more servers located internal to and external from the OSP host complex . Servers external to the OSP host complex may communicate using the Internet . Servers internal to the OSP complex may be arranged in one or more configurations. For example servers may be arranged in large centralized clusters identified as farms or in localized clusters identified as pods .

More specifically farms are groups of servers located at centralized locations within the OSP host complex . Farms generally are dedicated to providing particular functionality and services to subscribers and clients from a centralized location regardless of the location of the subscriber or client. Farms are particularly useful for providing services that depend upon other remotely located or performed processes and services for information such as e.g. chat email instant messaging news newsgroups search stock updates and weather. Thus farms tend to rely on connections with external resources such as the Internet and or other servers within the OSP host complex .

By contrast to farms pods are clusters of localized servers that provide some services offered by the OSP host complex from a location local to the service or information recipient thus reducing and avoiding time delays and congestion inherent in centralized processing. Each pod includes one or more interrelated servers capable of operating together to provide one or more services offered by the OSP host complex in a geographically localized manner the servers within a pod generally operating independently rather than relying on resources external to the pod to operate. A pod may cache content received from external sources such as farms or the Internet making frequently requested information readily available to the local service or information recipients served by the pod . In this way pods are particularly useful in providing services that are independent of other processes and servers such as e.g. routing to other localized resources or recipients providing access to keywords and geographically specific content providing access to routinely accessed information and downloading certain software and graphical interface updates with reduced processing time and congestion. The determination of which servers and processes are located in the pod is made by the OSP according to load distribution frequency of requests demographics and other factors.

In addition to farms and pods the implementation of also includes one or more non podded and non farmed servers . In general the servers may be dedicated to performing a particular service or information that relies on other processes and services for information and may be directly or indirectly connected to resources outside of the OSP host complex such as the Internet and the IM host complex through an OSP gateway within OSP host complex gateway . In the event that subscriber usage of a particular service or information of the servers becomes relatively high those servers may be integrated into a farm or pod as appropriate.

In the implementation of one particular exemplary pod is shown in more detail. Pod includes a routing processor . In a packet based implementation the client system may generate information requests convert the requests into data packets sequence the data packets perform error checking and other packet switching techniques and transmit the data packets to the routing processor . Upon receiving data packets from the client system the routing processor may directly or indirectly route the data packets to a specified destination within or outside of the OSP host complex . In general the routing processor will examine an address field of a data request use a mapping table to determine the appropriate destination for the data request and direct the data request to the appropriate destination.

For example in the event that a data request from the client system can be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request to a local server in the pod . In the event that the data request cannot be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request internally to one or more farms one or more other pods or one or more non podded servers in the OSP host complex or the routing processor may direct the data request externally to elements such as the IM host complex through an OSP pod gateway .

The routing processor also may direct data requests and or otherwise facilitate communication between the client system and the Internet through the OSP pod gateway . In one implementation the client system uses an OSP client application to convert standard Internet content and protocols into OSP protocols and vice versa where necessary. For example when a browser application transmits a request in a standard Internet protocol the OSP client application can intercept the request convert the request into an OSP protocol and send the converted request to the routing processor in the OSP host complex . The routing processor recognizes the Internet as the destination and routes the data packets to an Internet Protocol IP tunnel . The IP tunnel converts the data from the OSP protocol back into standard Internet protocol and transmits the data to the Internet . The IP tunnel also converts the data received from the Internet in the standard Internet protocol back into the OSP protocol and sends the data to the routing processor for delivery back to the client system . At the client system the OSP client application converts the data in the OSP protocol back into standard Internet content for communication with the browser application.

The IP tunnel may act as a buffer between the client system and the Internet and may implement content filtering and time saving techniques. For example the IP tunnel can check parental controls settings of the client system and request and transmit content from the Internet according to the parental control settings. In addition the IP tunnel may include a number a caches for storing frequently accessed information. If requested data is determined to be stored in the caches the IP tunnel may send the information to the client system from the caches and avoid the need to access the Internet .

In another implementation the client system may use standard Internet protocols and formatting to access pods and the Internet . For example the subscriber can use an OSP TV client application having an embedded browser application installed on the client system to generate a request in standard Internet protocol such as HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP . In a packet based implementation data packets may be encapsulated inside a standard Internet tunneling protocol such as e.g. User Datagram Protocol UDP and routed to a web tunnel . The web tunnel may be a Layer Two Tunneling Protocol L2TP tunnel capable of establishing a point to point protocol PPP session with the client system . The web tunnel provides a gateway to the routing processor within the pod the Internet and a web proxy .

The web proxy can look up subscriber information from the IP address of the client system to determine demographic information such as the subscriber s parental control settings. In this way the web proxy can tailor the subscriber s content and user interfaces. The web proxy can also perform caching functions to store certain Uniform Resource Locators URLs and other electronic content so that the web proxy can locally deliver information to the client system and avoid the need to access the Internet in the event that data requested by the client system has been cached.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in respectively. However describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex utilizing exclusive IM protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an OSP client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with elements such as the OSP host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the OSP host complex and IM host complex login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of the elements. The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

To access the IM host complex to begin an instant messaging session the client system establishes a connection to the login server . The login server typically determines whether the particular subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex by verifying a subscriber identification and password. If the subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex the login server employs a hashing technique on the subscriber s screen name to identify a particular IM server for use during the subscriber s session. The login server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular IM server gives the client system an encrypted key that is a cookie and breaks the connection. The client system then uses the IP address to establish a connection to the particular IM server through the communications link and obtains access to that IM server using the encrypted key. Typically the client system will be equipped with a Winsock Application Programming Interface API that enables the client system to establish an open TCP connection to the IM server .

Once a connection to the IM server has been established the client system may directly or indirectly transmit data to and access content from the IM server and one or more associated domain servers . The IM server supports the fundamental instant messaging services and the domain servers may support associated services such as e.g. administrative matters directory services chat and interest groups. The domain servers can be used to lighten the load placed on the IM server by assuming responsibility for some of the services within the IM host complex . By accessing the IM server and or the domain server a subscriber can use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers or buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

In the implementation of IM server is directly or indirectly connected to a routing gateway . The routing gateway facilitates the connection between the IM server and one or more alert multiplexors . For example routing gateway may serve as a link minimization tool or hub to connect several IM servers to several alert multiplexors . In general an alert multiplexor maintains a record of alerts and subscribers registered to receive the alerts.

Once the client system is connected to the alert multiplexor a subscriber can register for and or receive one or more types of alerts. The connection pathway between the client system and the alert multiplexor is determined by employing a hashing technique at the IM server to identify the particular alert multiplexor to be used for the subscriber s session. Once the particular multiplexor has been identified the IM server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular alert multiplexor and gives the client system an encrypted key that is a cookie used to gain access to the identified multiplexor . The client system then uses the IP address to connect to the particular alert multiplexor through the communication link and obtains access to the alert multiplexor using the encrypted key.

The alert multiplexor is connected to an alert gate that like the IM host complex gateway is capable of performing the necessary protocol conversions to enable communication with the OSP host complex . The alert gate is the interface between the IM host complex and the physical servers such as servers in the OSP host complex where state changes are occurring. In general the information regarding state changes will be gathered and used by the IM host complex . However the alert multiplexor also may communicate with the OSP host complex through the IM gateway e.g. to provide the servers and subscribers of the OSP host complex with certain information gathered from the alert gate .

The alert gate can detect an alert feed corresponding to a particular type of alert. The alert gate may include a piece of code alert receive code capable of interacting with another piece of code alert broadcast code on the physical server where a state change occurs. In general the alert receive code installed on the alert gate instructs the alert broadcast code installed on the physical server to send an alert feed to the alert gate upon the occurrence of a particular state change. Thereafter upon detecting an alert feed the alert gate contacts the alert multiplexor which in turn informs the appropriate client system of the detected alert feed.

In the implementation of the IM host complex also includes a subscriber profile server connected to a database for storing large amounts of subscriber profile data. The subscriber profile server may be used to enter retrieve edit manipulate or otherwise process subscriber profile data. In one implementation a subscriber s profile data includes e.g. the subscriber s buddy list alert preferences designated stocks identified interests geographic location and other demographic data. The subscriber may enter edit and or delete profile data using an installed IM client application on the client system to interact with the subscriber profile server .

Because the subscriber s data is stored in the IM host complex the subscriber does not have to reenter or update such information in the event that the subscriber accesses the IM host complex using a new or different client system . Accordingly when a subscriber accesses the IM host complex the IM server can instruct the subscriber profile server to retrieve the subscriber s profile data from the database and to provide e.g. the subscriber s buddy list to the IM server and the subscriber s alert preferences to the alert multiplexor . The subscriber profile server also may communicate with other servers in the OSP host complex to share subscriber profile data with other services. Alternatively user profile data may be saved locally on the client device .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in respectively. However describes several aspects of one implementation of the host system in greater detail focusing primarily on one particular implementation of the login server and IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the IM host complex . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex utilizing exclusive IM protocols.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the IM host complex and the OSP host complex login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The IM host complex includes an IM server network a routing gateway an alert multiplexor network and one or more alert gates . The IM server network may include an interconnected network of IM servers and the alert multiplexor network may include an interconnected network of alert multiplexors. In the implementation of the IM server network and the alert multiplexor network are interconnected by a routing gateway that serves as a common hub to reduce the number of connections. Each IM server within IM server network can directly or indirectly communicate and exchange information with one or more of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network . Each of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network may be connected to several alert gates that receive different types of alerts.

During a session a subscriber typically will be assigned to one IM server in the IM server network and to one alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network based on one or more hashing techniques. In one implementation e.g. each IM server in the IM server network may be dedicated to serving a particular set of registered subscribers. Because all of the IM servers can communicate with each other all subscribers can communicate with each other through instant messaging. However the IM servers and the alert multiplexors are capable of storing subscriber information and other electronic content that may be accessed by the other IM servers and alert multiplexors. Thus in another implementation each alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network may be dedicated to storing information about a particular set or subset of alerts. Because all of the alert multiplexors can communicate with each other all registered subscribers can receive all types of alerts. This networking arrangement enables the load to be distributed among the various servers in the IM host complex while still enabling a subscriber to communicate share information or otherwise interact with other subscribers and servers in the IM host complex .

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example advantageous results still could be achieved if steps of the disclosed techniques were performed in a different order and or if components in the disclosed systems were combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components.

In addition the systems methods and techniques described here may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Apparatus embodying these techniques may include appropriate input and output devices a computer processor and a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor. A process embodying these techniques may be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform desired functions by operating on input data and generating appropriate output. The techniques may advantageously be implemented in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Each computer program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM disks. Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

