---

title: Heterocyclic derivatives
abstract: 

in which all of the variables are as defined in the specification, to their preparation, to their medical use, in particular to their use in the treatment of cancer and neurodegenerative disorders, and to medicaments comprising them.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458163&OS=09458163&RS=09458163
owner: Novartis AG
number: 09458163
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20150311
---
The invention relates to purine derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof processes for their preparation their use in the treatment of diseases their use either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent and optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for the manufacture of pharmaceutical preparations use of the pharmaceutical preparations for the treatment of diseases and a method of treatment of said diseases comprising administering the purine derivatives to a warm blooded animal especially a human.

The phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases superfamily comprises 4 different PI3K related lipid or protein kinases. Class I II and III are lipid kinases that differ by virtue of their substrate specificities whereas class IV PI3Ks also called PIKKs are protein kinases. Class I phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases comprise a family of lipid kinases that catalyze the transfer of phosphate to the D 3 position of inositol lipids to produce phosphoinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphoinositol 3 4 diphosphate PIP and phosphoinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate PIP that in turn act as second messengers in signaling cascades by docking proteins containing pleckstrin homology FYVE Phox and other phospholipid binding domains into a variety of signaling complexes often at the plasma membrane Vanhaesebroeck et al. 70 535 2001 Katso et al. 17 615 2001 . Of the two Class I PI3Ks Class IA PI3Ks are heterodimers composed of a catalytic p110 subunit isoforms constitutively associated with a regulatory subunit that can be p85 p55 p50 p85 or p55 . The Class IB sub class has one family member a heterodimer composed of a catalytic p110 subunit associated with one of two regulatory subunits p101 or p84 Fruman et al. 67 481 1998 Suire et al. 15 566 2005 . The modular domains of the p85 55 50 subunits include Src Homology SH2 domains that bind phosphotyrosine residues in a specific sequence context on activated receptor and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases resulting in activation and localization of Class IA PI3Ks. Class IB PI3K is activated directly by G protein coupled receptors that bind a diverse repertoire of peptide and non peptide ligands Stephens et al. 89 105 1997 Katso et al. 17 615 675 2001 . Consequently the resultant phospholipid products of class I PI3K link upstream receptors with downstream cellular activities including proliferation survival chemotaxis cellular trafficking motility metabolism inflammatory and allergic responses transcription and translation Cantley et al. 64 281 1991 Escobedo and Williams 335 85 1988 Fantl et al. 69 413 1992 .

In many cases PIP2 and PIP3 recruit Akt the product of the human homologue of the viral oncogene v Akt to the plasma membrane where it acts as a nodal point for many intracellular signaling pathways important for growth and survival Fantl et al. 69 413 423 1992 Bader et al. 5 921 2005 Vivanco and Sawyer 2 489 2002 . Aberrant regulation of PI3K which often increases survival through Akt activation is one of the most prevalent events in human cancer and has been shown to occur at multiple levels. The tumor suppressor gene PTEN which dephosphorylates phosphoinositides at the 3 position of the inositol ring and in so doing antagonizes PI3K activity is functionally deleted in a variety of tumors. In other tumors the genes for the p110 isoform PIK3CA and for Akt are amplified and increased protein expression of their gene products has been demonstrated in several human cancers. Furthermore mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex have been described in human cancers. Also somatic missense mutations in PIK3CA that activate downstream signaling pathways have been described at significant frequencies in a wide diversity of human cancers Kang at al. 102 802 2005 Samuels et al. 304 554 2004 Samuels et al. 7 561 573 2005 . These observations show that deregulation of phosphoinositol 3 kinase and the upstream and downstream components of this signaling pathway is one of the most common deregulations associated with human cancers and proliferative diseases Parsons et al. 436 792 2005 Hennessey at el. 4 988 1004 2005 .

The mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR is a member of the class IV PI3K. mTOR assembles a signaling network that transduces nutrient signals and various other stimuli to regulate a wide range of cellular functions including cell growth proliferation survival autophagy various types of differentiation and metabolism. In mammalian cells the mTOR protein is found complexed in two distinct entities called mTORC1 and mTORC2. The mTORC1 complex that is to say mTOR associated with raptor has been the matter of numerous studies. It is mTORC1 that integrates nutrient and growth factor inputs and is in turn responsible for cell growth regulation mainly through protein synthesis regulators such as 4EBP1 or RPS6. mTORC1 regulation requires PI3K and Akt activation for activation meaning that mTORC1 is an effector of the PI3K pathway. mTOR when associated in the mTOR complex 2 mTORC2 has been shown to be responsible for the activation of Akt by phosphorylation of S473 Akt 1 numbering Sarbassov et al. Science 307 7098 2005 . mTORC2 is hence here considered as an upstream activator of Akt. Interestingly mTOR can therefore be considered as being important both upstream and downstream of Akt. mTOR catalytic inhibition might therefore represent a unique way of addressing a very strong block in the PI3K Akt pathway by addressing both upstream and downstream effectors.

A link between mTOR inhibition and autophagy has also been demonstrated Ravikumar et al. 36 6 585 95 2004 . Autophagy is essential for neuronal homeostasis and its dysfunction has been linked to neurodegeneration. Loss of autophagy in neurons causes neurodegenerative disease in mice Komatsu et al. 441 880 4 2006 Hara et al. 441 885 9 2006 suggesting a critical role for autophagy to maintain protein homeostasis in neurons. Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by inclusions of misfolded proteins as one of the hallmarks. Induction of autophagy enhances clearance of misfolded proteins and thus is proposed as therapy for neurodegenerative proteinopathies.

Huntington s Disease HD is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder where a mutation of IT15 gene encoding the Huntingtin Htt protein leads to Polyglutamine expansion in Exon1 of Htt. Intracellular aggregation of this mutant Htt protein and brain atrophy in particular cortex and striatum are the main hallmarks of HD. It clinically leads to movement disturbance and cognitive dysfunction besides psychiatric disturbances and weight loss.

Inhibition of mTOR induces autophagy and reduces mutant Htt aggregation and mutant Htt mediated cell death in in vitro and in vivo models of HD Ravikumar et al. 36 6 585 95 2004 . mTOR inhibition therefore provides an opportunity for pharmaceutical intervention and modulation of the disrupted cellular processes characteristic of HD.

In view of the above inhibitors of class I PI3Ks and mTOR are considered to be of value in the treatment of proliferative diseases and other disorders in particular HD.

The present invention relates to novel purine derivatives having class I PI3K and or mTOR inhibitory activity their preparation medical use and to medicaments comprising them.

In a first aspect the invention relates to a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In a second aspect the invention relates to a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

As used herein the term Calkyl refers to a fully saturated branched or unbranched hydrocarbon moiety having up to 3 carbon atoms. Representative examples of Calkyl include methyl ethyl n propyl and iso propyl.

As used herein the term Calkoxy refers to Calkyl O wherein Calkyl is as defined herein above. Representative examples of Calkoxy include methoxy ethoxy propoxy and 2 propoxy.

As used herein the term hydroxy Calkyl refers to a Calkyl group as defined herein above wherein one of the hydrogen atoms of the Calkyl group is replaced by OH. Representative examples of hydroxy Calkyl include but are not limited to hydroxyl methyl 2 hydroxy ethyl 2 hydroxy propyl and 3 hydroxy propyl.

As used herein the term amino Calkyl refers to a Calkyl group as defined herein above wherein one of the hydrogen atoms of the Calkyl group is replaced by a primary amino group. Representative examples of hydroxy Calkyl include but are not limited to amino methyl 2 amino ethyl 2 amino propyl and 3 amino propyl.

The present invention provides compounds and pharmaceutical formulations thereof that may be useful in the treatment or prevention of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by the inhibition of class I PI3Ks and or mTOR.

Embodiment 1 a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as described hereinbefore.

Embodiment 2 a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as described hereinbefore.

Embodiment 3 a compound according to Embodiment 1 or Embodiment 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein X represents N.

Embodiment 4 a compound according to Embodiment 1 or Embodiment 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein X represents CH.

Embodiment 5 a compound according to any one of Embodiments 1 to 4 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein Rrepresents

Embodiment 6 a compound according to Embodiment 5 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein at least one of R R R Rand Ris not hydrogen.

Embodiment 7 a compound according to any one of Embodiments 1 to 4 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

Embodiment 8 a compound according to any one of Embodiments 1 to 7 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein Y represents O 

Embodiment 9 a compound according to any one of Embodiments 1 to 7 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein Y represents CHRor CRR.

On account of one or more than one asymmetrical carbon atom which may be present in a compound of the formula I a corresponding compound of the formula I may exist in pure optically active form or in the form of a mixture of optical isomers e. g. in the form of a racemic mixture. All of such pure optical isomers and all of their mixtures including the racemic mixtures are part of the present invention.

As used herein the term isomers refers to different compounds that have the same molecular formula but differ in arrangement and configuration of the atoms. Also as used herein the term an optical isomer or a stereoisomer refers to any of the various stereo isomeric configurations which may exist for a given compound of the present invention and includes geometric isomers. It is understood that a substituent may be attached at a chiral center of a carbon atom. The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability on their mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner. Therefore the invention includes enantiomers diastereomers or racemates of the compound. Enantiomers are a pair of stereoisomers that are non superimposable mirror images of each other. A 1 1 mixture of a pair of enantiomers is a racemic mixture. The term is used to designate a racemic mixture where appropriate. Diastereoisomers are stereoisomers that have at least two asymmetric atoms but which are not mirror images of each other. The absolute stereochemistry is specified according to the Cahn Ingold Prelog R S system. When a compound is a pure enantiomer the stereochemistry at each chiral carbon may be specified by either R or S. Resolved compounds whose absolute configuration is unknown can be designated or depending on the direction dextro or levorotatory which they rotate plane polarized light at the wavelength of the sodium D line. Certain compounds described herein contain one or more asymmetric centers or axes and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S .

Depending on the choice of the starting materials and procedures the compounds can be present in the form of one of the possible isomers or as mixtures thereof for example as pure optical isomers or as isomer mixtures such as racemates and diastereoisomer mixtures depending on the number of asymmetric carbon atoms. The present invention is meant to include all such possible isomers including racemic mixtures diasteriomeric mixtures and optically pure forms. Optically active R and S isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques. If the compound contains a double bond the substituent may be E or Z configuration. If the compound contains a disubstituted cycloalkyl the cycloalkyl substituent may have a cis or trans configuration.

It is also possible that the intermediates and compounds of the present invention may exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. A specific example of a proton tautomer is the imidazole moiety where the proton may migrate between the two ring nitrogens. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

Any resulting mixtures of isomers can be separated on the basis of the physicochemical differences of the constituents into the pure or substantially pure geometric or optical isomers diastereomers racemates for example by chromatography and or fractional crystallization.

Any resulting racemates of final products or intermediates can be resolved into the optical antipodes by known methods e.g. by separation of the diastereomeric salts thereof obtained with an optically active acid or base and liberating the optically active acidic or basic compound. In particular a basic moiety may thus be employed to resolve the compounds of the present invention into their optical antipodes e.g. by fractional crystallization of a salt formed with an optically active acid e.g. tartaric acid dibenzoyl tartaric acid diacetyl tartaric acid di O O p toluoyl tartaric acid mandelic acid malic acid or camphor 10 sulfonic acid. Racemic products can also be resolved by chiral chromatography e.g. high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC using a chiral adsorbent.

As used herein the terms salt or salts refers to an acid addition or base addition salt of a compound of the invention. Salts include in particular pharmaceutical acceptable salts . The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts that retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the compounds of this invention and which typically are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. In many cases the compounds of the present invention are capable of forming acid and or base salts by virtue of the presence of amino and or carboxyl groups or groups similar thereto.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of the formula I as defined herein in free form. In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound of the formula I as defined herein in salt form. In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound of the formula I as defined herein in acid addition salt form. In a further embodiment the invention relates to a compound of the formula I as defined herein in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form. In yet a further embodiment the invention relates to any one of the compounds of the Examples in free form. In yet a further embodiment the invention relates to any one of the compounds of the Examples in salt form. In yet a further embodiment the invention relates to any one of the compounds of the Examples in acid addition salt form. In yet a further embodiment the invention relates to any one of the compounds of the Examples in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts can be formed with inorganic acids and organic acids e.g. acetate aspartate benzoate besylate bromide hydrobromide bicarbonate carbonate bisulfate sulfate camphorsulfonate chloride hydrochloride chlortheophyllonate citrate ethandisulfonate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glucuronate hippurate hydroiodide iodide isethionate lactate lactobionate laurylsulfate malate maleate malonate mandelate mesylate methylsulphate naphthoate napsylate nicotinate nitrate octadecanoate oleate oxalate palmitate pamoate phosphate hydrogen phosphate dihydrogen phosphate polygalacturonate propionate stearate succinate sulfosalicylate tartrate tosylate and trifluoroacetate salts.

Inorganic acids from which salts can be derived include for example hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like.

Organic acids from which salts can be derived include for example acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid oxalic acid maleic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid sulfosalicylic acid and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts can be formed with inorganic and organic bases.

Inorganic bases from which salts can be derived include for example ammonium salts and metals from columns I to XII of the periodic table. In certain embodiments the salts are derived from sodium potassium ammonium calcium magnesium iron silver zinc and copper particularly suitable salts include ammonium potassium sodium calcium and magnesium salts.

Organic bases from which salts can be derived include for example primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines basic ion exchange resins and the like. Certain organic amines include isopropylamine benzathine cholinate diethanolamine diethylamine lysine meglumine piperazine and tromethamine.

The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention can be synthesized from a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting free acid forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base such as Na Ca Mg or K hydroxide carbonate bicarbonate or the like or by reacting free base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate acid. Such reactions are typically carried out in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two. Generally use of non aqueous media like ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol or acetonitrile is desirable where practicable. Lists of additional suitable salts can be found e.g. in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 20th ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1985 and in Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use by Stahl and Wermuth Wiley VCH Weinheim Germany 2002 .

Furthermore the compounds of the present invention including their salts can also be obtained in the form of their hydrates or include other solvents used for their crystallization. The compounds of the present invention may inherently or by design form solvates with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents including water therefore it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms. The term solvate refers to a molecular complex of a compound of the present invention including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof with one or more solvent molecules. Such solvent molecules are those commonly used in the pharmaceutical art which are known to be innocuous to the recipient e.g. water ethanol and the like. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

Compounds of the invention i.e. compounds of formula I that contain groups capable of acting as donors and or acceptors for hydrogen bonds may be capable of forming co crystals with suitable co crystal formers. These co crystals may be prepared from compounds of formula I by known co crystal forming procedures. Such procedures include grinding heating co subliming co melting or contacting in solution compounds of formula I with the co crystal former under crystallization conditions and isolating co crystals thereby formed. Suitable co crystal formers include those described in WO 2004 078163. Hence the invention further provides co crystals comprising a compound of formula I .

The compounds of the present invention including salts hydrates and solvates thereof may inherently or by design form polymorphs.

Any formula given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N F P P S Cl I respectively. The invention includes various isotopically labeled compounds as defined herein for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C or those into which non radioactive isotopes such as H and C are present. Such isotopically labelled compounds are useful in metabolic studies with C reaction kinetic studies with for example H or H detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. In particular an F or labeled compound may be particularly desirable for PET or SPECT studies. Isotopically labeled compounds of formula I can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the accompanying Examples and Preparations using an appropriate isotopically labeled reagents in place of the non labeled reagent previously employed.

Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent of a compound of the formula I . The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by the isotopic enrichment factor. The term isotopic enrichment factor as used herein means the ratio between the isotopic abundance and the natural abundance of a specified isotope. If a substituent in a compound of this invention is denoted deuterium such compound has an isotopic enrichment factor for each designated deuterium atom of at least 3500 52.5 deuterium incorporation at each designated deuterium atom at least 4000 60 deuterium incorporation at least 4500 67.5 deuterium incorporation at least 5000 75 deuterium incorporation at least 5500 82.5 deuterium incorporation at least 6000 90 deuterium incorporation at least 6333.3 95 deuterium incorporation at least 6466.7 97 deuterium incorporation at least 6600 99 deuterium incorporation or at least 6633.3 99.5 deuterium incorporation .

Pharmaceutically acceptable solvates in accordance with the invention include those wherein the solvent of crystallization may be isotopically substituted e.g. DO d acetone d DMSO.

Compounds of the present invention may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser Reagents for Organic Synthesis v. 1 19 Wiley New York 1967 1999 ed. or Beilsteins Handbuch der organischen Chemie 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

For illustrative purposes the reaction schemes depicted below provide potential routes for synthesizing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In a further aspect the invention relates to a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form comprising

The reactions can be effected according to conventional methods. For example the reaction described in step a above may be carried out in the presence of a suitable metal catalyst for example tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium a suitable base for example cesium fluoride a suitable solvent for example acetonitrile water and at a suitable temperature for example 50 to 150 C. more suitably 90 to 130 C.

The reaction described in step b above may be carried out in the presence of a suitable catalyst for example palladium II acetate a suitable oxidant for example copper II acetate a suitable solvent for example acetic acid and at a suitable temperature for example 0 to 50 C. or more suitably room temperature.

Within the scope of this text only a readily removable group that is not a constituent of the particular desired end product of the compounds of the present invention is designated a protecting group unless the context indicates otherwise. The protection of functional groups by such protecting groups the protecting groups themselves and their cleavage reactions are described for example in standard reference works such as J. F. W. McOmie Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry Plenum Press London and New York 1973 in T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Third edition Wiley New York 1999 in The Peptides Volume 3 editors E. Gross and J. Meienhofer Academic Press London and New York 1981 in Methoden der organischen Chemie Methods of Organic Chemistry Houben Weyl 4th edition Volume 15 I Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974 in H. D. Jakubke and H. Jeschkeit Aminosauren Peptide Proteine Amino acids Peptides Proteins Verlag Chemie Weinheim Deerfield Beach and Basel 1982 and in Jochen Lehmann Chemie der Kohlenhydrate Monosaccharide and Derivate Chemistry of Carbohydrates Monosaccharides and Derivatives Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974. A characteristic of protecting groups is that they can be removed readily i.e. without the occurrence of undesired secondary reactions for example by solvolysis reduction photolysis or alternatively under physiological conditions e.g. by enzymatic cleavage .

Salts of compounds of the present invention having at least one salt forming group may be prepared in a manner known to those skilled in the art. For example salts of compounds of the present invention having acid groups may be formed for example by treating the compounds with metal compounds such as alkali metal salts of suitable organic carboxylic acids e.g. the sodium salt of 2 ethylhexanoic acid with organic alkali metal or alkaline earth metal compounds such as the corresponding hydroxides carbonates or hydrogen carbonates such as sodium or potassium hydroxide carbonate or hydrogen carbonate with corresponding calcium compounds or with ammonia or a suitable organic amine stoichiometric amounts or only a small excess of the salt forming agent preferably being used. Acid addition salts of compounds of the present invention are obtained in customary manner e.g. by treating the compounds with an acid or a suitable anion exchange reagent. Internal salts of compounds of the present invention containing acid and basic salt forming groups e.g. a free carboxy group and a free amino group may be formed e.g. by the neutralisation of salts such as acid addition salts to the isoelectric point e.g. with weak bases or by treatment with ion exchangers.

Salts can be converted into the free compounds in accordance with methods known to those skilled in the art. Metal and ammonium salts can be converted for example by treatment with suitable acids and acid addition salts for example by treatment with a suitable basic agent.

For those compounds containing an asymmetric carbon atom the compounds exist in individual optically active isomeric forms or as mixtures thereof e.g. as racemic or diastereomeric mixtures. The present invention embraces both individual optically active R and S isomers as well as mixtures e.g. racemic or diastereomeric mixtures thereof. In addition the present invention embraces all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a compound of the present invention incorporates a double bond or a fused ring both the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures are embraced within the scope of the invention.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereoisomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereoisomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a commercially available chiral HPLC column.

The invention further includes any variant of the present processes in which an intermediate product obtainable at any stage thereof is used as starting material and the remaining steps are carried out or in which the starting materials are formed in situ under the reaction conditions or in which the reaction components are used in the form of their salts or optically pure material. Compounds of the invention and intermediates can also be converted into each other according to methods generally known to those skilled in the art.

For illustrative purposes the reaction schemes depicted below provide potential routes for synthesizing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

Generally the compounds of formula Ia can be prepared according to Scheme 1 in four steps starting from commercially available intermediate V. As to the individual steps in the scheme shown above step one involves preparation of the intermediate VII by chlorine displacement with nucleophile such as functionalized morpholino intermediate VI. Intermediate IX can be prepared by reaction of intermediate VII with intermediate VIII in presence of adequate base such as diisopropylethyl amine solvent such as dimethyl acetamide and heat. Step three involves bromination of the intermediate IX to intermediate IIa that can be done utilizing bromine in appropriate solvent such as dichloromethane.

Target compounds of structure Ia can be prepared by coupling of intermediate II with variety of commercially available or synthesized boronic acids or esters of structure III or IV using metal catalysts most often exemplified by commercially available palladium complexes.

Generally the compounds of formula Ib can be prepared according to Scheme 2 in five steps starting from commercially available intermediate X. As to the individual steps in the Scheme 2 step one involves preparation of intermediate XI by chlorine displacement with nucleophile such as functionalized morpholino intermediate VI. Intermediate XII can be prepared by reacting intermediate XI with intermediate VIII in the presence of solvent such as dimethyl acetamide base such as diisopropylethyl amine and heat. Step three involves protection of intermediate XII to intermediate IIb using adequate protection group such as benzylchloride or SEM Chloride in the presence of base such as sodium hydride and solvent such as tetrahydrofuran. Step four involves coupling of intermediate IIb with adequate boronic acid in presence of adequate solvent such as acetic acid oxidant such as copper acetate and commercially available palladium catalyst. Final step to target compounds exemplified by structure Ib involve the removal of the protection group using acid base or adequate catalysts such as palladium.

Boronic esters of formula IV can be prepared according to Scheme 3 in one step where Ris as described in formula I . The step involves reacting substituted arylbromide or heteroarylbromide of formula XIII with bis pinacolato diboron in the presence of commercially available palladium catalyst solvent such as dioxane at temperature ranging from 80 C. to 120 C.

Compounds of the formula I in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form hereinafter often referred to as agents of the invention exhibit valuable pharmacological properties when tested in vitro and may therefore be useful in medicaments in therapy or for use as research chemicals for example as tool compounds.

The agents of the invention are inhibitors of class I PI3Ks and mTOR. The inhibiting properties of a compound of the invention towards class I PI3Ks and mTOR can be evaluated in tests as described hereinafter.

PI3K KinaseGlo assay 50 nL of compound dilutions were dispensed onto black 384 well low volume Non Binding Styrene NBS plates Costar Cat. No. NBS 3676 . L a phosphatidylinositol PI provided as 10 mg ml solution in methanol was transferred into a glass tube and dried under nitrogen beam. It was then resuspended in 3 OctylGlucoside OG by vortexing and stored at 4 C. The KinaseGlo Luminescent Kinase Assay Promega Madison Wis. USA is a homogeneous HTS method of measuring kinase activity by quantifying the amount of ATP remaining in solution following a kinase reaction.

5 L of a mix of PI OG with the PI3K subtype were added Table 1 . Kinase reactions were started by addition of 5 l of ATP mix containing in a final volume 10 L 10 mM TRIS HCl pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl 50 mM NaCl 0.05 CHAPS 1 mM DTT and 1 M ATP and occurred at room temperature. Reactions were stopped with 10 l of KinaseGlo and plates were read 10 mins later in a Synergy2 reader using an integration time of 0.1 seconds per well. 2.5 M of a pan class 1 PI3 kinase inhibitor standard was added to the assay plates to generate the 100 inhibition of the kinase reaction and the 0 inhibition was given by the solvent vehicle 90 DMSO in water . The standard was used as a reference compound and included in all assay plates in the form of 16 dilution points in duplicate.

The PI3K construct is a fusion of p85 iSH2 domain and the respective p110 isoform. The p85 fragment and p110 isoform gene were generated by PCR from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial RNA from placenta testis and brain as described below.

BV1075 The construct for Baculovirus BV 1075 was generated by a three part ligation comprised of a p85 fragment and a p110 fragment cloned into vector pBlueBac4.5. The p85 fragment was derived from plasmid p1661 2 digested with Nhe Spe. The p110 fragment derived from its clone was verified by sequencing and used in LR410 as a SpeI HindIII fragment. For the generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR410 the gateway LR reaction to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector was used. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was digested with Nhe HindIII. This resulted in the construct PED 153.8. The p85 component iSH2 was generated by PCR using ORF 318 as a template and one forward primer KAC1028 5 gctagcatgcgagaatatgatagat tatatgaag aatatacc SEQ ID NO 1 and two reverse primers KAC1029 5 gcctccaccac ctccgcctg gtttaatgctgttcatacgtttgtc SEQ ID NO 2 and KAC1039 5 tactagtc cgcctccac cacctccgcctccaccacctccgcc SEQ ID NO 3 . The two reverse primers overlap and incorporate a 12 Gly linker and the N terminal sequence of the p110 gene to the SpeI site. The PCR fragment was cloned into pCR2.1 TOPO Invitrogen . Of the resulting clones p1661 2 was determined to be correct by sequencing. This plasmid was digested with Nhe and SpeI and the resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning.

The p110 cloning fragment was generated by enzymatic digest of clone LR410 see above with Spe I and HindIII. The SpeI site is in the coding region of the p110 gene. The resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was prepared by enzymatic digestion with Nhe and HindIII. The cut vector was purified with Qiagen column and then dephosphorylated with Calf Intestine alkaline phosphatase CIP BioLabs . After completion of the CIP reaction the cut vector was again column purified to generate the final vector. A three part ligation was performed using Roche Rapid ligase and the vendor specifications. The final plasmid was verified by sequencing.

PI3K was purified in two chromatographic steps immobilized metal affinity chromatography IMAC on a Ni sepharose resin GE Healthcare and gel filtration utilizing a Superdex 200 26 60 column GE Healthcare . All buffers were chilled to 4 C. and lysis was performed chilled on ice. Column fractionation was performed at room temperature.

Typically frozen cells from 10 L of Tn5 cell culture were resuspended in Lysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL okadaic acid OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free 20 tablets 1 L buffer Roche Applied Sciences benzonase 25 U mL buffer EMD Biosciences at a ratio of 1 6 v v pellet to Lysis Buffer ratio and mechanically lysed by douncing for 20 strokes using a tight fitting pestle. The lysate was centrifuged at 45 000 g for 30 minutes and the supernatant was loaded onto a pre equilibrated IMAC column 3 mL resin 100 mL lysate . The column was washed with 3 5 column volumes of Lysis Buffer followed by a second wash of 3 5 column volumes with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 45 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Protein was eluted with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 250 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. The protein was further purified by gel filtration on a Superdex 200 26 60 column equilibrated in 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 5 mM DTT 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. An equal volume of Dialysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 50 glycerol 5 mM NaF 5 mM DTT was added to the pool and than dialyzed against Dialysis Buffer two changes one change overnight . Protein was stored at 20 C.

IC50s for mTOR interacting compounds were assessed using the FRAP1 mTOR TR FRET tracer assay Invitrogen by Life Technologies . FRAP1 mTOR PV4753 and LanthaScreen Eu Anti GST Antibody PV5594 total volume of 14 L were added to each well of a ProxiPlate 384 Plus Perkin Elmer 384 well plate. Compounds were serially diluted in DMSO 12 point 4 dilution factor and 1 L of diluted compound was then added to each well and mixed by pipetting using a Biomek FX Beckman Coulter . 5 L of mTOR Kinase Tracer 314 PV6087 was added to each well mixed and plates were incubated at room temperature for 1 hour. Final concentrations of components are 6 nM FRAP1 3 nM LanthaScreen Eu Anti GST Antibody 50 nM mTOR Kinase Tracer 314 unlabeled compounds 4.8 10 20 M. Final assay buffer composition is 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 5 mM MgCl 1 mM EGTA 0.01 Pluronic F 127. Plates were measured in plate reader Perkin Elmer EnVision using 340 nm excitation and emission at two wavelengths Emission 1 665 nm and Emission 2 615 nm. The TR FRET ratio for each well Emission 1 665 Emission 2 615 was plotted against compound concentration using GraphPad Prism software and IC50s were determined using nonlinear regression with outlier elimination.

The following is a description of a high content imaging assay utilizing TSC1 mouse embryonic fibroblasts MEFs cells to test compounds for the inhibition of a constitutively active mTOR. The assay is based on the staining of phospho S6 240 244 using a commercially available antibody and detection with a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody. This assay generates IC50 values for compounds that inhibit mTOR. Here is described an imaging protocol and image recognition algorithm to visualize and measure changes in pS6 240 244 levels.

Autophagy is a catabolic pathway that degrades bulk cytosol in lysosomal compartments enabling amino acids and fatty acids to be recycled. One of the key regulators of autophagy is the mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR a conserved serine threonine kinase which suppresses the initiation of the autophagic process when nutrients growth factors and energy are available. To quantify autophagy induction by mTOR inhibitors we use a mCherry GFP LC3 reporter which is amenable to retroviral delivery into mammalian cells stable expression and analysis by fluorescence microscopy.

The amino acid sequence of the mCherry GFP LC3 construct is shown below SEQ ID NO 5 . The mCherry sequence is underlined GFP sequence is in bold and LC3A sequence is boxed.

Described hereinafter is an imaging protocol and image recognition algorithm to visualize and measure changes in the autophagic pathway.

The compounds of the Examples showed the values presented in Table 1 below when tested in the above assays.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings surfactants antioxidants preservatives e.g. antibacterial agents antifungal agents isotonic agents absorption delaying agents salts preservatives drugs drug stabilizers binders excipients disintegration agents lubricants sweetening agents flavoring agents dyes and the like and combinations thereof as would be known to those skilled in the art see for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Mack Printing Company 1990 pp. 1289 1329 . Except insofar as any conventional carrier is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions is contemplated.

The term a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention refers to an amount of the compound of the present invention that will elicit the biological or medical response of a subject for example reduction or inhibition of an enzyme or a protein activity or ameliorate symptoms alleviate conditions slow or delay disease progression or prevent a disease etc. In one non limiting embodiment the term a therapeutically effective amount refers to the amount of the compound of the present invention that when administered to a subject is effective to 1 at least partially alleviating inhibiting preventing and or ameliorating a condition or a disorder or a disease i mediated by class I PI3K and or mTOR or ii associated with class I PI3K and or mTOR activity or iii characterized by activity normal or abnormal of class I PI3K and or mTOR or 2 reducing or inhibiting the activity of class I PI3K and or mTOR. In another non limiting embodiment the term a therapeutically effective amount refers to the amount of the compound of the present invention that when administered to a cell or a tissue or a non cellular biological material or a medium is effective to at least partially reduce or inhibit the activity of class I PI3K and or mTOR. The meaning of the term a therapeutically effective amount as illustrated in the above embodiments for class I PI3K and or mTOR also applies by the same means to any other relevant proteins peptides enzymes such as class II or III PI3K.

As used herein the term subject refers to an animal. Typically the animal is a mammal. A subject also refers to for example primates e.g. humans male or female cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice fish birds and the like. In certain embodiments the subject is a primate. In yet other embodiments the subject is a human.

As used herein the term inhibit inhibition or inhibiting refers to the reduction or suppression of a given condition symptom or disorder or disease or a significant decrease in the baseline activity of a biological activity or process.

As used herein the term treat treating or treatment of any disease or disorder refers in one embodiment to ameliorating the disease or disorder i.e. slowing or arresting or reducing the development of the disease or at least one of the clinical symptoms thereof . In another embodiment treat treating or treatment refers to alleviating or ameliorating at least one physical parameter including those which may not be discernible by the patient. In yet another embodiment treat treating or treatment refers to modulating the disease or disorder either physically e.g. stabilization of a discernible symptom physiologically e.g. stabilization of a physical parameter or both.

As used herein the term prevention of any particular disease or disorder refers to the administration of a compound of the invention to a subject before any symptoms of that disease or disorder are apparent.

As used herein a subject is in need of a treatment if such subject would benefit biologically medically or in quality of life from such treatment.

As used herein the term a an the and similar terms used in the context of the present invention especially in the context of the claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by the context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention otherwise claimed.

The term compounds of the present invention unless specifically identified otherwise refer to compounds of formula I compounds of the Examples pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds and or hydrates or solvates of such compounds as well as all stereoisomers including diastereoisomers and enantiomers tautomers and isotopically labeled compounds including deuterium .

Compounds of the present invention are useful for treating diseases conditions and disorders modulated by the inhibition of class I PI3Ks and the mTOR enzyme consequently the compounds of the present invention including the compositions and processes used therein may be used in the manufacture of a medicament for the therapeutic applications described herein. Hence another embodiment of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient diluent or carrier. In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient diluent or carrier.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG400 PEG300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to give the patient an elegant and easily handleable product.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

In one embodiment the invention relates to the treatment of cellular proliferative diseases such as tumor and or cancerous cell growth mediated by PI3K and or mTOR. Diseases may include those showing overexpression or amplification of PI3K alpha Rheb somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN TSC1 TSC2 or mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex. In particular the compounds are useful in the treatment of human or animal e.g. murine cancers including for example sarcoma lung bronchus prostate breast including sporadic breast cancers and sufferers of Cowden disease pancreas gastrointestinal cancer colon rectum colon carcinoma colorectal adenoma thyroid liver intrahepatic bile duct hepatocellular adrenal gland stomach gastric glioma glioblastoma endometrial melanoma kidney renal pelvis urinary bladder uterine corpus uterine cervix vagina ovary multiple myeloma esophagus a leukaemia acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia lymphocytic leukemia myeloid leukemia brain a carcinoma of the brain oral cavity and pharynx larynx small intestine non Hodgkin lymphoma melanoma villous colon adenoma a neoplasia a neoplasia of epithelial character lymphomas a mammary carcinoma basal cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma actinic keratosis tumor diseases including solid tumors a tumor of the neck or head polycythemia vera essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia and Walden stroem disease.

In other embodiments the condition or disorder e.g. PI3K mediated is selected from the group consisting of polycythemia vera essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia asthma COPD ARDS Loffler s syndrome eosinophilic pneumonia parasitic in particular metazoan infestation including tropical eosinophilia bronchopulmonary aspergillosis polyarteritis nodosa including Churg Strauss syndrome eosinophilic granuloma eosinophil related disorders affecting the airways occasioned by drug reaction psoriasis contact dermatitis atopic dermatitis alopecia areata erythema multiforme dermatitis herpetiformis scleroderma vitiligo hypersensitivity angiitis urticaria bullous pemphigoid lupus erythematosus pemphisus epidermolysis bullosa acquisita autoimmune haematogical disorders e.g. haemolytic anaemia aplastic anaemia pure red cell anaemia and idiopathic thrombocytopenia systemic lupus erythematosus polychondritis scleroderma Wegener granulomatosis dermatomyositis chronic active hepatitis myasthenia gravis Steven Johnson syndrome idiopathic sprue autoimmune inflammatory bowel disease e.g. ulcerative colitis and Crohn s disease endocrine opthalmopathy Grave s disease sarcoidosis alveolitis chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis multiple sclerosis primary biliary cirrhosis uveitis anterior and posterior interstitial lung fibrosis psoriatic arthritis glomerulonephritis cardiovascular diseases atherosclerosis hypertension deep venous thrombosis stroke myocardial infarction unstable angina thromboembolism pulmonary embolism thrombolytic diseases acute arterial ischemia peripheral thrombotic occlusions and coronary artery disease reperfusion injuries retinopathy such as diabetic retinopathy or hyperbaric oxygen induced retinopathy and conditions characterized by elevated intraocular pressure or secretion of ocular aqueous humor such as glaucoma.

Additional syndromes with an established or potential molecular link to dysregulation of mTOR kinase activity are for instance described in K. Inoki et al. Disregulation of the TSC mTOR pathway in human disease Nature Genetics vol 37 19 24 D. M. Sabatini mTOR and cancer insights into a complex relationship Nature Reviews vol. 6 729 734 and in B. T. Hennessy et al. Exploiting the PI3K Akt pathway for cancer drug discovery Nature Reviews vol. 4 988 1004 and are as follows 

Compounds with an inhibitory activity on mTORC1 have shown benefit in immunomodulation and in treating proliferative diseases such as advance renal cell carcinoma or Tubero Sclerosis TSC germ line mutation associated disorders.

The catalytic inhibition of mTOR Ser Thr kinase activity or class I PI3 kinases activity and in particular dual class I PI3 kinase s and mTOR kinase inhibition may be useful for the treatment of PI3K Akt mTOR pathway dependent diseases. The efficacy of a dual PI3 kinase mTOR inhibitor in malignant glioma has been recently described Cancer Cell 9 341 349 .

For the above uses the required dosage will of course vary depending on the mode of administration the particular condition to be treated and the effect desired. In general satisfactory results are indicated to be obtained systemically at daily dosages of from about 0.03 to about 100.0 mg kg per body weight e.g. about 0.03 to about 10.0 mg kg per body weight. An indicated daily dosage in the larger mammal e.g. humans is in the range from about 0.5 mg to about 3 g e.g. about 5 mg to about 1.5 g conveniently administered for example in divided doses up to four times a day or in retard form. Suitable unit dosage forms for oral administration comprise from ca. 0.1 to about 500 mg e.g. about 1.0 to about 500 mg active ingredient.

In general compounds of the present invention will be administered as pharmaceutical compositions by any one of the following routes oral systemic e.g. transdermal intranasal or by suppository or parenteral e.g. intramuscular intravenous or subcutaneous administration. The preferred manner of administration is oral using a convenient daily dosage regimen that can be adjusted according to the degree of affliction. Compositions can take the form of tablets pills capsules semisolids powders sustained release formulations solutions suspensions elixirs aerosols or any other appropriate compositions. Another preferred manner for administering compounds of the present invention is inhalation. This is an effective method for delivering a therapeutic agent directly to the respiratory tract.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form e.g. as indicated above. Such salts may be prepared in conventional manner and exhibit the same order of activity as the free compounds.

PI3K serves as a second messenger node that integrates parallel signaling pathways evidence is emerging that the combination of a PI3K inhibitor with inhibitors of other pathways will be useful in treating cancer and proliferative diseases in humans. Approximately 20 30 of human breast cancers overexpress Her 2 neu ErbB2 the target for the drug trastuzumab. Although trastuzumab has demonstrated durable responses in some patients expressing Her2 neu ErbB2 only a subset of these patients respond. Further studies have indicated that this limited response rate can be substantially improved by the combination of trastuzumab with inhibitors of PI3K or the PI3K AKT pathway Chan et al. Breast Can. Res. Treat. 91 187 2005 Woods Ignatoski et al. Brit. J. Cancer 82 666 2000 Nagata et al. Cancer Cell 6 117 2004 .

A variety of human malignancies express activitating mutations or increased levels of Her1 EGFR and a number of antibody and small molecule inhibitors have been developed against this receptor tyrosine kinase including tarceva gefitinib and erbitux. However while EGFR inhibitors demonstrate anti tumor activity in certain human tumors e.g. NSCLC they fail to increase overall patient survival in all patients with EGFR expressing tumors. This may be rationalized by the fact that many downstream targets of Her1 EGFR are mutated or deregulated at high frequencies in a variety of malignancies including the PI3K Akt pathway. For example gefitinib inhibits the growth of an adenocarcinoma cell line in in vitro assays. Nonetheless sub clones of these cell lines can be selected that are resistant to gefitinib that demonstrate increased activation of the PI3 Akt pathway. Down regulation or inhibition of this pathway renders the resistant sub clones sensitive to gefitinib Kokubo et al. Brit. J. Cancer 92 1711 2005 . Furthermore in an in vitro model of breast cancer with a cell line that harbors a PTEN mutation and over expresses EGFR inhibition of both the PI3K Akt pathway and EGFR produced a synergistic effect She et al. Cancer Cell 8 287 297 2005 . These results indicate that the combination of gefitinib and PI3K Akt pathway inhibitors would be an attractive therapeutic strategy in cancer.

The combination of AEE778 an inhibitor of Her 2 neu ErbB2 VEGFR and EGFR and RAD001 an inhibitor of mTOR a downstream target of Akt produced greater combined efficacy that either agent alone in a glioblastoma xenograft model Goudar et al. Mol. Cancer. Ther. 4 101 112 2005 .

Anti estrogens such as tamoxifen inhibit breast cancer growth through induction of cell cycle arrest that requires the action of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip. Recently it has been shown that activation of the Ras Raf MAP Kinase pathway alters the phosphorylation status of p27Kip such that its inhibitory activity in arresting the cell cycle is attenuated thereby contributing to anti estrogen resistance Donovan et al J. Biol. Chem. 276 40888 2001 . As reported by Donovan et al. inhibition of MAPK signaling through treatment with MEK inhibitor reversed the aberrant phosphorylation status of p27 in hormone refractory breast cancer cell lines and in so doing restored hormone sensitivity. Similarly phosphorylation of p27Kip by Akt also abrogates its role to arrest the cell cycle Viglietto et al. Nat Med. 8 1145 2002 .

Accordingly in a further aspect the compounds of formula I may be useful in the treatment of hormone dependent cancers such as breast and prostate cancers. By this use it is aimed to reverse hormone resistance commonly seen in these cancers with conventional anticancer agents.

In hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML chromosomal translocation is responsible for the constitutively activated BCR Abl tyrosine kinase. The afflicted patients are responsive to imatinib a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor as a result of inhibition of Abl kinase activity. However many patients with advanced stage disease respond to imatinib initially but then relapse later due to resistance conferring mutations in the Abl kinase domain. In vitro studies have demonstrated that BCR Ab1 employs the Ras Raf kinase pathway to elicit its effects. In addition inhibiting more than one kinase in the same pathway provides additional protection against resistance conferring mutations.

Accordingly in another aspect the compounds of the present invention are used in combination with at least one additional agent selected from the group of kinase inhibitors such as Gleevec in the treatment of hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML . By this use it is aimed to reverse or prevent resistance to said at least one additional agent.

Because activation of the PI3K Akt pathway drives cell survival inhibition of the pathway in combination with therapies that drive apoptosis in cancer cells including radiotherapy and chemotherapy will result in improved responses Ghobrial et al. CA Cancer J. Clin 55 178 194 2005 . As an example combination of PI3 kinase inhibitor with carboplatin demonstrated synergistic effects in both in vitro proliferation and apoptosis assays as well as in in vivo tumor efficacy in a xenograft model of ovarian cancer Westfall and Skinner Mol. Cancer Ther. 4 1764 1771 2005 .

In addition to cancer and proliferative diseases there is accumulating evidence that inhibitors of Class 1A and 1B PI3 kinases would be therapeutically useful in others disease areas. The inhibition of p110 the PI3K isoform product of the PIK3CB gene has been shown to be involved in shear induced platelet activation Jackson et al. Nature Medicine 11 507 514 2005 . Thus a PI3K inhibitor that inhibits p110 would be useful as a single agent or in combination in anti thrombotic therapy. The isoform p110 the product of the PIK3CD gene is important in B cell function and differentiation Clayton et al. J. Exp. Med. 196 753 763 2002 T cell dependent and independent antigen responses Jou et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 22 8580 8590 2002 and mast cell differentiation Ali et al. Nature 431 1007 1011 2004 . Thus it is expected that p110 inhibitors would be useful in the treatment of B cell driven autoimmune diseases and asthma. Finally the inhibition of p110 the isoform product of the PI3KCG gene results in reduced T but not B cell response Reif et al. J. Immunol. 173 2236 2240 2004 and its inhibition demonstrates efficacy in animal models of autoimmune diseases Camps et al. Nature Medicine 11 936 943 2005 Barber et al. Nature Medicine 11 933 935 2005 .

The invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one compound of the present invention together with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient suitable for administration to a human or animal subject either alone or together with other anticancer agents.

The invention further provides methods of treating human or animal subjects suffering from a cellular proliferative disease such as cancer. The invention thus provides methods of treating a human or animal subject in need of such treatment comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention either alone or in combination with one or more other anticancer agents. In particular compositions will either be formulated together as a combination therapeutic or administered separately. Suitable anticancer agents for use with a compound of the present invention include but are not limited to one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of kinase inhibitors anti estrogens anti androgens other inhibitors cancer chemotherapeutic drugs alkylating agents chelating agents biological response modifiers cancer vaccines agents for antisense therapy as set forth below 

Kinase inhibitors for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include inhibitors of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor EGFR kinases such as small molecule quinazolines for example gefitinib U.S. Pat. No. 5 457 105 U.S. Pat. No. 5 616 582 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 770 599 ZD 6474 WO 01 32651 erlotinib Tarceva U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 498 and WO 96 30347 and lapatinib U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 256 and WO 02 02552 Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor VEGFR kinase inhibitors including SU 11248 WO 01 60814 SU 5416 U.S. Pat. No. 5 883 113 and WO 99 61422 SU 6668 U.S. Pat. No. 5 883 113 and WO 99 61422 CHIR 258 U.S. Pat. No. 6 605 617 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 774 237 vatalanib or PTK 787 U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 812 VEGF Trap WO 02 57423 B43 Genistein WO 09606116 fenretinide retinoic acid p hydroxyphenylamine U.S. Pat. No. 4 323 581 IM 862 WO 02 62826 bevacizumab or Avastin WO 94 10202 KRN 951 3 5 methylsulfonylpiperadine methyl indolyl quinolone AG 13736 and AG 13925 pyrrolo 2 1 f 1 2 4 triazines ZK 304709 Veglin VMDA 3601 EG 004 CEP 701 U.S. Pat. No. 5 621 100 Cand5 WO 04 09769 Erb2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as pertuzumab WO 01 00245 trastuzumab and rituximab Akt protein kinase inhibitors such as RX 0201 Protein Kinase C PKC inhibitors such as LY 317615 WO 95 17182 and perifosine US 2003171303 Raf Map MEK Ras kinase inhibitors including sorafenib BAY 43 9006 ARQ 350RP LErafAON BMS 354825 AMG 548 and others disclosed in WO 03 82272 Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor FGFR kinase inhibitors Cell Dependent Kinase CDK inhibitors including CYC 202 or roscovitine WO 97 20842 and WO 99 02162 Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor PDGFR kinase inhibitors such as CHIR 258 3G3 mAb AG 13736 SU 11248 and SU6668 and Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors and fusion proteins such as STI 571 or Gleevec imatinib .

Estrogen targeting agents for use in anticancer therapy in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators SERMs including tamoxifen toremifene raloxifene aromatase inhibitors including Arimidex or anastrozole Estrogen Receptor Downregulators ERDs including Faslodex or fulvestrant.

Androgen targeting agents for use in anticancer therapy in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include flutamide bicalutamide finasteride aminoglutethamide ketoconazole and corticosteroids.

Other inhibitors for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include protein farnesyl transferase inhibitors including tipifarnib or R 115777 US 2003134846 and WO 97 21701 BMS 214662 AZD 3409 and FTI 277 topoisomerase inhibitors including merbarone and diflomotecan BN 80915 mitotic kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitors including SB 743921 and MKI 833 proteasome modulators such as bortezomib or Velcade U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 454 XL 784 and cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors including non steroidal antiinflammatory drugs I NSAIDs .

Particular cancer chemotherapeutic agents for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include anastrozole Arimidex bicalutamide Casodex bleomycin sulfate Blenoxane busulfan Myleran busulfan injection Busulfex capecitabine Xeloda N4 pentoxycarbonyl 5 deoxy 5 fluorocytidine carboplatin Paraplatin carmustine BiCNU chlorambucil Leukeran cisplatin Platinol cladribine Leustatin cyclophosphamide Cytoxan or Neosar cytarabine cytosine arabinoside Cytosar U cytarabine liposome injection DepoCyt dacarbazine DTIC Dome dactinomycin Actinomycin D Cosmegan daunorubicin hydrochloride Cerubidine daunorubicin citrate liposome injection DaunoXome dexamethasone docetaxel Taxotere doxorubicin hydrochloride Adriamycin Rubex etoposide Vepesid fludarabine phosphate Fludara 5 fluorouracil Adrucil Efudex flutamide Eulexin tezacitibine Gemcitabine difluorodeoxycitidine hydroxyurea Hydrea Idarubicin Idamycin ifosfamide IFEX irinotecan Camptosar L asparaginase ELSPAR leucovorin calcium melphalan Alkeran 6 mercaptopurine Purinethol methotrexate Folex mitoxantrone Novantrone mylotarg paclitaxel Taxon phoenix Yttrium90 MX DTPA pentostatin polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant Gliadel tamoxifen citrate Nolvadex teniposide Vumon 6 thioguanine thiotepa tirapazamine Tirazone topotecan hydrochloride for injection Hycamptin vinblastine Velban vincristine Oncovin and vinorelbine Navelbine .

Alkylating agents for use in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include VNP 40101M or cloretizine oxaliplatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 169 846 WO 03 24978 and WO 03 04505 glufosfamide mafosfamide etopophos U.S. Pat. No. 5 041 424 prednimustine treosulfan busulfan irofluven acylfulvene penclomedine pyrazoloacridine PD 115934 O6 benzylguanine decitabine 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine brostallicin mitomycin C MitoExtra TLK 286 Telcyta temozolomide trabectedin U.S. Pat. No. 5 478 932 AP 5280 Platinate formulation of Cisplatin porfiromycin and clearazide meclorethamine .

Chelating agents for use in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include tetrathiomolybdate WO 01 60814 RP 697 Chimeric T84.66 cT84.66 gadofosveset Vasovist deferoxamine and bleomycin optionally in combination with electorporation EPT .

Biological response modifiers such as immune modulators for use in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include staurosprine and macrocyclic analogs thereof including UCN 01 CEP 701 and midostaurin see WO 02 30941 WO 97 07081 WO 89 07105 U.S. Pat. No. 5 621 100 WO 93 07153 WO 01 04125 WO 02 30941 WO 93 08809 WO 94 06799 WO 00 27422 WO 96 13506 and WO 88 07045 squalamine WO 01 79255 DA 9601 WO 98 04541 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 025 387 alemtuzumab interferons e.g. IFN a IFN b etc. interleukins specifically IL 2 or aldesleukin as well as IL 1 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 and active biological variants thereof having amino acid sequences greater than 70 of the native human sequence altretamine Hexalen SU 101 or leflunomide WO 04 06834 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 331 555 imidazoquinolines such as resiquimod and imiquimod U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 689 338 5 389 640 5 268 376 4 929 624 5 266 575 5 352 784 5 494 916 5 482 936 5 346 905 5 395 937 5 238 944 and 5 525 612 and SMIPs including benzazoles anthraquinones thiosemicarbazones and tryptanthrins WO 04 87153 WO 04 64759 and WO 04 60308 .

Anticancer vaccines for use in conjunction with the compound of the present invention include Avicine Tetrahedron Lett. 26 2269 70 1974 oregovomab OvaRex Theratope STn KLH Melanoma Vaccines GI 4000 series GI 4014 GI 4015 and GI 4016 which are directed to five mutations in the Ras protein GlioVax 1 MelaVax Advexin or INGN 201 WO 95 12660 Sig E7 LAMP 1 encoding HPV 16 E7 MAGE 3 Vaccine or M3TK WO 94 05304 HER 2VAX ACTIVE which stimulates T cells specific for tumors GM CSF cancer vaccine and based vaccines.

Anticancer agents for use in conjunction with the compound of the present invention also include antisense compositions such as AEG 35156 GEM 640 AP 12009 and AP 11014 TGF beta2 specific antisense oligonucleotides AVI 4126 AVI 4557 AVI 4472 oblimersen Genasense JFS2 aprinocarsen WO 97 29780 GTI 2040 R2 ribonucleotide reductase mRNA antisense oligo WO 98 05769 GTI 2501 WO 98 05769 liposome encapsulated c Raf antisense oligodeoxynucleotides LErafAON WO 98 43095 and Sirna 027 RNAi based therapeutic targeting VEGFR 1 mRNA .

The compound of the present invention may also be combined in a pharmaceutical composition with bronchiodilatory or antihistamine drugs substances. Such bronchiodilatory drugs include anticholinergic or antimuscarinic agents in particular ipratropium bromide oxitropium bromide and tiotropium bromide and 2 adrenoreceptor agonists such as salbutamol terbutaline salmeterol carmoterol milveterol and especially formoterol or indacaterol. Co therapeutic antihistamine drug substances include cetirizine hydrochloride clemastine fumarate promethazine loratadine desloratadine diphenhydramine and fexofenadine hydrochloride.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of a thrombolytic disease heart disease stroke etc. Such compounds include aspirin a streptokinase a tissue plasminogen activator a urokinase a anticoagulant antiplatelet drugs e.g PLAVIX clopidogrel bisulfate a statin e.g. LIPITOR or Atorvastatin calcium ZOCOR Simvastatin CRESTOR Rosuvastatin etc. a Beta blocker e.g. Atenolol NORVASC amlodipine besylate and an ACE inhibitor e.g. lisinopril .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of antihypertension. Such compounds include ACE inhibitors lipid lowering agents such as statins LIPITOR Atorvastatin calcium calcium channel blockers such as NORVASC amlodipine besylate .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of fibrates beta blockers NEPI inhibitors Angiotensin 2 receptor antagonists and platelet aggregation inhibitors.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and a compound suitable for the treatment of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of TNF inhibitors such as anti TNF monoclonal antibodies such as REMICADE CDP 870 and D2E7 HUMIRA and TNF receptor immunoglobulin fusion molecules such as ENBREL IL 1 inhibitors receptor antagonists or soluble IL 1R e.g. KINERET or ICE inhibitors nonsterodial anti inflammatory agents NSAIDS piroxicam diclofenac naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen ibuprofen fenamates mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones phenylbutazone aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as CELEBREX celecoxib PREXIGE lumiracoxib metalloprotease inhibitors preferably MMP 13 selective inhibitors p2x7 inhibitors 2 inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin low dose methotrexate leflunomide hydroxyxchloroquine d penicillamine auranofin or parenteral or oral gold.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and a compound suitable for the treatment of osteoarthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of standard non steroidal anti inflammatory agents hereinafter NSAID s such as piroxicam diclofenac propionic acids such as naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen and ibuprofen fenamates such as mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones such as phenylbutazone salicylates such as aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as celecoxib valdecoxib lumiracoxib and etoricoxib analgesics and intraarticular therapies such as corticosteroids and hyaluronic acids such as hyalgan and synvisc.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and an antiviral agent and or an antisepsis compound. Such antiviral agent may be selected from the group consisting of Viracept AZT acyclovir and famciclovir. Such antisepsis compound may be selected from the group consisting of Valant.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and one or more agents selected from the group consisting of CNS agents such as antidepressants sertraline anti Parkinsonian drugs such as deprenyl L dopa Requip Mirapex MAOB inhibitors such as selegine and rasagiline comP inhibitors such as Tasmar A 2 inhibitors dopamine reuptake inhibitors NMDA antagonists Nicotine agonists Dopamine agonists and inhibitors of neuronal nitric oxide synthase .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and one or more anti Alzheimer s drugs. Such anti Alzheimer Drug may be selected from the group consisting of donepezil tacrine 2 inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin COX 2 inhibitors propentofylline or metryfonate.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of the present invention and anosteoporosis agents and or an immunosuppressant agent. Such osteoporosis agents may be selected from the group consisting of EVISTA raloxifene hydrochloride droloxifene lasofoxifene or fosomax. Such immunosuppressant agents may be selected from the group consisting of FK 506 and rapamycin.

In another aspect of the preferred embodiments kits that include one or more compound of the present invention and a combination partner as disclosed herein are provided. Representative kits include a PI3K inhibitor compound e.g. a compound of the present invention and a package insert or other labeling including directions for treating a cellular proliferative disease by administering a PI3K inhibitory amount of the compound s .

Combined pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of the present invention in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form and further comprising a combination partner either in one dosage unit form or as a kit of parts in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable carrier and or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent with said active ingredients.

The following examples of compounds of the present invention illustrate the invention without limiting the scope thereof. Methods for preparing such compounds are described hereinafter.

NMR proton spectra are recorded on a Bruker 400 MHz ultrashield spectrometer unless otherwise noted. Chemical shifts are reported in ppm relative to methanol 3.31 dimethyl sulfoxide 2.50 or chloroform 7.26 . A small amount of the dry sample 2 5 mg is dissolved in an appropriate deuterated solvent 1 mL . The shimming is automated and the spectra is obtained with 64 or more scans.

The sample is dissolved in suitable solvent such as MeCN DMSO or MeOH and is injected directly into the column using the automated sample handler. The analysis is done using with one of the following methods 

Method 1 compounds are analyzed on an Inertsil ODS 3 column C18 50 4.6 mm 3 m with a 2 min gradient elution 20 80 acetonitrile HO 5 mM ammonium formate and a flow rate of 4 mL min.

Method 2 GENERAL LC MS method with acid mobile phase 0.1 formic acid and fast gradient. Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 20 80 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil ODS3 C 18 3 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 deg C.

Method 3 GENERAL LC MS method with neutral mobile phase 5 mM NHHCOO and fast 20 80 gradient. Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 20 80 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil ODS3 C 18 3 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 deg C.

Method 4 LC MS method for NON POLAR greasy compounds with acid mobile phase 0.1 formic acid and fast 40 90 gradient. Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 40 90 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil C8 3 3 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 deg C.

Method 5 LC MS method for NON POLAR greasy compounds with neutral mobile phase 5 mM NHHCOO and fast 40 90 gradient. Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 40 90 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil C8 3 3.0 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 deg C.

Method 6 LC MS method with broad range 5 95 gradient with acid mobile phase 0.1 Formic Acid . Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 5 95 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil C8 3 3.0 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 deg C.

Method 7 LC MS method with broad range 5 95 gradient with neutral mobile phase 5 mM NHHCOO . Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 5 95 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil C8 3 3 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 deg C.

Method 8 LC MS method for POLAR compounds with acid mobile phase 0.1 formic acid and slow 0 100 gradient. Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 0 100 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil ODS3 C 18 3 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 degree C. 

Method 9 LC MS method for POLAR compounds with neutral mobile phase 5 mM NHHCOO and slow 0 100 gradient. Electrospray mass spectra and DAD UV chromatogram 200 400 nm scan range 120 1500 Da. Gradient 0 100 MeCN HO in 2 min 2 mL min 2 L injection. Column Inertsil ODS 3 C 18 3 cm 33 mm 3.0 m 40 deg C.

Method 10 Compounds are analyzed on an Inertsil ODS 3 column C8 30 mm 3.0 mm 3.0 um with a 2 min gradient elution 5 90 acetonitrile HO 5 mM ammonium formate and a flow rate of 2 mL min.

Method 11 Compounds are analyzed on an Inertsil ODS 3 column C8 30 mm 3.0 mm 3.0 um with a 2 min gradient elution 5 90 acetonitrile HO 0.1 formic acid and a flow rate of 2 mL min.

HPLC purification utilizes a C8 or C18 column 30 100 mm 5 um brand Sunfire or XTerra . The sample is dissolved in suitable solvent such as MeCN DMSO or MeOH maximum 5 mL and is injected directly into the column using the automated sample handler. The purification is performed with an appropriate gradient using two methods unless otherwise noted . Method 1 consists of 0.1 TFA in 5 95 ACN in HO. Method 2 consists of 10 mM NHOH in 5 95 ACN in HO.

The boronic ester intermediates used in the preparation of compounds of the present invention are either commercially available or may be prepared as described in the literature or in an analogous manner or can be prepared as described hereafter or in an analogous manner.

To a solution of 4 Bromo 7 azaindole 0.48 g 2.41 mmol in dioxane 12 mL was added bis pinacolato diboron followed by bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 0.067 g 0.12 mmol . The mixture was degassed for 20 minutes using nitrogen followed by addition of PdCl dppf catalyst 0.088 g 0.12 mmol . Suspension was degassed for additional 5 minutes. Vial was seal and placed in an oil bath. The reaction was heated to 120 C. for 16 hours. After completion the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature suspension was filtered and solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude was directly purified on Biotage using 0 100 gradient of EtOAC Heptane. Further purification was done using preparative HPLC gradient 5 95 with 3 n propanol acetonitrile over 3 n propanol water to afford as a white solid 0.054 g 9.2 LC MS analysis using method 7 mass ES m z 245.4 H NMR CDCl 9.03 1H brs 8.24 1H d 7.42 1H d 7.30 1H d 6.86 1H d 1.31 12H s 

Boronic ester was synthesized using general procedure described in Scheme 3. The compound was isolated in 77 yield as yellow oil. H NMR CDOD 7.76 1H s 7.67 1H d 6.90 1H d 4.62 2H s 3.83 3H s 1.32 12H s 

Boronic ester was synthesized using general procedure described in Scheme 3. The compound was isolated in 27 yield as brown solid. HNMR DMSO d 7.24 1H s 7.01 1H s 6.99 1H s 5.18 1H m 4.47 2H d 3.75 3H s 1.29 12H s .

To a solution of 3 bromobenzylamine 0.79 g 4.24 mmol di tertbutyldicarbonate 1.82 g 8.5 mmol 2.0 equiv in 10 mL of CHClwas added triethylamine 1.29 g 12.7 mmol 3.0 equiv. After 2 hours of stirring the reaction was stopped and the solution was washed with water. Aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. Organic layers combined and dried over MgSO. Upon removal of solvent under reduced pressure the crude was purified using flash column chromatography Biotage 0 60 gradient of EtOAc Heptane . The desired boronic ester was then synthesized using general coupling procedure described in Scheme 3. The compound was isolated in 59 yield as brown solid. HNMR CDCl 7.61 7.62 2H m 7.27 7.31 1H m 7.24 1H t 4.85 1H brs 4.72 2H brs 1.37 9H s 1.25 12H s 

To a solution of 2 6 dichloro 9H purine 1.2 g 6.35 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 5 mL was added morpholine 553 mg 6.35 mmol followed by diisopropylethyl amine 1.2 mL 6.87 mmol dropwise via a syringe. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour until precipitate formed. The reaction mixture was then poured into water and the precipitate was filtered. Upon drying under high vacuum 2 chloro 6 morpholin 4 yl 9H purine was isolated as an off white solid. 1.5 g 99 LC MS analysis method 7 mass ES m z 240.2 H NMR DMSO d 13.21 1H brs 8.15 1H s 4.18 4H brs 3.72 4H t 

To the solution of 2 chloro 6 morpholin 4 yl 9H purine 1.5 g 6.26 mmol in DMA 5 mL was added cis 2 6 dimethylmorpholine 1.42 g 12.52 mmol followed by DIPEA 2.1 mL 12.02 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 130 C. for 40 hours. Upon completion of the reaction the solution was poured into water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc three times. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to provide 2 2S 6R 2 6 dimethyl morpholin 4 yl 6 morpholin 4 yl 9H purine 1.96 g 98 as a yellow solid. LC MS analysis method 7 mass ES m z 319.2 HNMR DMSO d 12.37 1H s 7.76 1H s 4.38 2H d 4.12 4H brs 3.69 4H m 3.54 2H m 2.40 2H m 1.14 6H d .

To a solution of 2 2S 6R 2 6 dimethyl morpholin 4 yl 6 morpholin 4 yl 9H purine 860 mg 2.70 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added bromine 0.04 mL 3.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 3 hours. Saturated sodium thiosulfate was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane two times. Organic layers were combined and dried over NaSOand solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude was purified by flash column chromatography 0 70 EtOAc Heptane gradient to furnish product as an off white solid 362.1 mg 34 . LC MS analysis using method 7 mass ES m z 399.1 HNMR CDCl 4.31 2H d 4.09 4H brs 3.74 4H m 3.59 2H m 2.51 2H m 1.18 6H d .

To a round bottom flask were added 8 bromo 2 2S 6R 2 6 dimethyl morpholin 4 yl 6 morpholin 4 yl 9H purine 38.2 mg 0.096 mmol cesium fluoride 58.4 mg 0.39 mmol 3 hydroxyphenylboronic acid 39.8 mg 0.29 mmol and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 8.9 mg 7.69 mmol followed by 1 mL of acetonitrile water solvent mixture 10 1 ratio . Suspension was heated to 115 C. and stirred overnight. Upon completion of the reaction the suspension was cooled and solids filtered off. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude was purified directly by preparative HPLC to provide 3 2 2S 6R 2 6 dimethyl morpholin 4 yl 6 morpholin 4 yl 9H purin 8 yl phenol 18.5 mg 47 as yellow solid. LC MS analysis method 7 mass ES m z 411.2 retention time 1.40 min. HNMR CDCl 7.34 1H d 7.24 2H m 6.87 1H d 4.35 2H d 4.30 4H brs 3.80 4H m 3.57 2H m 2.53 2H t 1.16 6H d .

In a 20 mL vial 2 4 dichloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 0.19 g 1.011 mmol 1.0 equiv was dissolved in NMP 2 mL . Di isopropyl ethylamine 0.392 g 0.514 mL 3.03 mmol 3.0 equiv and morpholine 0.264 g 0.264 mL 3.03 mmol 3.0 equiv. were then added. The reaction mixture was then transferred into a 5 mL microwave vessel and heated at 200 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction was then cooled down to room temperature and diluted with 35 mL of ethyl acetate. The organic phase was then washed with saturated ammonium chloride solution 2 30 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSO filtered and removed under reduced pressure to obtain a brown oil. The oil was then purified using flash chromatography using 20 to 100 gradient of EtOAc Heptane. The compound was isolated as a white solid 239.1 mg 82 yield . HNMR CDCl 9.67 1H brs 6.74 1H m 6.29 1H d 3.82 8H dt 3.72 8H m 

A solution of 2 4 di morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 180 mg 0.622 mmol 1.0 equiv in 25 mL of DMF was cooled to 0 C. using an ice bath under nitrogen atmosphere. Sodium hydride in oil was then added 60 wt 34.8 mg 0.871 mmol 1.4 equiv and the reaction was stirred for 1 hr at 0 C. To the reaction mixture 2 chloromethoxy ethyl trimethylsilane 154 L 145 mg 0.871 mmol 1.4 equiv was added and the reaction was allowed to warm up to room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched by adding 5 mL of HO then poured into 30 mL of EtOAc. The organic phase was then washed twice with aqueous saturated ammonium chloride solution 2 25 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSO filtered and removed under reduced pressure to obtain dark brown colored oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography using 0 to 70 EtOAc Heptane gradient. The product was isolated as a white solid 205 mg 79 yield . HNMR CDCl 6.91 1H d 6.46 1H d 5.55 2H s 3.94 8H dt 3.82 8H brs 3.57 2H t 0.95 2H t 0.00 9H s 

To a 20 mL vial with a septum were added 4 di morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilanyl ethoxymethyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 40 mg 0.095 mmol 1 equiv palladium II acetate 2.15 mg 0.0095 mmol 0.1 equiv copper II acetate 3.5 mg 0.019 mmol 0.2 equiv and 3 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 26.3 mg 0.191 mmol 2 equiv followed by acetic acid 5 mL . The reaction was then stirred under 1 atm of air for 15 hours at room temperature. The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution was added slowly to quench the acid. The reaction was then diluted with ethyl acetate 40 mL and washed with aqueous saturated bicarbonate solution 2 20 mL . The organic layer was then removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was directly purified using reverse phase preparative HPLC system 5 to 100 HO MeCN gradient with 0.1 TFA in water as modifier . Upon lypholizing the fractions containing the desired product a total of 34.6 mg of C2 and C3 arylation product was obtained. The earlier fraction contained the desired C2 arylation product 8.1 mg 16.9 yield . HNMR CDCl 7.24 1H brs 7.21 1H brs 6.82 1H d 6.44 1H s 5.50 2H s 3.87 4H m 3.83 4H m 3.79 11H m 0.98 2H t 0.00 9H s 

To a round bottom flask were added 3 2 4 di morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilanyl ethoxymethyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 yl phenol 8.1 mg 0.016 mmol and cesium fluoride 72.4 mg 0.477 mmol 30 equiv followed by acetone 6 mL . The reaction was heated for 6 hours at 40 C. The reaction was then quenched by adding aqueous saturated ammonium chloride solution 10 mL . Acetone was removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous phase was extracted with DCM 3 15 mL . The combined organic phase was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was directly purified using reverse phase preparative HPLC 5 to 70 HO MeCN with n propanol in water as modifier to obtain the desired product as a white solid 4.1 mg 67.8 yield . LC MS analysis method 7 mass ES m z 382.4 retention time 1.05 min HNMR CDCl 10.15 1H brs 7.15 1H t 7.02 1H d 6.67 1H brs 6.65 2H m 6.52 1H s 3.82 ppm 8H dt 3.64 8H m 

Examples 3 to 38 in Table 2 below can be made using procedures analogous to those described in Examples 1 and 2 using the appropriate boronic acid or boronic ester intermediate.

