---

title: Memory system and electronic device including memory system
abstract: A memory system processing data according to a received first request may include a main memory and a memory controller. The main memory may comprise a first area and a second area, and may be configured to provide data from the first area to the second area. The memory controller may comprise a scoreboard configured to indicate that a first piece of sub-data of a first set of sub-data of the data has been provided from the first area to the second area. Based on the scoreboard, the memory controller may be configured to perform processing of the first request by using the first piece of sub-data before providing of other pieces of sub-data of the first set of sub-data from the first area to the second area is completed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575759&OS=09575759&RS=09575759
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09575759
owner_city: Samsung-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150218
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0042022 filed on Apr. 8 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a memory system and an electronic device including the memory system and more particularly to a memory system capable of improving operational performance thereof and an electronic device including the memory system.

When an application is executed in an electronic device data needed for execution of the application is typically loaded on a main memory. In doing so a first operation of providing data to the main memory may cause a delay in a second operation of using the data provided to the main memory. Accordingly various technologies for obtaining a memory system that may operate at a high efficiency have been developed.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a memory system which may improve operational performance thereof and an electronic device including the memory system.

According to an exemplary embodiment there is provided a memory system processing data according to a received first request. The memory system may include a first memory and a memory controller. The first memory may include a first area and a second area and may be configured to provide data from the first area to the second area. The memory controller may include a scoreboard. The scoreboard may be configured to indicate that a first piece of sub data of a first set of sub data of the data has been provided from the first area to the second area. Based on the scoreboard the memory controller may be configured to perform processing of the first request by using the first piece of sub data before providing of other pieces of sub data of the first set of sub data from the first area to the second area is completed.

The first area may be a memory area assigned to an operating system and the second area may be a memory area assigned to an application.

The scoreboard may be configured to store an in use bit indicating whether provision of the first set of sub data of the data to the second area is being performed store a tag indicating a start address of the second area and store a plurality of full empty bits respectively indicating whether each piece of sub data of the first set of sub data has been provided to respective sub area of the first set of sub areas of the second area.

The scoreboard may include a first register set comprising a first register configured to store the in use bit a second register configured to store the tag and a plurality of third registers each configured to store each of the plurality of full empty bits corresponding to the first set of sub areas of the second area.

The first request may be processed in units of macro operations the second area may be set to have a size corresponding to the units of macro operations and the plurality of third registers may be provided in a number corresponding to the units of macro operations.

The memory controller may differently set a size of each of the plurality of sub areas indicated by one of the plurality of third registers according to a size of the data required for processing the first request.

The memory controller may include at least a second register set indicating whether provision of a second set of sub data of the data has been provided to a second set of sub areas of the second area the plurality of third registers of the first register set comprises m registers each having k data bits and a plurality of third registers of the second register set comprises n registers each having 1 data bits m is equal to or different from n and k is equal to or different from 1 and the memory controller may be configured to assign one of the first register set and the second register set based on a size of the data required for processing the first request.

When may be an i th sub data and an i 1 th sub data of the first set of sub data are sequentially transmitted to the second area and one of the plurality of full empty bits indicates that the i th sub data may be the last sub data transmitted to the second area the memory controller may be configured to process the first request on the first set of sub data up to the i th sub data and then interlock process the first request on the i 1 th sub data.

A result of the processing of the first request by using the first set of sub data provided to the second area may have been provided to a third area of the first memory and the memory controller may be configured to process a second request by using data provided to the third area before an operation performed based on the first request is completed.

The memory controller may include a control circuit configured to generate a first control signal indicating a control operation to process the first request a scoreboard checking circuit configured to generate a second control signal based on a result of checking the scoreboard in response to the first control signal a performing circuit configured to perform transmission of the data from the first area to the second area in a unit of a piece of sub data perform the first request by using the sub data transmitted to the second area in response to the second control signal and generate a third control signal and a scoreboard updating circuit configured to update the scoreboard in response to the third control signal and generate a fourth control signal based on a result of the updating.

The first request may be for all pieces of sub data of the first set of sub data of the first area. The memory controller may further include a mode setting circuit that is configured to control the control circuit the scoreboard checking circuit the performing circuit and the scoreboard updating circuit so that the first request is performed after the all of pieces of sub data of the first set of sub data are all transmitted from the first area to the second area in response to a mode signal.

The first request may be received from a first device that is located outside the memory system and the first device is configured to execute an application related to the first request.

The memory system may further include a second memory that is configured to transmit data corresponding to the first request to the first memory or store data processed corresponding to the first request.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided an electronic device. The electronic device may include a first device and a second device. The first device may be configured to execute an application. The second device may be configured to process data required to execute the application in response to a first request of the first device. The second device may include a first memory and a memory controller. The first memory may comprise a first area and a second area and may be configured to provide data from the first area to the second area. The memory controller may comprise a scoreboard configured to indicate that a first sub data of a first set of sub data of the data has been provided from the first area to the second area. Based on the scoreboard the memory controller may be configured to perform processing of the first request of the first device by using the first sub data while other sub data of the first set of sub data is being provided from the first area to the second area.

According to still another embodiment there is provided a semiconductor device. The semiconductor device may include a first register set including a first set of registers. The first set of registers may configured to indicate whether a first operation is being performed on a second area of a memory including a first area and the second area and indicate whether the first operation is completed on a first sub area of a first set of sub areas of the second area. The semiconductor device may be configured to while the first operation is being performed on the other sub areas of the second area perform a second operation using the result of the first operation on the first sub area.

Hereinafter various example embodiments of the present inventive concept will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. However the present inventive concept is not limited thereto and it will be understood that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the following claims. That is descriptions on particular structures or functions may be presented merely for explaining exemplary embodiments of the present inventive concept.

Terms used in the present specification are used for explaining a specific exemplary embodiment not for limiting the present inventive concept. Thus an expression used in a singular form in the present specification also includes the expression in its plural form unless clearly specified otherwise in context. Also terms such as include including comprise and or comprising may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements or combinations thereof.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical or scientific terms have the same meanings as those generally understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the present inventive concept may pertain. The terms as those defined in generally used dictionaries are construed to have meanings matching that in the context of related technology and unless clearly defined otherwise are not construed to be ideally or excessively formal.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Expressions such as at least one of when preceding a list of elements modify the entire list of elements and do not modify the individual elements of the list.

It will be understood that although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. Unless indicated otherwise these elements are used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element discussed below could be termed a second element without departing from the teachings of the present inventive concept. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

In an embodiment of the present inventive concept a three dimensional 3D memory array is provided. The 3D memory array is monolithically formed in one or more physical levels of arrays of memory cells having an active area disposed above a silicon substrate and circuitry associated with the operation of those memory cells whether such associated circuitry is above or within such substrate. The term monolithic means that layers of each level of the array are directly deposited on the layers of each underlying level of the array.

In an embodiment of the present inventive concept the 3D memory array includes vertical NAND strings that are vertically oriented such that at least one memory cell is located over another memory cell. The at least one memory cell may comprise a charge trap layer.

The following patent documents which are hereby incorporated by reference describe suitable configurations for three dimensional memory arrays in which the three dimensional memory array is configured as a plurality of levels with word lines and or bit lines shared between levels U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 679 133 8 553 466 8 654 587 8 559 235 and US Pat. Pub. No. 2011 0233648.

Referring to the electronic device may include one or more devices. illustrates the electronic device which includes a first device and a second device . As used herein a device may refer to various items such as a semiconductor device a semiconductor chip a memory chip a logic chip a package or combinations thereof. A semiconductor device such as a semiconductor chip a memory chip or a logic chip may be formed from a wafer. A device may include one or more chips stacked on a package substrate or a package on package device including a plurality of packages. An electronic device as used herein may refer to one of these devices and may also include products that include these devices such as a memory module a hard drive including additional components a mobile phone laptop tablet desktop camera server or other consumer electronic device etc.

The first device may include a central processing unit CPU and a memory interface which are connected to a bus . The CPU controls execution of an application requested by a user. The memory interface provides an interface to transmit or receive data needed for executing the application which is requested by the CPU. A request as used herein may refer to an application for processing data from to a predetermined area of a memory.

The first device may include various Intellectual Properties IPs as illustrated in in addition to the CPU and the memory interface connected to the bus . For example the first device may be an application processor AP including a 3 dimensional 3D engine video codec a display system a camera system a post processor and a peripheral or connectivity which are connected to the bus interconnector . One of the IPs of like the CPU may request transmission or receiving of data through the memory interface to execute an application. However for convenience of explanation the following description is of an example of the CPU of requesting transmission or receiving of data.

Referring back to the memory interface communicates with the CPU via the bus . For example when a protocol of the bus is advanced microcontroller bus architecture AMBA in a READ transaction of the CPU the memory interface transmits data corresponding to an address as HRDATA to the CPU and in a WRITE transaction of the CPU the memory interface stores the data corresponding to the address as HWDATA in a register not shown included in the memory interface . The address is transmitted via the bus in an address phase and the data is transmitted via the bus in a data phase.

Referring to the CPU and the memory interface transmit addresses A A and A via the bus in the address phase and pieces of data D D D D and D respectively corresponding to addresses A A and A in the data phase. Processing of each of the addresses A A and A may be referred to as a transaction that is a work unit. Accordingly each transaction may include at least one piece of data as illustrated in . Each of the pieces of data may be transmitted or received in units of data via the bus . For example one piece of data D may be transmitted or received via the bus during one cycle of a clock signal. Although illustrate that all pieces of data included in the same transaction are sequentially transmitted for example the data D of a transaction A may be transmitted when a certain number of clocks pass after the data D is transmitted through the bus .

As illustrated in after a preceding transaction is completed a next transaction may be generated. For example after all data D D included in the preceding transaction A are transmitted the transactions A and A may be performed. Alternatively according to an example of the transactions may be performed in out of order execution. For example the transactions A and A may be performed before the transaction A is completed.

Referring back to the data processed by the first device according to the above operation may be transmitted by the memory interface to the second device via a communication channel . Alternatively the data received from the second chip via the memory interface may be processed by the first device according to the above operation. The communication channel may be provided in a wired or wireless manner. Data may be transmitted or received in units of transactions between the first device and the second device . The transaction unit may vary according to a transmission subject. For example the amount of a transaction to be transmitted may differ from when the CPU of requests the second device to process data and a post processing processor not shown requests the second device to process data.

The second device is a memory system including a memory controller including a scoreboard a main memory e.g. a first memory and a storage e.g. a second memory . The memory controller processes a request from the first device . For example the memory controller controls data write to or data read from the main memory and the storage . For example the memory controller may control an operation of loading writing the data stored in the storage on the main memory or storing the data loaded on the main memory in the storage which is requested by the first device . Also the memory controller may control an operation of writing the data received from the first device to the main memory or transmitting the data written to the main memory to the first device .

The storage may be non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM a magnetic disc an optical disc flash memory etc. The main memory may be dynamic random access memory DRAM or static random access memory SRAM . Additionally the storage or the main memory may be embodied by magnetic random access memory MRAM resistance random access memory RRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM phase change memory PCM etc.

The memory controller may use firmware to perform the above control operation. The firmware may be provided as software. Also when the storage is flash memory a flash translation layer FTL may be used as firmware. The firmware may perform a management operation such as garbage collection wear levelling etc. to control the flash memory. In addition the firmware may perform a conversion operation between a logical address transmitted from the first device and a physical address of the storage . The memory controller may include one or more register sets for storing information related to the above control. The firmware may be for example stored in the storage such as flash memory and then loaded on the main memory when the memory system is turned on.

In one embodiment the second device may include one or more chips stacked on a semiconductor substrate. For example each of the memory controller the main memory and the storage may include one or more chips or one or more chips stacked on a semiconductor substrate. In one embodiment the second device may include one or more packages or a package on package device including a plurality of packages. For example a package may include one or more chips stacked on a package substrate.

Referring to in addition to the above control operation the memory controller may control an operation of copying data in a first area   of the main memory to a second area   of the main memory . The first area   of the main memory is an area assigned to for example an operating system and the second area   is an area assigned to for example the execution of an application. When a plurality of applications are executed in the electronic device the second area   may be assigned to each of the applications. For example when the data in the first area   is requested for the execution of an application the data in the first area   may be copied to the second area  . The application may perform an operation of using the data copied to the second area  .

An operation of providing data or producing data like the operation of copying the data in the first area   to the second area   is referred to as a first operation unless described otherwise below. Also an operation of using the data copied to the second area   or consuming data is referred to as a second operation unless described otherwise below.

However the present inventive concept is not limited thereto. When data is being provided from the first area to the second area the data may be provided from a plurality of first areas to one second area. Also when an operation of image operation or arithmetic operation is performed in addition to a copy operation the first operation and the second operation may be performed together as described above. Although the memory controller is described as performing a control operation in response to a request REQ of the first device the present inventive concept is not limited thereto. In one embodiment the memory controller may perform the above described control operation based on an internal request of the second device . For example the memory controller may perform the above described control operation when performing for example the garbage collection or wear levelling of the storage that is flash memory. Also the second device may further include a processor not shown to execute an application in addition to the main memory and the storage . For example the second device may perform the above described control operation in response to a request REQ of the processor.

Referring to the scoreboard stores information about a degree of progression of the first operation when the first operation is being performed. For example the scoreboard may store an in use bit indicating whether the first operation is being performed in the second area   a tag TAG indicating a start address of the second area   and a plurality of full empty bits respectively indicating whether the first operation is completed for each sub area of the second area   for example whether each sub data has been provided to a corresponding sub area of the second area  . Data that is divided into each sub area may be referred to as sub data. The scoreboard may include a plurality of registers to store the above information. For example the scoreboard may include a first register RG for storing the in use bit a second register RG for storing the tag and third registers RG RG . . . and RGfor storing each of the full empty bits. For example for the single second area   one register set RSET including the first register RG to the third registers RG RG . . . and RGmay be assigned to the scoreboard .

In one embodiment each size of respective the first register RG to the third registers RG RG . . . and RGmay vary according to the contents to be stored. For example when the first operation is being performed in the second area   the in use bit is stored with a logic value 1 . For the opposite case a logic value 0 is stored. For example the first register RG for storing the in use bit may be provided with a size of 1 bit. For example when the second area   is an area that starts from an address 0100 the tag may be stored with the address value 0100 . Thus the second register RG for storing the tag may be provided in a size of 4 bits. For example when the second area   may be divided into 12 sub areas the third registers RG RG . . . and RGmay be provided as twelve 12 registers. When the provision of data to any one of the sub areas of the second area   is completed a logic value 1 is stored in a corresponding register of the third registers RG RG . . . and RGand a logic value 0 may be stored in the opposite case. For example each of the twelve 12 third registers RG RG . . . and RGmay be embodied in a size of 1 bit.

Referring to the second area   may be set to a size corresponding to execution of a macro operation. The request from the first device may be received in units of macro operations or may be processed by the memory controller of the second device in the units of macro operations. For example one macro operation may include at least two relevant micro operations. The macro operation may correspond to the second operation of consuming the data provided to the second area  . For example a plurality of write operations e.g. micro operations corresponding to consecutive addresses may be processed with one macro operation. For example when the macro operation is an operation of processing data of 48 Kbytes the second area   may be set to be 48 Kbytes.

In one embodiment the scoreboard may indicate a degree of progression of the first operation in the second area   of 48 Kbytes. For example if one sub area has 64 Bytes then the second area   may be divided in 750 sub areas and may include 750 third registers RG RG . . . and RG. For example each of the 750 third registers RG RG . . . and RGmay store a full empty bit that indicates whether the provision of data to each of 750 sub areas each having a size of 64 Bytes of the second area   is completed. For example when the provision of data to the second sub area of the second area   is completed the logic value 1 is stored in the third registers RG and RG of the third registers RG RG . . . and RGand the logic value 0 may be stored in the other third registers RG RG . . . and RG

In one embodiment in performing a macro operation a desired size of the second area   may vary. For example the scoreboard of may indicate whether the first operation is being performed in second areas AREA and AREA each corresponding to a size of 48 Kbyte. For example when a first macro operation is an operation that requires the provision of 96 Kbyte data to perform the first macro operation the scoreboard may assign two sets of registers RSET and REST respectively corresponding to the second areas AREA and AREA.

Referring to the third registers RG RG . . . and RGof a first register set REST for the second area AREA and the third registers RG RG . . . and RGof a second register set REST for the second area AREA are provided in the same number x where x is a positive integer greater than or equal to 2 but may store information full empty bit about the provision of data in different units. For example while each of third registers RG RG . . . and RGof the first register set REST of the scoreboard for the second area AREA indicates whether to provide data in units of 64 Bytes each of third registers RG RG . . . and RGof the second register set REST of the scoreboard for the second area AREA may indicate whether to provide data in a unit different from the units of 64 Bytes of the first register set REST.

In one embodiment the memory controller may set the second area   corresponding to the size of data needed for the second operation and a register set of the scoreboard for the set second area  . For example the memory controller may set the data to be provided to the second area AREA for the first macro operation that is the second operation requiring the provision of 48 Kbyte data and may set the first register set RSET of the scoreboard which indicates including seven hundred and fifty 750 third registers RG RG . . . and RGand whether to provide data in units of 64 Bytes to correspond to the second area AREA. Also the memory controller may set the data to be provided to the second area AREA for the first macro operation that is the second operation requiring the provision of 96 Kbyte data and may set the second register set RSET of the scoreboard which indicates including seven hundred and fifty 750 third registers RG RG . . . and RGand whether to provide data in a unit different from the unit of 64 Bytes e.g. 128 Bytes to correspond to the second area AREA.

Referring to the third registers RG RG . . . and RGof the first register set RSET for the second area AREA and the third registers RG RG . . . and RGof the second register set RSET for the second area AREA are provided in different numbers. For example x number of third registers RG RG . . . and RGmay be provided in the first register set RSET and y number of third registers RG RG . . . and RG where y x y is a positive integer greater than or equal to 2 may be provided in the second register set RSET. For example compared to the above described embodiment the memory controller may set the data to be provided to the second area AREA for the first macro operation that is the second operation requiring the provision of 48 Kbyte data and may set the first register set RSET of the scoreboard which indicates including seven hundred and fifty 750 third registers RG RG . . . and RGand whether to provide data in the units of 64 Bytes to correspond to the second area AREA. Also the memory controller may set the data to be provided to the second area AREA for the first macro operation that is the second operation requiring the provision of 96 Kbyte data and may set the second register set RSET of the scoreboard which indicates including one thousand and five hundred 1500 third registers RG RG . . . and RGand whether to provide data in units of 64 Bytes to correspond to the second area AREA.

Furthermore when each register set is set to correspond to data size of the second area having a larger size than the size of the data needed for the second operation some of the third registers of the register set may be set to have a null value. As described above according to an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept the register set of the scoreboard may be set to be optimal for the execution of the second operation. As described above the above control may be performed by changing the physical structure of the register set of the scoreboard or by changing the control of the memory controller without changing the structure thereof. The former may be referred to as hardware control and the latter may be referred to as software control. In the latter case the memory controller may differently set the size of a sub area indicated by the third register of the register set according to the size of the desired data.

Although in the above description the scoreboard indicates whether to perform the first operation with the information stored in the register set that is hardware the present inventive concept is not limited thereto. The scoreboard may be embodied by a table in which each of the second areas is used as an index and the in use bit the tag and the full empty bit for each second area are used as entry. Also although illustrates that the scoreboard is located inside the memory controller the present inventive concept is not limited thereto and the scoreboard may be located outside the memory controller .

As described above the request transmitted by the first device may be in units of macro operations and when the memory access request is received the memory controller communicating with the first device checks the scoreboard S . For example while a copy operation is being performed based on the memory access request from the first area   of the main memory to the second area   of the memory controller checks whether the second operation requested by the memory access request is completely or partially performable by referring to the third registers RG RG . . . and RGof the first register set RSET of the scoreboard of S . Whether the second operation is completely or partially performable is determined based on whether the data needed for completely or partially performing the second operation has been provided or copied to the second area  .

Whether the second operation is completely or partially performable may be checked in units of the third registers RG RG . . . and RG. For example when the 48 Kbyte data of the first area   of the main memory is needed to be copied to the second area   in order to perform the second operation and each of the third registers RG RG . . . and RGof the first register set RSET indicates that data is copied in units of 64 Bytes an operation of checking the scoreboard S may be checked in units of 64 Bytes about progression of the second operation. An example of the above operations will be described in detail below.

If the second operation is completely or partially performable YES of S a performable part of the second operation is performed S . When the second operation is not completed NO of S the scoreboard is checked again S and whether the other part of the second operation is performable is checked S . If no part of the second operation is performable NO of S interlock of the second operation is instructed S . Then the scoreboard is checked again S and the procedure is held off until the whole or part of the second operation is performable YES of S . If the second operation is completed YES of S the register set of the scoreboard may be reset.

Referring to the memory controller may include a control circuit   a scoreboard checking circuit   a performing circuit   and a scoreboard updating circuit  . The control circuit   receives a request REQ from the first device and to process the request REQ generates a first control signal XCON to control the performing circuit   the scoreboard checking circuit   and the scoreboard updating circuit  . However for convenience of explanation the first control signal XCON is transmitted to the scoreboard checking circuit   as illustrated in . As described above the request REQ from the first device may be received or processed in units of macro operations.

The scoreboard checking circuit   in response to the first control signal XCON may check a degree of copying from the first area   to the second area   in the main memory . The scoreboard checking circuit   in response to the first control signal XCON may check a degree of copying data from the first area   to the second area   in the main memory and may generate a second control signal XCON. For example whether a register set of the second area   is prepared is checked by checking a tag value of the second register RG of the register set RSET of . Whether the copy operation to the second area   is being performed is checked by checking an in use bit value of the first register RG . It may be checked whether the data has been provided up to which part of the sub area of the second area   by checking full empty bit values of the third registers RG RG . . . and RG. For example while a copy operation is being performed with respect to an address 0100 of the second area   the scoreboard checking circuit   may generate the second control signal XCON indicating whether data requiring the second operation to be performed by the performing circuit   is copied to the second area and transmit the generated second control signal XCON to the performing circuit  .

For example to perform the second operation requested for execution of an application from the first device the performing circuit   may perform the request REQ to the sub data that is completely transmitted to the second area and then may generate a third control signal XCON that is information about a result thereof and transmit the third control signal XCON to the scoreboard updating circuit  . In addition the performing circuit   performs the request REQ received from the first device in response to the second control signal XCON. For example when processing of the data stored in the storage is requested from the first device the control circuit   may transmit information about mapping a logic address received from the first device with a physical address of the storage as the first control signal XCON to the performing circuit  . The performing circuit   in response to the first control signal XCON may load the data stored in the physical address on the main memory or transmit the data to the first device . In addition the performing circuit   may perform transmission of data from the first area to the second area and generate the third control signal XCON based on a result of the transmission of data.

The scoreboard updating circuit   in response to the third control signal XCON updates the information stored in the register set REST of the scoreboard . For example the scoreboard updating circuit   stores information about a degree at which the performing circuit   in the register set RSET copies data to the second area  . For example when the third register RG of has a logic value 1 and the third register RG has a logic value 0 and then the performing circuit   additionally copies 64 Bytes to the second area   the scoreboard updating circuit   updates a logic value of the third register RG to 1 .

The scoreboard updating circuit   may generate a fourth control signal that is a result of the update and transmit the fourth control signal to the scoreboard checking circuit  . Unlike as described with reference to the control circuit   the performing circuit   the scoreboard checking circuit   and the scoreboard updating circuit   may transmit or receive the first control signal XCON the second control signal XCON the third control signal XCON and a fourth control signal XCON respectively.

Referring to the memory controller may include the control circuit   the performing circuit   the scoreboard checking circuit   and the scoreboard updating circuit   which constitute the memory controller of . The operations of the control circuit   the performing circuit   the scoreboard checking circuit   and the scoreboard updating circuit   of are the same as those of the circuits illustrated in . In one embodiment the memory controller of further includes a mode setting circuit  . The mode setting circuit   may receive a mode signal XMOD and generate a fifth control signal XCON. When the mode signal XMOD has a first value the mode setting circuit   may control the memory controller of to operate in the same manner as that described with reference to . For example as illustrated in in the first mode the second operation may be controlled to be performed for each predetermined circuit without waiting for the completion of the first operation. In one embodiment when the mode signal XMOD has a second value the mode setting circuit   may control the memory controller of to operate in the second mode in which the second operation is being performed after the first operation is completed. The mode signal XMOD may be transmitted from the first device or may be generated from the second device as a result of monitoring an operational environment of the second device . The mode setting circuit   in response to the mode signal XMOD may control activation of the scoreboard checking circuit   and the scoreboard updating circuit   or the control circuit   and the performing circuit   may control whether to perform the operation of the first mode.

Although do not illustrate the scoreboard this is merely for convenience of explanation in describing the processing of the request REQ. The performing circuit   the scoreboard checking circuit   and the scoreboard updating circuit   are electrically connected to the scoreboard and perform the above described operations. For example the scoreboard may include the scoreboard checking circuit   and the scoreboard updating circuit  .

Referring to when the second operation is performed while the first operation is being performed in a first unit e.g. a first circuit U the operation time may be reduced by T compared to a case in which the second operation is performed in series after the first operation is completed . The first unit U may be a unit indicated by the third registers RG RG . . . and RGof . In one embodiment a plurality of set of sub data may provide to the second area. Each of the plurality of set of sub data may include a plurality of sub data. For example when providing of a first sub data of a first set of sub data to the second area is completed before providing of other sub data of the first set of sub data is completed the second operation may be performed. As such when the operation time decreases a response speed of the electronic device or the memory system may be increased and thus a user may be provided with a better function. Response characteristics in a situation in such as particular I O that may be sensed by a user may be greatly increased. As the operation time decreases power consumption of the electronic device or the memory system may be prevented and resources may be assigned to other operations. Furthermore in the electronic device or the memory system according to exemplary embodiments of the present inventive concept as the memory controller performs the function of the main memory in a device a bandwidth required for memory access may be reduced.

Referring to the electronic device or the memory system according to exemplary embodiments of the present inventive concept may perform a third operation which may be performed by receiving data from the second operation. In one embodiment while the second operation is being performed by providing data the third operation may be performed by consuming the provided data. For example the electronic device or the memory system may perform the second operation using the result of the first operation on a first sub area of the second area while the first operation is being performed on the other sub areas of the second area. When a second application uses a result of the performance of a first application an operation involved in the execution of the first application may be the second operation and an operation involved in the execution of the second application may be the third operation. When the second operation is directly performed while the first operation is being performed in a second unit e.g. a second circuit U and the third operation is performed while the second operation is being performed in the second unit U as in the electronic device or the memory system according to an exemplary embodiment the operation time may be reduced by T compared to a case in which the second operation is performed in series after the first operation is completed and the third operation is performed in series after the second operation is completed .

Like the method of in the electronic device or the memory system according to an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept more operations regarding the provision and consumption of data may be processed in parallel pipeline as illustrated in . For example while garbage collection is being performed by a storage with the above described first to third operations the performing of four 4 or more operations may be requested. For example the operation time thereof may be reduced by T compared to the time consumed to perform each of a plurality of operations.

Referring to the electronic device may include a logic layer and a memory layer. The logic layer may be the first device of . The memory layer may be the second device of . The memory layer may include a plurality of layers. For example each layer of the memory layer may correspond to one of the second device of . Alternatively at least one of the layers of the memory layer may be embodied by the second device of . Signals may be transmitted or received between the layers of through a through substrate via e.g. through silicon via TSV . For example the TSV connecting the logic layer and the memory layer of may be a channel connecting between the first chip and the second device of .

The configuration of the content transmitting receiving system is not limited to the configuration illustrated in and an independent device may be selectively connected to the network . The independent devices may be directly connected to the network without through the wireless stations . The video camera is an image capturing apparatus capable of capturing a video image like a digital video camera. The mobile phone may employ at least one of communication methods among various protocols such as personal digital communications PDC code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access W CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM and personal handyphone system PHS .

As described above in the memory system according to exemplary embodiments of the present inventive concept and the electronic device including the memory system since a delay of the second operation of using the data provided to the main memory which may be caused by the first operation of providing the data to the main memory is reduced the second operation may be performed before the first operation is completed. Also an operation speed may be increased.

In the memory system according to exemplary embodiments of the present inventive concept and the electronic device including the memory system since the memory controller performs a copy operation in the main memory in a device a bandwidth required by memory access and consumption of power may be reduced.

While the inventive concept has been particularly shown and described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the following claims.

