---

title: Integration of offline activity records and online data records
abstract: A method of collecting and indexing data by appending a tracking identifier (generated directly or indirectly by a tracking company) into a data file, wherein the data file is acquired from a computer system operated by a user. The data file could be data collected by a form made available through a website hosted by a web server. Additional data collected from other sources (stored as a record), such as a computer system operated by an agent, would be associated with the collected data file by an inquiry management company. The collected data and associated records are forwarded to a computer system that tracks online users and visitors. The process can many computer collected data (other than the data file) about website activity with other activities that are independent of the website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342843&OS=09342843&RS=09342843
owner: 
number: 09342843
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150915
---
This U.S. Non Provisional Utility application is a Divisional patent application which claims the benefit of U.S. Non Provisional Utility application Ser. No. 14 524 949 filed on Oct. 27 2014 scheduled to issue as U.S. Pat. No. 9 137 360 on Sep. 15 2015 which claims the benefit of each of 

The present disclosure generally relates to a method for voice call and leads tracking and management and more particularly to a method for recording information related to voice calls and form submissions that are triggered or initiated from network based content and associating the recorded information with information collected by external systems such as web analytics software advertising platforms or phone systems about the caller or sender and managing said information.

Businesses commonly advertise through many different media in order to attract customers. Ads reach customers via a variety of modalities including for example online websites printed publications radio and television broadcasts direct mailings emails and other mediums in which customers are likely to view the ads.

Increasingly businesses are focusing their advertising efforts on online or Internet ads. As online advertising spending continues to climb there is a strong interest in being able to attribute customer actions to a particular advertisement or marketing channel. Actions that occur during a visit to a website such as for example submitting an inquiry form or downloading a file can be tracked and associated with other visitor information including for example a visitor source channel or a searched keyword term. However offline actions such as phone calls cannot typically be tracked in the same manner.

Current methods for associating phone calls with visitor data involve assigning a unique phone number to each ad created. In that case if a caller contacts a business via a particular phone number it can be assumed that the caller viewed the ad that displayed that phone number. This method of associating a phone call with a website visit is inefficient because it requires a business to purchase a large number of phone numbers such that each ad can be associated with its own phone number.

Another alternative involves dynamically assigning forwarding phone numbers for each visit and or page view. This method creates increasing uncertainty when the number of visitors and page views increases and or when tracked details are more refined e.g. tracking keywords vs. merely tracking all visits from organic searches. This is because a finite number of phone numbers are spread and recycled through an increasing number of possible visit information combinations.

For instance if an interior design company merely tracked visitor source all visits from organic searches would be assigned the same phone number. However to track each keyword searched a unique phone number would be assigned to each phrase. Thus sofa upholstery and couch upholstery would require different phone numbers. Since the business owns a finite pool of phone numbers which are dynamically assigned and reused this increases the likelihood that identical phone numbers would be reused frequently enough to render the system error prone.

Additionally if the phone number is displayed on multiple areas on the page this method would not be capable of disclosing which phone number a visitor looked or clicked at to call. Such data would be important for a business attempting to understand which area of a web page attracts the attention of visitors. To accomplish this with the current method a business would need to feature different phone numbers on the same page which would be impractical.

Furthermore the current method for associating a phone call with a website visit uses analytics collected by the call tracking system independently and does not connect the tracking to the website s existing web analytics system. This approach limits the availability of data since the website s analytics system specializes in collecting a wide array of visitor data. By connecting phone calls and call information to the analytics system the disclosed method unleashes a stream of opportunities for improved analytics and operations of a business.

Current tracking methods also interfere with the branding efforts of businesses as it may be desirable for customers to associate a particular business with a particular or memorable phone number.

Furthermore traditional call tracking methods involve passing a call through the mentioned tracking numbers which incurs charges based on the usage of the network associated with these numbers for instance per minute of talking time . For a business with substantial call volume the cost associated with such a setup is significant.

Lastly the transition to offline via either a phone call or form submission introduces challenges in optimizing online advertising. As businesses are increasingly interested in improving ad spend ROI there is growing interest to target online advertising by intercepting additional data about a user such as profile and activity. Thus tracking a user s web activity and using the data to predict interest and guide advertising display decisions is commonplace. However the utilized data is restricted to online browsing behavior. Since phone calls and form submissions generate offline activity and given the sheer volume of activity the ability to utilize this information to target online advertising is extremely valuable. The present disclosure enables information other than online browsing behavior to be utilized in the same manner as online browsing behavior in targeting online advertising.

In one variant of the present invention various systems and methods are adapted towards form submissions and leads tracking and management including a system and method for bringing form submissions and ensuing offline activity into an online context enabling the association of this activity with online data. In an embodiment when a user visits a web property a tracking entity intercepts a variable that has been generated by an online system such as an online advertising system content optimization system and the like to identify that user. In general the variable is generated for the purpose of tracking the user s web activity. When the user submits a form from that web property the tracking entity invisibly appends said variable to the form submission. The form submission automatically turns into a record in any inquiry tracking system a commonplace practice in systems for leads management customer service and the like . As additional information is entered into the record about the user s ensuing activity usually by an agent of the entity with which the user is interacting as a follow up to the form submission the tracking entity uses the variable and communicates the entered information to the online system.

The tracking entity translates the information into a format that the online system can parse and because it is accompanied by the variable that the online system has generated the online system automatically appends the information to the user associated with that variable. This results in richer data sets about users that can be used to better target online experiences including advertising content and the like. Since the offline information is communicated in the same manner as online activity despite it not being online activity it can be used with the same power and flexibility as well as in real time and anonymously. Essentially the tracking entity extends the capabilities of the online systems.

In a second variant of the present invention various systems and methods are adapted for phone call and leads tracking and management including a system and method for bringing phone calls into an online context enabling the association of phone calls with online data. This can be accomplished by tracking phone calls in the same manner as on website events such as form submissions. The terms leads and prospects generally refer to prospective customers herein. The methods and systems described herein may facilitate tracking recording and associating data about the online phone call and offline activities of leads or prospective customers. Advantageously the methods described herein can utilize a single phone number which can be an existing phone number belonging to or maintained by or for the target business.

The specific details which involve repeated communications between a user s browser website analytics system and leads database are more fully described below.

In an embodiment phone calls are tracked by associating activities of a User on a website to a placed phone call or call session. For example a visit to a link or a click on a website can result in a phone number and an extension being displayed. When that phone number is dialed and that extension is entered during a call session it can be determined that particular visitor activities resulted in that phone call being initiated.

In an embodiment a method of tracking calls and or leads is disclosed in which a User visits or enters a website triggering a request to be sent to a database. The authenticity of the request to the database is verified and a new record in the database is created. The new record may include a code such as a numeric code and can be sent back to the browser and displayed as a phone extension. As the visitor navigates the website the current page URL associated with the extension may be updated. When the visitor calls the business the visitor may be prompted for the extension. The entered extension may be used to retrieve the information that has been associated with that extension and a new record having a record ID may be recorded in the database. Using visit specific details collected by the analytics system a request to label the website activities with a code corresponding to the record ID may be sent to the analytics system. A URL may be generated based on the record ID. Once a phone call is analyzed e.g. associating the phone call with a particular extension or recorded data about a website visit the call may be forwarded to the business.

Following a hang up or disconnection of the call details about the call may be posted to the URL and may be associated with the new record ID in the database. The website may have an analytics system which may be queried for visit details associated with the record ID. Following the phone call the associated extension may be deleted and made available for re use. The method may be implemented as a system including one or more servers providing data related to the website and the database wherein each server comprises at least one computing system having at least one data processor.

In an embodiment a method for tracking a phone call and associating the call with a visit to a website may include receiving a request sent to a database stored on a computer readable medium in response to an activity on the website. A record may be created in response to the request. A code associated with the record may be generated. A call extension corresponding to the code such that the call extension is associated with the record may be assigned. A URL of a viewed page of the website may be associated with the call extension. The method may include tracking website visitor information relating to one or more viewed pages and may also include updating the database with the visitor information.

A caller may be prompted to enter the call extension in response to establishing a call connection. The information in the record associated with the call extension may be retrieved and a record ID may be created including such information. The record ID may be associated with both the call connection and the activity on the website.

A request may be sent to a website data analytics system to create a label such that the activity on the website and any data regarding visitor details e.g. any user information that may be collected or known are labeled with an ID that corresponds to the record ID. A URL based on the ID that corresponds to the record ID may be generated. Details about the call connection may be posted to the URL following disconnection of the call connection. An analytics system may be queried for visit details associated with the label.

A request may be sent to create a bridge and a call ID of an incoming call may be placed in the bridge. At least one call creation request to initiate a call may be sent to a Communications Provider. The call creation request may include a bridge ID that is associated with the bridge in a callback URL. When answered the call initiated by the Communications Provider may then be added to the bridge. A hang up request may be sent for any call ID that is not in the bridge. Any phone number that is associated with the call ID of an incoming call that has not already been stored in the database may be stored.

Following termination of a call connection an SMS may be initiated which prompts or requests a reply containing any additional details about the call connection. Any such additional details may be associated with the record ID.

In an embodiment phone calls may be tracked by associating a visitor s activities on a website with a placed phone call or call session. For example a visit to a link or a click on a website may result in a call now or similar link being displayed. Upon entering the website or when the link is clicked a request is sent to a server which responds with a phone number and extension. When the phone number is dialed and that extension is entered during a call session it may be determined that particular visitor activities resulted in that phone call being initiated and data from and after the call may be associated with the visitor activities. Advantageously the methods described herein may preserve the original call flow and deliver detailed analytics including which number on a page was clicked while utilizing a single phone number which may be an existing phone number belonging to or maintained by or for the business.

In an embodiment a method of associating calls as well as financial transactions resulting from such phone calls with Internet activities is disclosed. In particular a User or visitor may visit or enter a website and see a call now link. When the link is clicked a request may be sent to a database and a new record in the database may be created. The new record may be associated with a code such as a numeric code and may be sent back to the browser and appended to the phone number as a phone extension. When the visitor calls the business the extension may be automatically dialed. The entered extension may be used to retrieve the information that has been associated with that extension including the record s record ID.

Using visit specific details collected by the analytics system a request to label the website activities with a code corresponding to the record ID may be sent to the analytics system. A URL may be generated based on the record ID. Once a phone call is analyzed e.g. associating the phone call with a particular extension and or recorded data about a website visit the call may be forwarded to the business.

Following a hang up or disconnection of the call details about the call may be posted to the URL and may be associated with the new record ID in the database. The website may have an analytics system which may receive a request to associate the visitor details and website activities with an offline transaction. Some details of the transaction such as revenue may be manually keyed in to a computer system by a phone operator while other information such as the call cost may be automatically calculated based on a pre defined cost variable and the call length. Following the phone call the associated extension may be deleted and made available for re use. The method may be implemented as a system including one or more servers providing data related to the website and the database wherein each server comprises at least one computing system having at least one data processor.

In an embodiment a method of associating calls as well as financial transactions resulting from such phone calls with Internet activities using SMS is disclosed. In this embodiment details about the financial transactions may be typed in a text message according to a predefined format and sent to a central system which may further interpret the message into a format that can be sent to a web analytics system for recording a financial transaction associated with the Internet activities. Thus following termination of a call connection an SMS may be initiated which prompts or requests a reply containing any additional details about the call connection. Any such additional details may be associated with the record ID. The other steps in this embodiment are identical or substantially similar to the previously described embodiment.

In an embodiment a method for tracking a phone call and associating the call with a visit to a website and clicked HTML element may include receiving a request sent to a database stored on a computer readable medium in response to an activity on the website. The request may include an identifying attribute of the clicked element. A record may be created in response to the request. An identifying attribute of a clicked HTML element on the page of the website may be associated with the record. A record ID associated with the record may be generated. A call extension corresponding to the code such that the call extension is associated with the record may be assigned.

A caller may be prompted to enter the call extension in response to establishing a call connection. The information in the record associated with the call extension may be retrieved. The record ID may be associated with both the call connection and the activity on the website including the identifying attribute of the clicked HTML element.

A request may be sent to a website data analytics system to create a label such that the activity on the website and any data regarding visitor details e.g. any User information that may be collected or known are labeled with an ID that corresponds to the record ID. A URL based on the ID that corresponds to the record ID may be generated. Details about the call connection may be posted to the URL following disconnection of the call connection. An analytics system may be queried for visit details associated with the label.

In an embodiment a method of associating calls with Internet activities is disclosed. In particular a User or visitor may visit or enter a website and see a call now link. When the link is clicked a request may be sent to a database and a new record in the database may be created. The new record may be associated with a code such as a numeric code which may be sent back to the browser and appended to the phone number as a phone extension. When the visitor calls the business the extension may be automatically dialed. The entered extension may be used to retrieve the information that has been associated with that extension including the record ID.

The website may have an analytics system which may collect visit specific details. A request to label the website activities with a code corresponding to the record ID may be sent to the analytics system using these visit specific details. The phone call may be routed to the business which communicates with a remote system about the dialed extension. This facilitates analysis of the phone call e.g. associating the phone call with a particular extension and or recorded data about a website visit .

During the communication the extension is swapped for a record ID which is used in later communications to send and receive data about the call record. Following a hang up or disconnection of the call each system may send or receive details about the call along with the call record ID and may associate such details with the record ID in its database. Following the phone call the associated extension may be deleted and made available for re use. The method may be implemented as a system including one or more servers providing data related to the website and the database wherein each server comprises at least one computing system having at least one data processor.

In another disclosed embodiment of a method of associating calls with Internet activities a visit to a link or a click on a website may result in a phone number and an extension being displayed. When that phone number is dialed and that extension is entered during a call session it may be determined that particular visitor activities resulted in that phone call being initiated. In particular a User or visitor may visit or enter a website and send a request to a database. A new record in the database may be created. The new record may include a code such as a numeric code and may be sent back to the browser and displayed as a phone extension. As the visitor navigates the website the current page URL associated with the extension may be updated. When the visitor calls the business the visitor may be prompted for the extension. The other steps in this embodiment are identical or substantially similar to the previously described embodiment.

In another embodiment a method for tracking a phone call and associating the call with a visit to a remote website may include receiving a request sent to a database stored on a computer readable medium in response to an activity on the website. The request may include an identifying attribute of the remote website. A record may be created in response to the request. An identifying attribute of a remote website may be associated with the record. A record ID associated with the record may be generated. A call extension corresponding to the code such that the call extension is associated with the record may be assigned and may be sent back to the browser and appended to the phone number as a phone extension. The other steps in this embodiment are identical or substantially similar to the previously described embodiment.

Systems for tracking calls and or leads are disclosed herein. The system may include one or more non transitory computer readable storage mediums storing instructions that when executed by a computing system cause the computing system to perform a method to track calls by associating the calls with online Internet activities. The method executed by the computing system may include the steps discussed with respect to any or all of the above described methods of tracking calls.

In addition the system encourages each business to manage all follow ups and continue updating the lead record beyond the initial phone call via the system dashboard. By doing so eventually attaching to the record a figure value the business can attribute revenues directly to each marketing effort. This lead management often involves repeated e mail communications where either side the business or the lead may need to include file attachments. Currently accepted methods involve the leads tracking system provider storing such attachments on its own servers compelling it to charge for such storage.

The present disclosure leverages a business hosting platform which usually has ample unused data storage space to solve this issue while maintaining file privacy. In certain embodiments the method can involve 

To access any of the files an external hacker would need to either guess a long random string or know the exact filename message ID as well as the business ID neither scenario is likely.

These and other features of the present disclosure and the specific details will be more fully described with reference to the accompanying figures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of the exemplary embodiments. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to bibliographical meanings or any extrinsic dictionary definition but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the disclosure. The terms used herein must be understood based on the descriptions made herein and are defined herein according to the functions of the present disclosure. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. Descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

A Target Website is a website that a Business maintains on one or more server computers. A Target Website may display a phone number and or extension such that a visitor to the Target Website can contact the Business via the phone number and or extension displayed on the Target Website.

A User is a person who visits a Target Website or accesses any other network based content e.g. marketing property of a Business.

A Tracker is an entity and or service which is typically external to the Business that tracks and associates data related to voice calls made to a Business with data related to website visits and or other forms of accessing network based content of a Business. In general a Tracker can adapt to any external system or service that the Target Website selects provided that such system has a public facing application programming interface API that allows for remote calls for retrieval additions recording and or alterations of data. In some embodiments a Tracker may also or instead associate data collected after a phone call by a User to a Business e.g. data relating to a follow on purchase with data related to the User having accessed network based content of a Business e.g. a website . Tracker may communicate with other systems e.g. a Communications Provider Capable Entity Lead Manager Analytics Account Advertising Account or Foreign Domain via for example HTTP POST requests HTTP GET requests or a combination thereof.

A Lead Manager is one example of an external service referred to above e.g. a leads management system. Examples of suitable leads management systems may include those provided by FUTURE SIMPLE SALESFORCE and the like. A similar example may be that of a call management dashboard utilized by a call center such as FIVE9.

A Communications Provider refers to a communications service that enables forwarding incoming phone calls to pages of code. Possible examples of a Communications Provider include TWILIO PLIVO and BANDWIDTH.

A Tracking Number is a number that Business may maintain at Communications Provider. A Tracking Number may be a general number for online inquiries and may be configured to generically forward calls if no extension is dialed. Alternatively Target Website may maintain a phone number outside of Communications Provider and may have all calls forwarded to a designated Tracking Number at Communications Provider.

An Analytics Account is an account of an analytics tool system of Business which is another example of an external service referred to above and an example of such an analytics tool system is GOOGLE ANALYTICS.

An Advertising Account is an account with an online advertising platform which is another example of an external service referred to above and an example of such an online advertising platform is GOOGLE ADWORDS. The advertising platform can be for example any advertising platform that can accept remote requests and or imported conversions in the form of file uploads for example. The advertising platform may also refer to a media buying platform that incorporates information about a User s activity into its algorithms.

A Tracking Cookie is a cookie that may be used to track online activity. A Tracking Cookie may be associated with an analytics tool such as that provided by GOOGLE ANALYTICS or the like where the cookie can be the  utma or  utmb cookie utilized by GOOGLE ANALYTICS. The  utma cookie values are used to distinguish users and sessions and are created when a JAVASCRIPT library executes and no existing  utma cookies exist. The  utma cookie is updated every time data is sent to GOOGLE ANALYTICS. The  utmb cookie values are used to determine new sessions visits and are created when the JAVASCRIPT library executes and no existing  utmb cookies exist. The  utmb cookie is updated every time data is sent to GOOGLE ANALYTICS. Alternatively a Tracking Cookie may be associated with an advertising platform such as that provided by GOOGLE ADWORDS or the like where the cookie would be the globally unique tracking parameter or GOOGLE Click Identifier gclid utilized by GOOGLE ADWORDS. A Tracking Cookie may have a Tracking Cookie value that may be used to distinguish among Users and sessions. Such cookies may be created when the JAVASCRIPT library executes and or when no existing tracking cookies exist.

Note that although the methods introduced here are described as using GOOGLE ANALYTICS any other cookie based analytics system that uses unique values to identify Users and visits and that can be queried for visitor details associated with a label could be substituted. The methods may also be modified to accommodate an analytics system that does not utilize cookies and instead relies on user specific profile IDs or a similar unique variable to identify a user provided that the profile ID can be retrieved and queried remotely and that subsequent information associated with the profile ID can be recorded remotely.

A Remote Tracking Request refers to a request sent from a server to the Analytics Account using the Tracking Cookie value.

An Operator is an employee or agent of a Business whether real or virtual handling lead management on behalf of the Business.

A Foreign Domain is an online property other than Target Website where Business may display a phone number such as a classified ads website e.g. Craigslist .

A Scripted Inbox is an e mail account with a platform that allows listening for incoming e mail communication and forwarding the communication to pages of code commonly available with cloud computing services such as GOOGLE APP ENGINE.

A Capable Entity is Business with a system capable of collecting the sounds associated with strokes on a phone keypad e.g. DTMF sounds interpreting them into computer digits and communicating the digits as well as other information to an external system via the Internet. Such a phone system may be managed internally by Business or outsourced to a provider of such systems. Note that certain Communications Providers may also qualify as Capable Entity.

Refer now to which illustrates an environment in which the technology introduced here can be implemented. The environment includes a Business which has a website Target Website and a telephone system . Target Website and telephone system each can be but is not necessarily operated directly by the Business on a physical premises of the Business note however that hosting of the website and or operation of the telephone system may be contracted out by the Business to one or more third parties. The environment further includes a tracking entity Tracker a Communications Provider e.g. TWILIO and an analytics system e.g. GOOGLE ANALYTICS .

In an illustrative usage scenario a User accesses Target Website of Business by using for example a conventional end user device such as a personal computer A or a mobile device B such as a Smartphone or tablet computer. The User s access to Target Website may be provided through and by Communications Provider . In this usage scenario User is motivated by content on the Target Website to make a voice call to Business for example to phone system of Business by using for example his or her computer A mobile device B e.g. Smartphone or tablet landline phone C or other end user device. Note that in other embodiments described further below User s decision to make a voice call to Business may be motivated by network based content other than a website that User accesses such as an e mail video or micro blog entry e.g. Tweet from or associated with Business . The voice call can be connected via Communications Provider which can be but is not necessarily the same communications provider through which User accessed Target Website .

As described in greater detail below the main functionality of Tracker is to associate data relating to User s accessing of Target Website or other network based content to data related to User s voice call to Business or to facilitate such association of data. In some embodiments Tracker associates information acquired or recorded after the call with the data relating to User s accessing of Target Website or other network based content . Tracker includes and or uses a server computer system to carry out the aforementioned functionality and maintains a database to store the associated information. Additionally Tracker can provide such data to the analytics system to enable subsequent search and retrieval of the associated information. The computer system and any other computer system referred to herein can be any type of data processing device or system capable of performing the functions attributed to it in this description. Additionally computer system and any other computer system referred to herein can be embodied as a single device or as multiple devices acting in cooperation with each other. In the case of multiple devices acting in cooperation with each other the devices can be connected to each other directly or through one or more data networks such as a local area network LAN personal area network PAN or the like. Note also that database can be a part of computer system even though it is depicted separately in .

In the illustrated embodiment of User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . The request can be sent from User s browser to Tracker using a JAVASCRIPT snippet that Business adds to Target Website s code. The JAVASCRIPT may reference code on Target Website or Tracker. Alternatively Target Website may make a server side request to Tracker as soon as User s browser sends a request to load pages from Target Website before Target Website has actually loaded at User s browser.

Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which in turn generates a unique token. Tracker then stores the token at step and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link or button that enables phone calls to be made through User s browser. If the communication provider used were TWILIO the token would be used to initiate an instance of TWILIO Client which enables phone calls to be made through User s browser and would display a call link or button on the website page. User then clicks the call link at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token. At step Tracker verifies that the token sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker creates a new lead record in the Target Website s leads database table and sends back a record identification code to User s browser. The record identification code or call record ID mentioned herein assists Tracker in uniquely identifying the record in its database. If the token is determined not to be valid and authentic Tracker will ignore the request as it is not associated with an actual visit to the website. The token is used to protect Business from unauthorized phone calls initiated by hackers or malicious software. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account. If the Analytics Account used were GOOGLE ANALYTICS the request may be a trackEvent request labeled with the record identification code. User s browser then sends a connection request with the token and record identification code to Communications Provider at step . This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a uniform resource locator URL commonly called a web address based on the record identification code e.g. www.tracker.com call hangup script.php recordID 35 . The code instructs Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number or connect to Business softphone such as a browser based phone wherein a softphone refers to a software program for making telephone calls over the Internet using a general purpose computer rather than using dedicated hardware and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details from Communications Provider at step such as a call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. Finally Tracker connects to the Analytics Account at step and queries for all visitor details associated with the request labeled with the record identification code. Note that while the example of a URL is described here other embodiments of the technology introduced here may use a different kind of network locator for the same or a similar purpose as the URL in the embodiments described herein.

There are several alternatives to sending the request referenced in steps . In one scenario Tracker may utilize an identifier that has already been created. For instance Tracker may collect a Tracking Cookie and use this value in lieu of generating Tracker s record identification code. Tracker may also generate the identification code on page load in step .

Another possibility which would also eliminate the requests referenced in steps and may involve submitting the tracking data together with the communication request at step . In addition to providing instructions on handling the call at steps the code may populate the available data into a database of Tracker or another system such as Lead Manager. Note that in this alternative data related to accessing network based content is limited to the information available and collected at the time of the connection request e.g. information specific to the connection request cannot be collected later . This can be remedied by collecting and submitting a Tracking Cookie with the connection request and later using the Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request that incorporates a record identification code which would then permit retrieving information specific to the record at the external system via another remote request. In this scenario the URL may incorporate the data instead of the record ID e.g. www.tracker.com call hangup script source google keyword flowers. 

Yet another scenario may involve Tracker establishing its own tracking data which may be submitted together with the connection request at step . This data may be associated with an identifier generated by Tracker such as a Tracking Cookie or a pre specified identifier such as an IP address. If the data is associated with an identifier Tracker may elect to send only the identifier at step and use that identifier to retrieve the associated data later.

In any scenario where data is available prior to the connection request Tracker may utilize the data to route the connection request. For instance Tracker may decide to route a connection request associated with a visit from a web search to a certain destination e.g. network locator and a connection request associated with a visit from a banner ad to another destination e.g. network locator .

Note that in all of these scenarios Tracker may elect to use the data to assign records to a specific Operator. In this process Tracker may follow rules pre specified by Business. To further assist Operator in identifying a record corresponding to a phone call Tracker may instruct Communications Provider to announce some or all of the data to Operator prior to connecting the call.

If Business does not receive simultaneous calls or the likelihood of simultaneous calls is very low and Operator is generally available throughout the day call recording may not be necessary. In this embodiment the system would follow the flow chart illustrated in . Steps through are the same in as in . Then at step the connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker that creates a new blank lead record associated with the record identification code and marks this record as in call. This code replaces the instructions to record the call described in the previous scenario. The code then instructs Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number and User s call is forwarded to Business phone number. Operator answers the phone and refreshes the dashboard screen at Tracker at step . Upon refreshing Operator sees an in call record the one associated with the incoming phone call and opens this record to enter User s details such as name phone number etc. obtained during the call. At step Tracker connects to the Analytics Account and queries for all visitor details associated with the request labeled with the record identification number.

In another embodiment Tracker may maintain a single phone number for multiple Businesses. This allows Tracker to centralize all calls eliminating each Business need to hold a phone number with Communications Provider by Tracker holding a single phone number with Communications Provider which processes and forwards the calls to the appropriate Business. This call forwarding may be done with or without call recording as described above in depending on each Business individual preferences.

When the method is implemented in a primary context leads tracking system such as in Tracker can provide added flexibility by maintaining a separate set of database tables for each Business built around the fields of information that are unique to its needs. For example Business A may want a database built around a customer s first and last name a customer s company name customer s phone number and or any other fields of information that may be relevant. This enables Business A to store first and last name in a single field Business B to have a single phone number field instead of home and mobile and or Business C to eliminate a company field among other options. The table names in each such set may be prefixed with each Business username e.g. businessA leads businessA leads comments and businessB leads businessB leads comments and so forth. Since popular database systems such as mySQL allow a finite number of tables in any single database scaling the system may require dozens of databases with a single main database that holds each username and a reference to the database where all the tables relating to that username reside.

In this embodiment the system would follow the flow chart illustrated in . Steps through are the same in as in . Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which in turn generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call button or link. User then clicks the call link or button at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website. At step Tracker then verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker creates a new lead record in Tracker s leads database table associated with Target Website and sends back a record identification code to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account such as a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS labeled with the record identification code. User s browser then sends a connection request with the token Target Website s username and the record identification code to Communications Provider at step . This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. The code instructs Communications Provider at step to dial Target Website s phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details at step such as call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. Finally Tracker connects to the Analytics Account at step and queries for all visitor details associated with the request labeled with the record identification code.

In a fourth embodiment of the technology introduced here a User may use his her mobile phone to communicate with Business. Currently the ability to dial phone calls from browsers using plug ins such as TWILIO Client relies on Adobe Flash or web real time communication WebRTC which are not supported in most mobile browsers including APPLE s iOS and most versions of GOOGLE s ANDROID. However WebRTC is supported in a recent release of the GOOGLE web browser CHROME for ANDROID. It is contemplated that calls made from a mobile phone could still be tracked as in the embodiments discussed above associating each incoming call with the most recent lead record created at Tracker. However dropped calls and delays which are associated with mobile phones render such systems error prone. The embodiment illustrated in resolves this error prone issue associated with mobile phones in a customer friendly manner. At step User executes an action that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent from the accessed web page to Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker sends User s browser a token at step which is visible to User as a call now link. This call now link remains empty there is no phone number associated with it until User clicks the link. User clicks the call now link at step and a request is sent to Tracker along with the token. Tracker verifies that the token is valid and authentic at step . If Tracker determines that the token is valid and authentic it creates a new lead record associated with Target Website and a record identification code in Tracker s database. In step Tracker stores the record identification code in a temporary table and assigns to it an extension which may be a single digit such as 1. The record identification code Tracking Number and the extension are then sent to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account such as a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS labeled with the record identification code. Using JAVASCRIPT User s browser dynamically populates the call now link with the Tracking Number and extension at step . A call alert then opens in a pop up window on User s browser with the Tracking Number and extension. The User clicks call at step and the call is placed to the Tracking Number with the extension being automatically dialed. The call forwards to a page of code e.g. a page in a server side programming language for example PHP at Tracker that instructs Communications Provider to gather the dialed extension at step and submit it to a second page of code at Tracker along with Target Website s username which is identified by the dialed phone number. At step the second page of code searches Tracker s database specifically Target Website s temporary table for the extension retrieves the record identification code adds User s phone number to the database and generates a URL based on the record identification code. Tracker then instructs Communications Provider to dial Business real phone number not owned or forwarded to Communications Provider which is located from Target Website s username at step and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following hang up at step the URL at Tracker receives details such as call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. The record identification code and the extension are then deleted from the temporary table and the extension is available for re use by the system. Alternatively Tracker may instruct Communications Provider to forward the call to a fixed URL and when receiving details about the call from Communications Provider at step Tracker may use the From number to search the database for the latest record with that phone number which was added to the database in step note that in this scenario an extension may not be necessary . Finally at step Tracker connects to the Analytics Account and queries for all visitor details related to the request labeled with the record identification code.

In yet another embodiment the method can be adapted to integrate with any Lead Manager. In at least one such embodiment Tracker acts as an interpreter between Lead Manager Communications Provider and the Analytics Account. Tracker generates an ID or record identification code sends the code to both Lead Manager and Analytics Account and then forwards the call to Business. An example of such an embodiment is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which in turn generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link or button. User then clicks the call link or button at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website. At step Tracker verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker sends a create request to Lead Manager such as SALESFORCE which returns a record identification code. This record identification code is then sent back to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account such as a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS labeled with the record identification code. User s browser then sends a connection request with the token Target Website s username and the record identification code to Communications Provider at step . This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. The code instructs the Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details at step such as call recording URL and requests Lead Manager to update the record of the identification code with said details. Finally Tracker connects to the Analytics Account at step queries for all visitor details related to the request labeled with the record identification code and then populates Lead Manager. If Lead Manager were SALESFORCE for example Tracker would populate the Campaign object in SALESFORCE.

Another embodiment of the technology introduced here is illustrated in . In this embodiment the method is substantially similar to the method illustrated in except the method can be completed with or without call recording or any number of variables depending on Business individual preferences. At step a User executes an action that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to a Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which in turn generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link or button. User then clicks the call link or button at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website. At step Tracker verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker sends a create request to Lead Manager which returns a record identification code. This record identification code is then sent back to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account such as a setCustomVar request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS labeled with the record identification code. User s browser then sends a connection request with the token Target Website s username and the record identification code to Communications Provider at step . This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. The code instructs Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details at step such as call recording URL and requests Lead Manager to update the record of the identification code with said details. Finally Tracker connects to the Analytics Account at step and queries for all visitor details related to the visit with the request labeled with the record identification code.

Another embodiment of the technology introduced here is illustrated in . In this embodiment the method is illustrated as using alternate analytics software. Instead of using GOOGLE ANALYTICS as described above in the method may use SALESFORCE as the Lead Manager and CLICKY ANALYTICS as the Analytics Account. In the illustrated embodiment a User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which in turn generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link or button. User then clicks the call link at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website. At step Tracker then verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker sends a create request to Lead Manager which returns a record identification code. This record identification code is then sent back to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account labeled with the identification code such as a log request titled with the identification code to CLICKY ANALYTICS. User s browser then sends a connection request with the token Target Website s username and the record identification code to Communications Provider at step . This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. Tracker instructs Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details at step such as call recording URL and requests Lead Manager to update the record of the identification code with said details. Finally Tracker connects to the Analytics Account such as the CLICKY ANALYTICS account at step and queries for all visitor details related to the request labeled with the record code such as the log titled with the record identification code and then populates Lead Manager with the information. If the Lead Manager used were SALESFORCE Tracker would populate the Campaign object in SALESFORCE.

In yet another embodiment of the technology introduced here the method can be adapted to utilize short message service SMS also known as text messaging. SMS allows Business to associate a phone call with visitor data by communicating with Tracker via text messages. The same method can be used to send updates about a User record. This embodiment is illustrated in . At step User executes an action that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to Tracker once the requested resource on Target Website has loaded by User s browser at step . Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link. User then clicks the call link at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website. At step Tracker verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker sends a create request to Lead Manager which returns a record identification code. Tracker then sends this record identification code or generate Tracker s own record ID back to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account such as a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS labeled with the record identification code. User s browser then sends a connection request with the token Target Website s username and the record identification code to Communications Provider at step . This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. Tracker then instructs the Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker instructs Communications Provider to send an SMS message to Operator with the record identification code. For example the SMS may read reply with record identification code in beginning of SMS to add notes at step . Operator then replies at step to the SMS. For example Operator may reply record identification code John Doe JD Corp johndoe gmail.com 212 555 7889 Brokerage Firm Wants 500SF office 3 months Call back tomorrow to confirm appointment on Wednesday. Communications Provider forwards the SMS from Operator to a page of code at Tracker that parses the message body separating the record identification code from the rest of the message. The code then identifies the record associated with the record identification code and creates a note associated with the record using the latter portion of the message everything after the record identification code for the note text at step . Finally Tracker connects to the Analytics Account at step and queries for all visitor details associated with the request labeled with the record identification code.

In yet another embodiment of the technology introduced here the method can be adapted to utilize e mail. Such an embodiment allows Business to associate a phone call with visitor data by communicating with Tracker via e mail messages. The same method can be used to send updates about a User record. An example of such an embodiment is illustrated in . This method follows steps as described above for . Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker instructs a mail server to send an e mail from Tracker s e mail address to Operator with the record identification code at step . For example the e mail may say reply with record identification code in subject of e mail to add notes. Operator then replies at step to the e mail. For example Operator may reply with message subject record identification code and body John Doe JD Corp johndoe gmail.com 212 555 7889 Brokerage Firm Wants 500SF office 3 months Call back tomorrow to confirm appointment on Wednesday. The message is sent to Scripted Inbox which forwards all incoming messages to a page of code at Tracker that parses the message identifies the record associated with the record identification code from the subject and creates a note associated with the record using the e mail message body for the note text at step . Finally Tracker connects to the Analytics Account at step and queries for all visitor details associated with the request labeled with the record identification code.

Additionally the system can be modified to enable sophisticated remarketing efforts. Specifically Business may create remarketing lists associated with pre specified criteria within its Analytics Account such as event categories in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. Tracker stores the cookie values associated with the visit that triggers a phone call together with the new lead record and uses those values to send a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account at a later date such as when Operator marks a lead record as Converted in Tracker s dashboard. Essentially this allows Business to record information about leads such as purchases in a manner similar to e commerce transactions even if the actual sale occurs days weeks or months later and without any action taken by the lead. When the request registers the lead s cookie information is automatically added to the pre specified remarketing list just as if the lead took a pre specified action on Target Website. Using a combination of such lists Business can then segment for targeted advertising the customers that called but never converted. An example of the details of the method is outlined in for phone calls initiated through the browser and for mobile devices or softphones. The same process can be applied to contact or inquiry form submissions as outlined in .

The system can be modified to include remarketing tags which enable adding callers to lists later used for more targeted marketing. For instance events with different action categories can be added at different times throughout the call sales process e.g. when a call is initiated a call is completed etc. This adds the prospects to related lists and enables targeting for example callers who attempted but never completed a call. Further by storing a visitor s Tracking Cookie values such as the  utma or  ga cookie values utilized by GOOGLE ANALYTICS the system can also automatically add Converted events when Operator tags lead records as such which in the Analytics Account would be associated with the original visits that triggered the call. Tracker may also send multiple Remote Tracking Requests throughout the phone call. These may be in response to notifications from Communications Provider. For instance Tracker may send a Dialed event when receiving from Communications Provider the extension and identifying the call record ID. Tracker may also send a Connected event when receiving a notification that a call has connected to Operator whether through Operator s actions or a system at Capable Entity. This would allow Business to segment for advertising callers that hung up before connecting to Operator and or connect online behavior patterns to abandoned calls for instance.

An embodiment of this method is illustrated in . At step Business creates in the Analytics Account a separate remarketing list for each request type for example a separate remarketing list for each event category in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to a Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link or button. User then clicks the call link at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website and the Tracking Cookie values. At step Tracker verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker creates a new lead record in Tracker s database and stores the Tracking Cookie values. Tracker then sends the new record s identification code back to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account such as a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Call Initiated and labeled with the record identification code. User s browser then sends a connection request with the token Target Website s username and the record identification code to Communications Provider at step . This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. The code instructs the Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details such as call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. Tracker then uses the stored Tracking Cookie values to send a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account labeled with the record identification code at step . For example Tracker may send as a server side trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Call Completed and labeled with the record identification code. Note that the request at step may alternatively occur as a server side request by collecting the Tracking Cookie value and sending it to Tracker along with the token. Tracker then connects to the Analytics Account at step and queries for all visitor details related to the request labeled with the record identification code. When Operator later tags the lead record Converted in the Tracker dashboard Tracker uses the stored Tracking Cookie to send another Remote Tracking Request at step which may be labeled with the record identification code. For example Tracker may send a server side trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Converted and labeled with the record identification code. As with each of the previous tracking requests this causes the visitor cookie to automatically be added to the associated remarketing list at step . Using these lists Business may then create new lists with custom combinations e.g. Call Completed but not Converted. 

The remarketing method can also be adapted to the mobile devices tracking methodology as illustrated in . In this method Business maintains a Tracking Number. An embodiment of the technology introduced here is illustrated in . At step Business creates in the Analytics Account separate remarketing lists for each request type such as remarketing lists for each event category in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker sends User s browser a token at step which is visible to User as a call now link. This call now link remains empty there is no phone number associated with it until User clicks the link. User clicks the call now link at step and a request is sent to Tracker along with the token and Tracking Cookie value. Tracker verifies that the token is valid and authentic at step . If Tracker determines that the token is valid and authentic Tracker creates a new lead record associated with Target Website and a record identification code in Tracker s database and stores the Tracking Cookie value. If the token is determined not to be valid and authentic Tracker will ignore the request since the request is not associated with an actual visit to the website. If the token is valid and authentic in step Tracker stores the record identification code in Target Website s temporary table and assigns to it an extension which can be a single digit such as 1. The record identification code Tracking Number and the extension are then sent to User s browser. User s browser receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account labeled with the record identification code. For example the browser may send a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Call Initiated and labeled with the record identification code. User s browser populates the call now link with the Tracking Number and extension at step . A call alert then opens in a pop up window in User s browser with the Tracking Number. The User clicks call at step and the call is placed to the Tracking Number with the extension being automatically dialed. The call forwards to a page of code at Tracker that gathers the dialed extension at step and submits it to a second page of code at Tracker along with Target Website s username which is identified by the Tracking Number. At step the second page of code searches Tracker s database specifically Target Website s temporary table for the extension retrieves the record identification code adds User s phone number to the database and generates a URL based on the record identification code. The code then instructs Communications Provider to dial Business real phone number which is located from the Target Website s username at step and submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following hang up at step the URL at Tracker receives details such as call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. Tracker then uses the stored Tracking Cookie values to send a Remote Tracking Request which may be labeled with the record identification code. For example Tracker may send a server side trackEvent request categorized Call Completed and labeled with the record identification code to GOOGLE ANALYTICS. Then the record and extension may be deleted from the temporary table and the extension is available for re use by the system e.g. for another User . At step Tracker connects to the Analytics Account and queries for all visitor details related to the request labeled with the record identification code. When Operator later tags the lead record Converted in the Tracker dashboard Tracker uses the stored Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request at step such as a server side trackEvent request categorized Converted and labeled with the record identification code in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. This causes the visitor cookie to automatically be added to the remarketing list at step . Using these lists Business may create new lists with custom combination e.g. Call Completed but not Converted. 

The remarketing method described above in may also be adapted to contact form submissions as illustrated in . illustrates such an embodiment. At step Business creates in the Analytics Account a separate remarketing list for each request type such as separate remarketing lists for each event category in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. Business also places a Tracker code snippet on Target Website s contact form pages. User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. User then fills out an inquiry form on Target Website and clicks a submit button at step . Tracker s code snippet populates the Tracking Cookie values from User s browser into the form and submits the form to a URL at Tracker at step . Tracker then checks for the existence of either identical Tracking Cookie values or e mail address at step to associate either with a prior submission by User. If the emails exist Tracker updates the profile s Tracking Cookie values at step . If the Tracking Cookie value exists Tracker associates the new submission with prior submission s also at step . Tracker then uses the existing record identification code. If neither the e mail nor a Tracking Cookie value exists Tracker creates a new record at step generating a record identification code. Tracker then uses the Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account such as a server side trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Form Completed and labeled with the record identification code. When Operator later tags a lead record Converted Tracker uses the Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request such as a server side trackEvent request categorized Converted and labeled with the record identification code to GOOGLE ANALYTICS at step . In step this causes the visitor cookie to automatically be added to the remarketing list set up by Business. Using these lists Business may then create new lists with custom combinations such as Form Completed but not Converted. 

The remarketing method can be adapted to work with any Lead Manager. This may be done by creating a custom field for each lead record that stores the Tracking Cookie along with a custom Status field that when changed will trigger Tracker to send to the Analytics Account a Remote Tracking Request. Alternatively Tracker can query the external leads system in regular intervals e.g. hourly or daily and send a Remote Tracking Request for any updated or newly tagged records. Moreover the method can be adapted to track information on attributes other than a lead s conversion status that Business may possess such as indicated interests in a specific service category or demographic information. Furthermore the method can be adapted to other types of user lists that involve a recordable action taken on a website such as newsletter signups. Thus Business may choose to track and create specialized advertising for leads that sign up for a sports newsletter and indicate a specific interest in soccer using lists from its e mail marketing software such as MAILCHIMP. The method can also be adapted to record offline actions taken by leads such as a meeting with Business. In all of these cases sending the data to any external account such as an Analytics Account or an Advertising Account may assist in adjusting follow on advertising or simply facilitate Business efforts in analyzing how online behavior correlates with offline activity.

The method can also be used for other purposes. For instance when User revisits Target Website Target Website can collect User s Tracking Cookie and send it to Tracker. Tracker would then search its database for a match and communicate to Target Website information about User s previous calling activity as well as any applied tags sales and other pertinent data. Target Website may then utilize the information as needed whether to adjust content communicate activity to other systems and the like.

Note also that although the Remote Tracking Requests method is described here with systems that track phone calls using a single phone number the same method can be deployed with systems that utilize multiple tracking numbers. Thus Tracker may simply generate an ID to correspond to a phone number displayed on User s screen rather than corresponding to the extension and use the dialed phone number to associate the call details with said records. The remaining steps would be similar or identical to the method described above.

Furthermore the method can also be adapted to an automated scenario that does not require direct user intervention in order to record information about callers. This would typically involve additional systems. For instance using voice recognition technology the method may automatically detect a caller s expressed interest in a specific product or service and create and send tags based on this information. Alternatively using machine learning or other algorithms Tracker may automatically read information entered by Operator in a lead record and create and send tags based on this information.

The system can be further adapted to record phone calls as conversions in an Advertising Account the details differ depending on a visitor s device as described below. Further the phone extension codes can also be utilized in recording phone calls resulting from offline sources such as magazine ads by designating specific extensions for each ad which would be printed in the ad graphics or incorporated into a Quick Response QR code. These extensions and associated ads can be saved in a separate database table. The system will exclude these reserved extensions from usage when recording online conversions and compare any dialed extension against this table in addition to the temporary table to determine the call source. Note that this feature primarily applies to devices capable of scanning a QR code such as mobile devices since the phone calls are not generated through User s browser.

The system may be modified to record phone calls as conversions in Advertising Accounts by recording the corresponding Tracking Cookie such as the globally unique tracking parameter or GOOGLE Click Identifier gclid associated with GOOGLE ADWORDS. With GOOGLE ADWORDS recording the gclid parameter enables the system to generate a MICROSOFT EXCEL or similar spreadsheet software file that can be imported as offline conversions into the GOOGLE ADWORDS account. In addition the system can filter any records where Operator did not record additional data about the lead which helps avoid counting failed phone connections. Also prior to generating the file Operator can manually delete within the system any phone records that do not qualify as conversions such as sales calls or irrelevant opportunities. One such embodiment is illustrated in .

At step in Business creates in Advertising Account a conversion for phone calls such as an offline conversion type named Phone Call in GOOGLE ADWORDS. User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next at step a request is sent to a Tracker once Target Website has been loaded by User s browser. Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which in turn generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link or button. User then clicks the call link at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website and the Tracking Cookie. At step Tracker then verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker creates a new lead record in Tracker s leads database stores the Tracking Cookie and sends back a record identification code to User s browser. User s browser sends a connection request to Communications Provider at step with the token Target Website s username and the record identification code. This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. The page of code instructs the Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details at step such as call recording URL associates them with the record identification code and records the time of call as conversion time. Operator reviews the phone call log at step decides which calls should qualify as conversions and marks all the calls to be reported. At step Tracker generates a file that can be imported into the Advertising Account. In the case of GOOGLE ADWORDS this may be an EXCEL file with the gclid conversion name e.g. Phone Call and time of each conversion from the database. Operator then imports the file into the Advertising Account such as offline conversions in GOOGLE ADWORDS. This methodology results in step with Advertising Account conversion reports having more complete data associated with each ad incorporating different conversion types.

A simpler method than the one presented in is illustrated in . This simpler method involves sending the Advertising Account tracking code to User s browser upon completion of the phone call. This method is less accurate since User may close the browser before tracking is recorded. Also this method records all phone calls automatically which does not provide the flexibility of filtering some conversions. An example of such an embodiment is illustrated in . At step User executes an action that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to a Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker then sends a request at step to Communications Provider which in turn generates a unique token that is associated with Target Website. At step Tracker stores the token associated with Target Website and sends it to User s browser where it is used to display a call link or button. User then clicks the call link at step and a request is sent to Tracker with the token associated with Target Website. At step Tracker verifies that the token associated with Target Website sent by User is valid and authentic. If the token is determined to be valid and authentic Tracker creates a new lead record in Tracker s leads database and sends back a record identification code to User s browser. User s browser sends a connection request to Communications Provider at step with the token Target Website name and the record identification code. This connection request forwards to a page of code at Tracker at step that generates a URL based on the record identification code. The page of code instructs Communications Provider at step to dial Business phone number which is located in Tracker s database and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination the URL at Tracker receives details at step such as call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. Tracker then sends User the Advertising Account tracking code request at step or simulates the request from the Tracker server. This methodology results in step with Advertising Account conversion reports having more complete data associated with each ad incorporating different conversion types.

The Advertising Account conversions feature can also be adapted to the mobile tracking methodology described in above. This method requires Business to maintain a Tracking Number. An example of such an embodiment is illustrated in . At step Business creates in Advertising Account a conversion for phone calls such as an offline conversion type named Phone Call in GOOGLE ADWORDS. User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to a Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker then sends User s browser a token at step which is visible to User as a call now link. This call now link remains empty i.e. there is no phone number associated with it until after User clicks the link. User clicks the call now link at step and a request is sent to Tracker along with the token and Tracking Cookie. Tracker verifies that the token is valid and authentic at step . If Tracker determines that the token is valid and authentic it creates a new lead record associated with Target Website with a record identification code in Tracker s database and stores the Tracking Cookie value. If the token is valid and authentic in step Tracker stores the record identification code in a temporary table and assigns to it an extension such as a single digit like 1. The record identification code Tracking Number and the extension are then sent to User s browser. User s browser populates the call now link with the Tracking Number and extension at step . A call alert then opens in a pop up window on User s browser with the Tracking Number. User clicks call at step and the call is placed to the Tracking Number with the extension being automatically dialed. The call forwards to a page of code at Tracker that gathers the dialed extension at step and submits it to a second page of code at Tracker along with Target Website s username which is identified by the Tracking Number. At step the second page of code looks into Tracker s database specifically at Target Website s temporary table for the extension retrieves the record identification code adds User s phone number to the database and generates a URL based on the record identification code. The code then instructs Communications Provider to dial Business phone number which is located from the Target Website s username at step and to submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. Following hang up at step the URL at Tracker receives details such as call recording URL associates them with the record identification code and records the time of call as conversion time. The record and extension are then deleted from the temporary table and the extension is available for re use by the system. Operator reviews the phone call log at step decides which calls should qualify as conversions and marks all the calls to be reported. At step Tracker generates a file that can be imported to the Advertising Account such as an Excel file for GOOGLE ADWORDS with the gclid conversion name Phone Call and time of each conversion from the database. Business imports the file into its Advertising Account for example as offline conversions in GOOGLE ADWORDS. This methodology results in step with the Advertising Account conversion reports having more complete data associated with each ad incorporating different conversion types.

Further to the description of when displaying the sources of visits associated with phone calls and or contact form submissions Tracker may aggregate identical ads to provide a more insightful performance report. Specifically Tracker queries the Advertising Account periodically obtaining the ads content and targeting metrics. These are matched against Tracker s existing information. Within Tracker s database IDs of multiple ads with identical content and targeting metrics are given a single master ad ID stored together with the ad content and targeting metrics. When Tracker retrieves visitor source information from external systems each form submission or phone call record is associated with the master ad ID of the ad ID that was clicked rather than the ad ID itself . A similar process is performed on the search queries entered by User that triggered the ad impressions the system maintains a phrases table with an ID assigned to each phrase and attempts to match new search queries obtained from the analytics system against these existing values. If a phrase matches an existing record the existing phrase ID is associated with the record otherwise a new phrase record and ID are created. In addition to reducing duplication pairing this indexing of ads and keywords with User tags helps discover revealing patterns e.g. the ad keyword combinations that are most likely to generate sales.

This method can also be adapted to a situation where the website visitor requests a call from Business. This method works with any device. In this case User enters his phone number in a form at Target Website and clicks Call Me . The form is posted to a server operated by Tracker that verifies the request is authentic creates a new record in its database sends a Remote Tracking Request labeled with the new record ID to the Analytics Account generates a series of URLs based on the record ID and initiates a call to the number entered by User. When User answers the phone the call is forwarded to a page of code at Tracker that initiates a call to Operator while placing User s call in a queue labeled with the record ID. When Operator answers the phone the Operator s call is forwarded to a page of code at Tracker that de queues User s call connecting the two parties. Following hang up details about call are posted to the URL and are thus associated with the new record ID in the database the Analytics Account is then queried for details associated with the record ID.

An example of this embodiment is illustrated in . User executes an action at step that takes User to Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request is sent to a Tracker once Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker then generates a unique token stores it as associated with Target Website and sends it to Target Website at step . Target Website then displays a form with a hidden token field which is populated with the token from Tracker an empty number field and a call me button. User enters his phone number and clicks the call me button at step and the form is posted to Tracker. Tracker verifies that the token is valid and authentic at step . If Tracker determines that the token is valid and authentic it creates a new lead record with User s phone number in Tracker database and sends back a record identification code. User s browser then receives the record identification code at step and sends a request to the Analytics Account labeled with the record identification code such as a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS labeled with the record identification code. Tracker then generates a queue URL and response URL based on the record identification code at step and instructs Communications Provider to initiate a call to User s phone number with the Business phone as the from number. When User answers the queue URL is retrieved. The response URL receives a form POST following phone call termination. When User answers at step the call is forwarded to the queue URL and the record identification code is retrieved and used to create and name a queue as well as to generate a de queue URL while placing User s call in the said queue. The code then instructs Communications Provider to initiate a call to Operator at step with the de queue URL to be retrieved upon answer. When Operator answers Operator s call is forwarded to the de queue URL and the record identification code is retrieved and used to de queue User s call. Following phone call termination at step the response URL at Tracker receives details such as call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. Lastly Tracker connects to the Analytics Account and queries for all visitor details related to the request labeled with the record identification code.

Yet another embodiment enables tracking mobile phone calls that originate on Foreign Domain. An example of such an embodiment is illustrated in . This method is useful for analyzing activity from off site marketing properties by tracking phone calls originating in clicks on an ad placed in Foreign Domain such as classifieds websites e.g. Craigslist . Business creates a new ad record in a central database operated by Tracker at step specifying the domain name on which the ad will run e.g. craigslist.org. Tracker stores each ad at step which has a record ad ID with a corresponding URL that points to a web page. The URL is based on the ad ID and Target Website s username Business adds the URL in the ad HTML such as inserting it into a Call Us link within the ad and posts the ad on Foreign Domain such as craigslist.org at step . User visits the third party website sees the ad and takes action by clicking the Call Us link at step . The URL opens and a JAVASCRIPT snippet intercepts the ad ID and Target Website s username. After verifying that the referrer information matches the domain entered by Business at step a request with the ad ID and Target Website s username is sent to Tracker which creates a new lead record associated with the ad ID and Target Website the record is assigned a record identification number at step . Tracker then stores the identification code at step in a temporary table and assigns to it an extension usually a single digit e.g. 1. Tracker sends to User s browser the Tracking Number and extension and instructs User s browser to point to the Tracking Number for example using a window.location tel JAVASCRIPT command at step . User sees a blank page with a Call prompt.

When User clicks the button at step Foreign Domain may also decide to forward to Tracker details related to the call caller or network based content which Tracker may store communicate back to Foreign Domain or otherwise process. For instance if Foreign Domain is a local directory listings site such as YELP it may forward the listing category. At the end of the call Tracker may communicate back to Foreign Domain or any other external system such as the Analytics Account a confirmation that a call has been placed to the listing category. Tracker may also use this information to automatically apply tags to the call record.

After User clicks Call the call forwards to a page of code at Tracker that gathers the extension which may be automatically dialed at step . The code submits the extension to a second page of code at Tracker along with Target Website s username which is identified by the dialed Tracking Number at step . The second page of code looks into Tracker s database specifically at Business temporary table for the extension retrieves the record identification code adds User s phone number to the database at step and generates a URL based on the record identification code. At step Tracker instructs Communications Provider to dial Business real phone number which is located from Target Website s username and to submit details about the call following termination of the call to the URL at Tracker. Following phone call termination at step the URL at Tracker receives a form POST with details about the call such as call recording URL and associates them with the record identification code. The record and the extension are then deleted from the temporary table and the extension is available for re use. Tracker may also initiate a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account indicating that a phone call from Foreign Domain has occurred. Alternatively Business may generate a QR code that points to the URL and feature it on a print advertisement. When scanned with a mobile device User s browser would be automatically redirected to the URL creating a scan to call functionality otherwise identical to the click to call outlined above.

Another embodiment of this method is illustrated in . This embodiment leverages a Target Website s hosting platform which usually holds a large amount of unused space to store file attachments from incoming form submissions originating in Target Website. At step User fills out a form on Target Website which allows uploading file attachment and clicks send. Target Website s form processor forwards the form s contents to Tracker which stores the message and generates a message ID at step . At step Tracker generates a hash and salt value based on the original filename and the Target Website s ID and sends the message ID and hash back to Target Website s form processor at step . Target Website s form processor then uploads the file into a designated folder on the Target Website s hosting platform at step naming it with the hash preceded by the message ID. Optionally at step Target Website s form processor can forward all information to the Business e mail or Tracker can send a notification of a new inquiry submission. When Operator revisits User s record in the Tracker dashboard at step the form inputs and links to download the files are re generated from the filenames stored in the database. This methodology results in very secure file attachment storage as an external hacker would have to guess a long random string in order to view a file or guess the exact name of the file along with Target Website s ID and message ID.

The method described in may also be adapted to any Lead Manager provided that custom code can be inserted into such system. Alternatively the links to download the files may instead point to a server controlled by Tracker and incorporate the message ID and or Target Website s ID. The code at Tracker may use these to redirect to the file. Additionally the method may utilize any remote storage space other than Target Website s hosting such as cloud storage on DROPBOX for instance.

Referring to another embodiment of a leads and or call tracking system and method will now be described. As shown in in step User may take an action that directs User to a Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct User to a Target Website. At step a request is sent to Tracker and a new record in Tracker database associated with the Target Website is generated. The request may be sent to Tracker once the Target Website has loaded. Tracker may store a database of collected information as well as any phone number extension that has been associated with such information.

If Tracker determines that the request referrer i.e. the Target Website is valid and authentic a new record is created in Tracker database for example in the extensions table see that is dedicated to Target Website. Tracker may verify the referrer to protect Target Website from unauthorized phone calls that might have been initiated by hackers or malicious software.

Each record in the extensions table may be assigned a numeric code which may be used to match a website visit to a phone call by prompting the caller for an extension. The numeric codes may be consecutive integers starting from the number 1 for example and may be reused following a phone call or when the visit is determined to have ended as described in more detail below. Since the caller may be prompted to enter the code during the call it may be desirable to keep the number of digits contained in these numeric codes to a minimum such that entering the code is relatively user friendly.

As shown in step once the extension has been determined the system may enter the extension into the extensions table and may send it back to User s browser. As shown in step a JAVASCRIPT which may reside at for example Tracker or Target Website may be automatically initiated from User s browser following the display of the extension in step . This code may first store the extension in a cookie and then initiate an empty asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML AJAX request to Tracker. Following the first request a second request may be initiated sending a POST request with User s assigned extension and the value of a Tracking Cookie.

Tracker may update the record of the extension with the Tracking Cookie value. As shown in step on each subsequent pageview the uniform resource locator URL of the page commonly referred to as a web address as well as the extension may be sent to Tracker which may update the extension record with the URL value as well as record the time of the update.

When User calls the Target Website phone in the URL at step the call is forwarded to a page of code at Tracker that incorporates the Target Website username as assigned by Tracker. For example where Target Website is ABC.com Target Website may be incorporated in the URL as follows www.tracker.com call answering script.php username ABC.com. As shown in step the code at this page may gather the Target Website name from the URL and prompt the caller for an extension.

When the call is made User may be prompted to enter the extension for example via a query or an audible command. For example User may hear a phrase such as If you have an extension please enter it now. As shown in step when User enters the extension shown in his browser window the code may gather the dialed numbers including the dialed extension and submit them to a second page of code at Tracker that incorporates the Target Website username in the URL. At step this second page may use the Target Website username to find the appropriate extensions table and search this table for the extension or numeric code previously entered to obtain the Tracking Cookie and the last page visited.

The code may use the Tracking Cookie value to search through Target Website s calls and emails database tables for a match. In particular the code may extract the part of the cookie that constitutes the unique visitor ID and search the tables for records with cookie values that include the same unique visitor ID. In the case of GOOGLE ANALYTICS  utma cookies the unique visitor ID is comprised of the first part of the cookie value from the beginning up to the first dot. To accomplish the search the system may utilize a database querying language such as Structured Query Language SQL . If SQL were used the database query may be structured as for example SELECT leadid FROM ABCcom calls WHERE ga cookie LIKE ga cookie . Although SQL is noted similar queries in other database querying languages may also be used.

If a match is found the call may be assumed to have originated from a returning User and the lead ID associated with the existing matched record may be used when creating the new call record. Otherwise a new blank record may be created in the Target Website leads table and the new lead ID may be used when creating the new call record. As shown in step the call record may receive an ID. As shown in step the call record may be populated with the page URL and Tracking Cookie value obtained earlier as well as the phone number of User. As shown in step the code uses the Tracking Cookie value to send a Remote Tracking Request to Target Website s Analytics Account for example a remote trackEvent request in GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Phone Call and labeled with the record ID . The Remote Tracking Request may be performed either prior to step or following termination of the call in step described below or at both times.

Following the Remote Tracking Request at step the code may generate a URL incorporating the call record ID. Note that in other embodiments the URL may be generated elsewhere in the process such as in or concurrently with any of steps or . The code then may instruct Communications Provider to dial Business real phone number i.e. the number that is not owned provided or forwarded to the Communications Provider and submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. The real phone number may be stored in the database and located or accessed via the Target Website username. At step following hang up or termination of the phone call the URL at Tracker may receive details such as call recording URL and associate those with the call record ID.

The record and the extension that was associated with that particular record may be unassociated from one another i.e. the extension is deleted from the extensions table following the hang up of the call at step or may be performed at any time following updating of the record with the call record ID such as in step . Deleting or un associating the extension with recorded data may facilitate re use of the extension such that a new extension need not be created and the number of digits contained in future associated extensions may be minimized.

At step Tracker may connect to the Analytics Account and query for all visitor details associated with the label corresponding to the call record ID. In step Tracker automatically sorts through all records in the Target Website s extensions table at set intervals deleting records that were not updated within a predetermined amount of time. The intervals and amount of time could range from a certain number of hours to days and may be set by Business.

The method described above may use a simple extension that corresponds to Tracker s record of a website visit. This extension may also be combined with the existing extension logic utilized by Business by combining or pairing Tracker s extension with the extension already utilized by Business. The modified portion of the logic i.e. the portion of the logic corresponding to the extension corresponding to Tracker s record of the website visit may for example prepend or append Business extension. The two extensions may be separated by a predetermined fixed symbol such as the pound or hash key e.g. or star key e.g. Special Symbol . When analyzing the keys entered by User Tracker may use the part before the Special Symbol to locate the call record and the part after the Special Symbol to forward the call to an appropriate Operator or vice versa as may be desired.

In another embodiment the extension may be generated in response to another type of action taken by User. For instance Target Website may display a menu with options representing different departments in its organization and specify to Tracker the phone number within Business related to each department. Before calling Business Target Website may prompt User to select which department to call. Upon User s selection of a department and clicking Call a request may be sent to Tracker with the chosen department. Tracker may populate this information in its database and respond with an extension. When the extension is later dialed Tracker may use the department information to determine the specific phone number at Business to which to forward the call.

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in as it attempts to locate or look for the Tracking Cookie value in the extensions table before sending the extension. Advantageously this may facilitate detecting returning Users and displaying a consistent extension. At step User enters or visits Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. that directs User to a Target Website. In step once Target Website has loaded a JAVASCRIPT or the like automatically initiates an empty AJAX request to Tracker followed by a second request with the Tracking Cookie value. The Tracking Cookie value may be only available for retrieval following a second page load thereby necessitating the first dummy request. In step the method uses the Tracking Cookie value when generating the extension. The remaining steps through are similar or identical to the corresponding steps in the method described above with respect to .

A method of determining an optimal extension will now be described with reference to . As shown in step a Target Website may send Tracker a request to generate an extension. At step a determination is made at Tracker whether the request includes the Tracking Cookie value. As shown in step if the request includes the Tracking Cookie value the part of the Tracking Cookie that constitutes the visitor ID such as the first part of the cookie from the beginning up to the first dot in GOOGLE ANALYTICS  utma cookie may be extracted. In step the extensions table is searched for records with cookie values that include the same visitor ID. To accomplish this the system may utilize a database querying language. If SQL were used the database query may be structured as for example SELECT extension FROM ABCcom extensions WHERE ga cookie LIKE ga cookie . At step a determination is made as to whether a match was found. If a match is found the request is assumed to have originated from a returning User and as shown in step the extension previously associated with that record is used and the Tracking Cookie value is updated.

If no match is found or if a Tracking Cookie is not included in the initial request the method proceeds to step in which extensions currently recorded in the extensions table are retrieved and placed into a simple array or collection of values. At step a full array that includes all of the values associated with the extensions is generated e.g. all integers between the number and the highest recorded extension number . Thus a sample extensions array may include the numbers 1 3 4 5 6 9 10 while a corresponding full range array would include the numbers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 for example. In step the method may subtract the extensions array from the full array extracting all the values that appear in the full array but do not appear in the extensions array and may place those into a new array. To accomplish this the method may use a pre built computer programming language function such as the array diff function of the Hypertext Preprocessor computer programming language PHP . In the example above the new array would include the numbers 2 7 8.

At step the method may determine whether the new array contains at least one value. If the new array is not empty the system may select the smallest value from the new array at step . To accomplish this the method may use a pre built computer programming language function such as the min PHP function which obtains the minimum value from a set of values or the array shift PHP function which obtains the first value from a set of values. Although PHP functions are noted similar functions in other programming languages may also be used. If the new array is empty the method may return to the extensions table and attempt to obtain the highest recorded extension at step . If the method obtains a value the method may increment the value by 1 and return the result. If the method obtains no value then the method may determine that no extensions have been recorded and may return 1 .

An illustrative database structure in which the method may be implemented with the interconnections between calls leads pages and extensions is shown in .

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in as it allows Operator to associate phone call information with visitor data by communicating with Tracker using SMS. At step a User may visit Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct User to a Target Website. Next a request may be sent to Tracker once the Target Website has loaded at step . Tracker may send User s browser a token and User may see a Call link that remains empty at step . When User clicks Call at step a JAVASCRIPT may execute sending the token to Tracker. Tracker may verify the token and create a new blank record in its database associated with Target Website and may generate a record ID at step . Tracker may then use the record ID to create a new extension record and may send the Tracking Number record ID and extension to User s browser at step .

At step the JAVASCRIPT may send a tracking request to the Analytics Account. The tracking request may be labeled with a label corresponding to the record ID. The JAVASCRIPT may then populate the Call link in User s browser with the Tracking Number and extension at step prompting a Call alert to pop up on User s phone. At step User clicks the Call button on the alert calling the Tracking Number and automatically dialing the extension.

At step the call may be forwarded to a page of code at Tracker that gathers the Target Website s username from the URL and the dialed extension submitting both to a second page of code at Tracker. At step the second page of code may look up the extension in Tracker s extensions table dedicated to Target Website and retrieve the record ID. The code may then use the record ID to update the record with User s phone number delete the extension and record ID from the extensions table making the extension available for re use and generate a URL incorporating the record ID.

Tracker may then instruct Communications Provider to dial all of the phone numbers associated with Target Website and to submit details about the call following hang up to the URL at Tracker. Tracker may collect the phone number of the first Operator that answers and connect the Operator with User at step . To accomplish this Tracker may bridge the calls as described in more detail below with reference to .

At step following phone call termination the URL at Tracker may instruct Communications Provider to send a SMS to the Operator with the record ID. If the record ID is JD123 such SMS may read for example reply with JD123 in beginning of SMS to add notes . At step Operator may reply with another SMS such as continuing the sample referenced above JD123 John Doe JD Corp johndoe gmail.com 212 555 7889 Brokerage Firm Wants 500SF office 3 months Call back tomorrow to confirm appointment. 

At step the SMS may be forwarded to a page of code at Tracker that incorporates Target Website s username in the URL. The code may gather the username and message body separate the first word from the remainder of the message body and use the username to locate the appropriate database table associated with Target Website. The code may then search the table for the record ID that matches the separated first word to validate the record ID and may use the record ID to add a note associated with the record ID with the remaining text message body comprising the note text. At step Tracker may query the Analytics Account for all visitor details associated with the label corresponding to the record ID.

As shown the method described in may utilize fewer extensions than the method described in since extensions may only be generated when a CALL button is clicked rather than with every page view. Thus in the former method the generated extensions have the potential to remain significantly shorter. A Target Website that implements the method described with respect to in conjunction with that of may store all extensions in a single table. Alternatively Tracker may create two tables. For example Tracker may create one table for desktop extensions and another for mobile extensions of Target Website. To differentiate calls Tracker may assign a Tracking Number for each device type.

Alternatively Tracker may append or prepend a key or Special Symbol e.g. one or more symbols characters or digits to a generated extension. Thus for example with respect to the method described in mobile extensions may be appended a designated Special Symbol while desktop extensions as described for example in may be appended a different designated Special Symbol or no symbol or vice versa . When analyzing the Special Symbol inputted by User Tracker may for example read the Special Symbol and may use the Special Symbol to determine the appropriate table to search for the extension.

A method of both forwarding the incoming call from User to multiple Operators and connecting User with the first Operator that answers will now be described with reference to . The forwarding of a call to multiple Operators may be performed simultaneously. As shown in step when User calls the Tracking Number Tracker may send Communications Provider a request to create a new bridge or a connection between two phone calls. The bridge request may be populated with the call ID of the incoming call from User. At step Communications Provider may create the bridge may place the call from User in the bridge and may send Tracker the new bridge ID. At step Tracker may retrieve from its database the phone numbers associated with Target Website and may facilitate a phone call to each phone number by sending a request to Communications Provider. The request may include a callback URL that incorporates the bridge ID. The callback URL receives notifications about the call progress such as when the call is answered or completed.

At step the Communications Provider may initiate the phone calls sending to Tracker the call ID of each call. At step Tracker may store the bridge ID and associated call IDs in its database. At step when the first Operator answers the call First Answered Call the callback URL may receive a notification from Communications Provider. The code at the callback URL may collect the bridge ID from the URL and search Tracker database for the call ID of the First Answered Call. If the bridge ID associated with the call ID in the database matches the bridge ID gathered from the URL the code may add the First Answered Call to the bridge connecting User with Operator. Tracker may also store the call ID of the First Answered Call in its database as the answered call. At step the code may retrieve the remaining call IDs associated with the bridge and may send Communications Provider a disconnect request for each call ID.

At step following phone call termination Communications Provider may send the callback URL at Tracker a notification. At step a determination is made whether Tracker stored the First Answered Call ID in its database. If the First Answered Call ID was stored Tracker may use the call ID to query Communications Provider for the dialed phone number associated with Operator thereby determining the number to which to send a SMS at step . If the First Answered Call ID was not stored Tracker may use the bridge ID to query Communications Provider for the phone calls associated with the bridge at step . Tracker may compare each phone number from the phone call information returned by Communications Provider to User s number stored in Tracker s database and determine that the number that does not match User s number belongs to Operator. Although the SMS communications feature is illustrated with one method it can be adapted to work with other call tracking methods including the method described in .

Referring to an embodiment of a leads and or call tracking system and method will now be described. As shown in in step User may take an action that takes User to a Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct User to a Target Website. Several call links buttons or a combination thereof may be loaded on the page at Target Website at step . Each such call button or link element may have an Element ID for instance by altering the ID attribute of the HTML link tag. This Element ID attribute may be defined in the HTML or attached dynamically through JAVASCRIPT code.

When User clicks Call at step a JAVASCRIPT may execute collecting the clicked link or button Element ID as well as the current page URL and sending it to Tracker. Tracker may create a new blank record in its database associated with Target Website populate it with the Element ID and page URL and may generate a record ID at step . Tracker may then use the record ID to create a new extension record for example in the extensions table dedicated to Target Website.

As shown in step the system may send the Tracking Number record ID and extension to User s browser. As shown in step the JAVASCRIPT may then populate the Call link in User s browser with the Tracking Number and extension prompting a Call alert to pop up on User s phone. At step User clicks the Call button on the alert calling the Tracking Number and automatically dialing the extension.

When User calls the Target Website phone the call may be forwarded to a page of code at Tracker that incorporates the Target Website username as assigned by Tracker. As shown in step the code at this page may gather the Target Website name from the URL and the dialed numbers including the dialed extension and submit them to a second page of code at Tracker that incorporates the Target Website username in the URL. At step this second page may use the Target Website username to find the appropriate extensions table and search this table for the extension or numeric code previously entered to obtain the ID of the call record and may generate a URL incorporating the call record ID.

At step the code may instruct Communications Provider to dial Business phone number and submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. The phone number may be stored in the database and located or accessed via the Target Website username. At step following hang up or termination of the phone call the URL at Tracker may receive details such as call recording URL and associate those with the call record ID.

The record and the extension that was associated with that particular record may be unassociated from one another i.e. the extension is deleted from the extensions table following the hang up of the call at step or may be performed at any time following updating retrieval of the call record ID such as in step . Deleting or un associating the extension with recorded data may facilitate re use of the extension such that a new extension need not be created and the number of digits contained in future associated extensions may be minimized.

In step Tracker retrieves the HTML code of each page URL that is associated with at least one call record in its database. This may be achieved by querying the call records for unique values of page URLs provided that these have been standardized e.g. cleaned of prefixes such as http https or www as well as webpage filenames GET variables and the like . To retrieve the HTML code Tracker may initiate a cURL request to the appropriate URL at Target Website.

As described in step Tracker may use the HTML code retrieved in step to display a simulated version of the webpage with an overlay visualizing the click popularity of each call element. This would be calculated by summing the number of phone call records associated with each Element ID over a specified time period. Tracker may then utilize a color scale to visually indicate the popularity of each Element ID in triggering phone calls. For instance the scale may vary from red to blue with the most frequently clicked elements colored in red and the least frequently clicked elements colored in blue.

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a method similar to the one described above with respect to except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in as it allows Operator to associate phone call information including financial transactions with visitor information. This is accomplished by entering information in a system that interprets the data into a format suitable for sending to a website analytics system where such data is associated with the visitor information.

As shown in in step User may take an action that takes User to a Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct User to a Target Website. A call link or buttons may be loaded on the page at Target Website at step . When User clicks Call at step a JAVASCRIPT may execute collecting the value of a Tracking Cookie. At step Tracker may create a new blank record in its database associated with Target Website populate it with the Tracking Cookie value obtained earlier and may generate a record ID. Tracker may then use the record ID to create a new extension record for example in the extensions table dedicated to Target Website.

The system may send the Tracking Number record ID and extension to User s browser at step . As shown in step the code uses the Tracking Cookie value and the ID associated with the Analytics Account which may be stored in the database of Tracker. A Remote Tracking Request is sent to Target Website s Analytics Account such as a remote trackEvent request in GOOGLE ANALYTICS . The Remote Tracking Request may be categorized as a phone call and may be labeled with an ID corresponding to the call ID assigned to the new call record. As shown in step the JAVASCRIPT may then populate the Call link in User s browser with the Tracking Number and extension prompting a Call alert to pop up on User s phone.

At step User clicks the Call button on the alert calling the Tracking Number and automatically dialing the extension. As shown in step the call forwards to a page of code at Tracker that may gather the Target Website name from the URL and the dialed numbers including the dialed extension and submit them to a second page of code at Tracker. At step this second page may use the Target Website username to find the appropriate extensions table and search this table for the extension or numeric code previously entered to obtain the ID of the call record and may generate a URL incorporating the call record ID.

At step the code may instruct Communications Provider to dial the real phone number of Target Website and submit details about the call following termination of the phone call to the URL at Tracker. At step following hang up or termination of the phone call the URL at Tracker may receive details such as call recording URL call duration etc. and associate them with the call record ID. The record and the extension that was associated with that particular record may be unassociated from one another i.e. the extension is deleted from the extensions table following the hang up of the call at step or may be performed at any time following retrieval of the call record ID such as in step .

During the call or following call disconnection the system may display the call record to an Operator in a UI. The Operator may use the UI to enter information obtained during the call for instance the amount of sale revenue generated during the call. To help Operator distinguish the correct record to update during the call the system may automatically update the status of all current calls to IN CALL and may display such records in a separate list. To further distinguish among multiple concurrent calls prior to connecting the call the system may announce to the Operator the call record ID which Operator may enter into a search box in the system to locate the correct call record. Operator may then enter information about the call record in real time while on the phone with the caller.

Alternatively Operator may return to the call record at a later date to enter a sale amount when such a transaction actually closed. To locate the correct call record the Operator may listen to the original call recording refer to information automatically entered by Tracker such as the caller s phone number or consult information manually entered by Operator during the original call or at a later date such as the caller s name and any relevant notes.

When Operator enters the sale revenue Tracker may use the Tracking Cookie value to send a Remote Tracking Request associating a transaction with the original visitor data that triggered the phone call. The Remote Tracking Request may incorporate the sale revenue entered by Operator as well as additional variables such as a cost of sale amount. Such variables may be numeric or subjective attributes of the caller sale or any other aspect of the phone call and resulting transaction. Such data may be manually entered by Operator such as the number and level of agents involved in the call. Numeric figures may also be automatically calculated by Tracker based on predefined constants. For instance Tracker may use the original call duration multiplied by a preset cost per time configured by the Operator to calculate the cost of sale. Furthermore Tracker may subtract the cost from revenues to arrive at a profit figure and send such figure as the revenue if desired.

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in as Operator is given the option to update the call record with financial transactions by communicating with Tracker using SMS. Steps through are similar or identical to those described in the method described above with respect to . At step following a disconnection of the call Tracker may initiate a SMS to Operator s phone number with instructions on replying to Tracker e.g. Reply with PHONE 202 555 0169 in beginning of SMS in such a way that Tracker can interpret the Operator s reply and trigger a Remote Tracking Request as in .

Specifically Operator s SMS may be sent to a phone number at the Communications Provider which may forward to a page of code at Tracker. In the original text message body Tracker may include an identifying variable such as the call record ID or the caller s phone number. When replying to Tracker s SMS Operator may include the identifying variable sale revenue and similar pertinent information formatted according to a predetermined standard which may allow Tracker to utilize such data to search for the correct call record retrieve the Tracking Cookie and initiate the Remote Tracking Request.

For instance Tracker may assign reserved keywords such as PHONE SALE PROFIT ID or similar. These keywords may be formatted in a distinguishing manner for example enclosed in brackets e.g. PHONE SALE PROFIT and ID . Tracker may search the SMS for the reserved keywords separate the text between such keywords and use the data to populate the relevant information for the Remote Tracking Request. For example at step Operator may reply PHONE 202 555 0169 REVENUE 1 000 PROFIT 500 .

At step the code at Tracker may receive the SMS may discern that the text between PHONE and REVENUE or 202 555 0169 is User s phone number and may use this value to search the call records and obtain the associated Tracking Cookie. Using a similar method for the remaining text message body Tracker may interpret the SMS as a need by Operator to record a 1 000 revenue transaction with 500 profit for the Tracking Cookie associated with 202 555 0169. Tracker then may proceed to send to the Analytics Account a Remote Tracking Request with the financial transaction in step . Tracker may also combine information from Operator s SMS with figures automatically calculated by Tracker based on predefined constants. For instance Operator may enter the revenue while Tracker may use the original call duration to calculate the cost as described earlier.

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to and except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in and as calls are connected to activities on marketing channels other than a website for example e mail campaigns or classified ads on a website such as Craig s List.

To accomplish this at step Operator may create an ad record at Tracker for a marketing channel or activity such as an e mail campaign. Operator may enter a name for the record that matches the desired name of the source to show when analyzing the source of financial transactions. For instance Operator may name a May e mail campaign May E Blast . At step Tracker may store the new ad record may assign an ad record ID and may use the ID to generate a URL that incorporates Target Website s username and the ad ID. For example where Target Website is ABC.com and the ad ID is 23 the corresponding URL may be www.tracker.com call answering script.php username ABC.com sourceid 23. 

Operator may copy and insert the URL into the href attribute of the HTML a link tag at step creating a call link that when clicked triggers a request to Tracker s server. Steps through are similar to those in the method described above with respect to with no intermediate Remote Tracking Request step . When creating a call record Tracker may generate a lead ID an additional variable that may later substitute for the Tracking Cookie. In step Tracker may retrieve the lead ID associated with the call record as well as the ad ID and related information. At step Tracker may initiate a Remote Tracking Request as a financial transaction and may use Tracker s lead ID record in lieu of the Tracking Cookie and the ad name entered by Operator as the source. Furthermore step in may be substituted as well allowing financial transactions from off site sources to be recorded.

Although a name field corresponding to each source at Tracker is described additional fields may be added to fully describe the source. For instance GOOGLE ANALYTICS may record the Document Referrer Campaign Name Campaign Source Campaign Medium Campaign Keyword Campaign Content and Campaign ID among other variables. Tracker may allow Operator to describe each off site marketing activity in detail and may populate this information when sending Remote Tracking Requests related to the call that was triggered by each marketing activity.

Referring to an embodiment of a leads and or call tracking system and method will now be described. As shown in in step User may take an action that takes User to a Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct User to a Target Website. Several call links buttons or a combination thereof may be loaded on the page at Target Website at step . When User clicks Call at step a JAVASCRIPT may execute which may collect the current page URL and send it to Tracker. Tracker may create a new blank record in its database associated with Target Website may populate it with the page URL and may generate a record ID at step . Tracker may then use the record ID to create a new extension record for example in the extensions table dedicated to Target Website.

The system may send the phone number belonging to Capable Entity record ID and extension to User s browser at step . At step User s browser may use the record ID to send a tracking request to the Analytics Account such as a remote trackEvent request in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. The tracking request may be categorized as a phone call and may be labeled with an ID corresponding to the record ID. As shown in step the JAVASCRIPT may then populate the Call link in User s browser with the phone number and extension prompting a Call alert to pop up on User s phone. At step User clicks the Call button on the alert calling the Capable Entity and automatically dialing the extension.

When User calls the Target Website phone the call may forward to Capable Entity. As shown in step the system at Capable Entity may gather the dialed numbers including the dialed extension and submit them to a predetermined URL at Tracker along with Target Website s username. At step the code at Tracker URL may use the Target Website username to find the appropriate extensions table and search this table for the extension or numeric code previously entered to obtain the ID of the call record and may respond to Capable Entity with the call record ID. Alternatively Capable Entity may generate its own ID and may communicate the ID to Tracker together with the extension. Tracker would store this ID as associated with its own record ID. Thus the systems may communicate using an ID generated by either party.

At step Capable Entity handles the call as usual. Optionally Capable Entity may use the call record ID to source a section or module of Capable Entity s call handling dashboard from Tracker. Using the call record ID may customize the code of such a module to the specific call. For instance such a module may provide the option of applying tags or nicknames to a call record. When submitted the tags may be sent to Tracker together with the call record ID which would be used to apply the tags to the correct call record and may be included in communications with the Analytics Account as detailed below. At step following hang up or termination of the phone call Capable Entity may send to Tracker details such as call recording URL along with the call record ID which Tracker may use to identify the correct record in its database and update it with such details.

The record and the extension that was associated with that particular record may be unassociated from one another i.e. the extension is deleted from the extensions table following the hang up of the call at step or may be performed at any time following updating retrieval of the call record ID such as in step . In step Tracker may connect to the Analytics Account and query for all visitor details associated with the label corresponding to the call record ID. At step Tracker may optionally forward such details together with the call record ID to Capable Entity which may choose to store them in its database.

Alternatively the value of a Tracking Cookie may be included in the request to Tracker at step . Tracker may store the Tracking Cookie as associated with the new call record ID in step and may use it together with the ID associated with the Analytics Account to send a Remote Tracking Request to Target Website s Analytics Account such as a remote trackEvent request in GOOGLE ANALYTICS when Capable Entity communicates the related extension. This Remote Tracking Request may replace the browser based request from step . The Analytics Account ID a fixed variable may be stored in Tracker s database.

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in as it displays an extension on page load rather than when a link is clicked. This enables tracking of calls that occur when a User sees a phone number on one device e.g. a laptop computer but initiates a call from another device e.g. a cell phone .

As shown in in step User may take an action that takes User to a Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct User to a Target Website. At step a request may be sent to Tracker and a new record in Tracker database associated with the Target Website may be generated. The request may be sent to Tracker once the Target Website has loaded. Tracker may store a database of collected information as well as any phone number extension that has been associated with such information. Tracker may create a new record in Tracker database for example in the extensions table that is dedicated to Target Website.

As shown in step once the extension has been determined the system may enter the extension into the extensions table and may send it back to User s browser. As shown in step a JAVASCRIPT may be automatically initiated following the display of the extension in step . This code may first store the extension in a cookie then may initiate an empty dummy asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML AJAX request e.g. post to Tracker. Following the first request a second request may be initiated sending a POST request with User s assigned extension and the value of a Tracking Cookie.

The Tracking Cookie value may be only available for retrieval following a second loading of the webpage thereby necessitating the first dummy request. The Tracking Cookie may be associated with a web analytics tool such as that provided by GOOGLE ANALYTICS or the like. Tracker may update the record of the extension with the Tracking Cookie value. As shown in step on each subsequent page load the uniform resource locator URL of the page commonly referred to as a web address as well as the extension may be sent to Tracker which may update the extension record with the URL value as well as the time of the update.

When the call is made to Capable Entity at step User may be prompted to enter the extension for example via a query or an audible command. For example at step User may hear the phrase if you have an extension please enter it now. As shown in step when User enters the extension shown in his browser window Capable Entity may gather the dialed numbers including the dialed extension and submit them to Tracker along with Target Website s username. At step Tracker may use the Target Website username to find the appropriate extensions table and search this table for the extension or numeric code previously entered to obtain the Tracking Cookie and the last page visited. Tracker may use the obtained value to create a blank record in the Target Website calls table which may be assigned an ID. Tracker may then communicate the record ID to Capable Entity. The remaining steps through are similar or identical to the corresponding steps in the method described above with respect to .

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in as it enables tracking phone calls that originate on properties other than Target Website. For instance the method may be used to track phone calls that originate in e mail campaigns social media and other similar off site online entities managed by Business.

To accomplish this at step Operator may create an ad record at Tracker for a marketing channel or activity such as an e mail campaign. The Operator may enter a name for the record that matches the desired name of the source to show when viewing call summary reports. For instance Operator may name a May e mail campaign May E Blast . At step Tracker may store the new ad record may assign an ad record ID and may use the ID to generate a URL that incorporates Target Website s username and the ad ID. For example where the Target Website is ABC.com and the ad ID is 23 the corresponding URL may be www.tracker.com call answering script.php username ABC.com sourceid 23. 

Operator may copy and insert the URL into the ad for instance in the href attribute of the HTML a link tag at step creating a call link that when clicked triggers a request to Tracker s server. Steps are similar to those in the method described above with respect to with no intermediate Remote Tracking Request step . Alternatively when creating a call record Tracker may generate a lead ID. Tracker may later use this lead ID in lieu of the Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request with the ad name entered by Operator as the visit source allowing phone calls from off site sources to be sent to the Analytics Account.

Note also that although the method is described here with embodiments that track phone calls using a single phone number the same method can be deployed with systems that utilize multiple tracking numbers. Thus Tracker displays a phone number on a User s screen that forwards to Capable Entity. When User dials the phone number which is operated by Capable Entity Capable Entity sends Tracker a notification that a User dialed the phone number. The remaining steps would be similar or identical to the method described above.

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to differs from that described in as it allows Business to track custom information about each prospective caller. Such information may be related and or inferred from User s actions on Target Website including a selected language view customization product selection etc. This information may then be shown to the Operator answering the call and displayed in call reports. Optionally this information can also be used to verify the caller s identity and or infer the caller s intentions eliminating the need for User to navigate voice menus when calling. Thus Capable Entity may use the information to automatically route the call to the appropriate Operator.

As shown in in step User may take an action that takes User to a Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct User to a Target Website. Several call links buttons or a combination thereof may be loaded on the page at Target Website at step . At step on page load at Target Website and following any subsequent touch gestures User performs or at preset intervals Target Website may send custom information to Tracker through a JAVASCRIPT function. For instance User may see a Language drop down. When User selects Spanish Target Website may pass to Tracker a variable value pair such as language Spanish .

Multiple variable value pairs may be passed in an associative array. Values may be obtained from the array cookies established by Target Website or a URL among other sources. When passing the variables Target Website may instruct Tracker to replace all previously stored custom information add to existing information or overwrite the old variables while keeping the other variables intact. In step Tracker may receive the information and may store or may update its value in a cookie. Variable value pairs may be separated by a predetermined delimiter such as a or character. For instance a cookie value for language Spanish and product cellphone may be stored as language Spanish product cellphone .

When User clicks Call at step a JAVASCRIPT may execute which may collect the latest custom cookie value and send it to Tracker. Tracker may create a new blank record in its database associated with Target Website may populate it with the custom information and may generate a record ID at step . Tracker may then use the record ID to create a new extension record for example in the extensions table dedicated to Target Website. The remaining steps through are similar or identical to the corresponding steps in the method described above with respect to .

Another embodiment as shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to and except in the following ways. In particular the method described with respect to adapts the method described in to a scenario described in where a numeric code is displayed on page load rather than when a link is clicked. This enables tracking of calls that occur when a User sees a phone number on one device e.g. a laptop computer but initiates a call from another device e.g. a cell phone .

As shown in in step User may take an action that takes User to a Target Website. For example User may click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. that directs User to a Target Website. At step a request may be sent to Tracker and a new record in Tracker database associated with the Target Website may be generated. The request may be sent to Tracker once the Target Website has loaded. Tracker may create a new record in Tracker database for example in the extensions table that is dedicated to Target Website.

As shown in step once the code has been determined the system may enter the code into the extensions table and may send it back to User s browser. As shown in step on page load at Target Website and following any subsequent mouse gestures such as clicks hovers or movements that User performs or at preset intervals Target Website may send custom information to Tracker through a JAVASCRIPT function. For instance User may see a Language drop down. When User selects Spanish Target Website may pass to Tracker a variable value pair such as language Spanish .

In step Tracker may receive the information and may send it to its database together with the numeric code associated with User. Tracker may then update the custom information associated with the numeric code value. Alternatively when receiving the information Tracker may store or may update its value in a cookie. At preset intervals a JAVASCRIPT may automatically collect the latest custom cookie value and send it to Tracker together with the numeric code associated with User. Tracker may then update the custom information associated with the numeric code value as well as the time of the update. The remaining steps through are similar or identical to the corresponding steps in the method described above with respect to and or .

In summary the method enables phone calls to be tracked in the same manner as on website events such as file downloads or form submissions. This allows the system to capture valuable data from the analytics system such as visitor source information. Incorporating an ID throughout the method allows Business to drill down into phone calls data attributing each phone call to a specific marketing channel geographic location device etc. The described features are not mutually exclusive each Business can select as few or as many of the options to fit its needs and or preferences.

The above described methods can be implemented in a system that may include one or more non transitory computer readable storage mediums with instructions stored thereon that when executed by a computing system cause the computing system to perform the above described operations.

Each of the methods described herein with reference to the accompanying figures may be implemented as a system including one or more servers providing data related to the website and the database wherein each server comprises at least one computing system having at least one data processor. The above described methods according to the technology introduced here can be implemented as devices and or systems including multiple devices.

For example the methods described herein may be implemented in hardware firmware or as software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM an RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered in such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein.

In the illustrated embodiment the architecture includes one or more processors memory one or more communication device s one or more input output I O devices and one or more mass storage devices all coupled to each other through an interconnect . The interconnect may be or include one or more conductive traces buses point to point connections controllers adapters and or other conventional connection devices. The processor s control the overall operation of the processing device and can be or include for example one or more general purpose programmable microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs mobile application processors microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable gate arrays PGAs or the like or a combination of such devices.

Memory can be or include one or more physical storage devices which may be in the form of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM which may be erasable and programmable flash memory miniature hard disk drive or other suitable type of storage device or a combination of such devices. The mass storage device s can be or include one or more hard drives digital versatile disks DVDs flash memories or the like. Memory and or mass storage can store individually or collectively data and instructions that configure the processor s to execute operations to implement the techniques described above. Each communication device can be or include for example a wired Ethernet adapter cable modem DSL modem cellular telecommunications transceiver e.g. 3G or 4G LTE Wi Fi transceiver baseband processor Bluetooth or BLE transceiver or the like or a combination thereof. Depending on the specific nature and purpose of the processing device the I O devices can include devices such as a display which may be a touch screen display audio speaker keyboard mouse or other pointing device microphone camera etc. Note however that such I O devices may be unnecessary if the processing device is embodied solely as a server computer.

One embodiment of the present invention illustrated in can be summarized in a schematic diagram of an exemplary network environment employing an identifier for collection of call records and or other data records of a user.

In an initial step a computer system receives one of the following a a message that the user has accessed a website associated with a first entity or b a message that the user has initiated a voice call to an agent associated with the first entity.

In a second step the computer system generates the identifier based upon one of a the message that the user has accessed the website associated with the first entity defined as anticipating a voice call to the agent of the first entity or b the message that the user has initiated the voice call to the agent associated with the first entity. The computer system forwards the identifier to at least one of a a telephone b the website associated with the first entity and c an external computer .

The system associates the voice call and all data associated with activities of the user by the identifier by appending the identifier to the associated record as shown.

In a third step the communication provider forwards a call record which includes the identifier to the computer system which stores the information in a database located on a digital storage device . The computer system collects all of the call records each call record includes the associated identifier . The external computer tracks history of the user and records the activities in data records wherein each of the data records includes the identifier .

Once all of the data has been recorded at the various locations the computer system can collect data from the external computer by sending a request to receive all information that includes the identifier . This process enables collection of both call records and activities made by the user that are associated with the first entity for data mining lead generation and other marketing purposes. The collected information is stored on the digital storage device . The call data records CDRs are normally collected and stored in a predefined format. The data records are also collected and stored in a predefined format. The unique identifier is appended to each record of the set of records associated with calls and activities of the same user.

A second embodiment of the present invention illustrated in can be summarized in a schematic diagram detailing interactions between users and providers. The user is representative of a user and a browser enabled computing device such as a computer a portable computing tablet a Smartphone and the like. The general concept of the present invention is to provide a mechanism for identifying a user or visitor to a website presented through a web server and retaining the association between a plurality of entities. The web server includes a network connected server in communication with an associated web server digital data storage device . The web server digital data storage device stores and manages one or more websites and any associated data.

The user requests to view a webpage in accordance with a request from a web server . The web server returns source information to the user via a source transfer communication . A data management company server operated by a data management company establishes a user level identifier and forwards the user level identifier to the user via a communication link . Information would be stored on a data management company digital storage device wherein the data management company digital storage device is in signal communication with the data management company server .

The requested webpage includes at least one form . The form is appended combining the user level identifier with the form by a tracking company . This is accomplished by placing a code snippet on at least one website on the web server at any reasonable point in time. The transfer is accomplished using a source transfer communication block of . The code snippet can be introduced prior to during or after the transfer of the source code of the website . The code snippet can be transferred to the web server the user or any other suitable location to provide the desired solution. In the exemplary embodiment the code snippet is transferred to the user via a snippet communication link .

In one exemplary solution the user level identifier is appended to the form by the code snippet after the form is served to the user . In one variant of the process the process can append a permanent or temporary tracking identifier to the form . If a temporary identifier is used the temporary identifier is exchanged with a permanent identifier when the completed form is transferred to an inquiry management server . The combination including the appended permanent identifier would be stored as the record.

The user completes and submits the form. The completed form including the associated user level identifier are submitted to the inquiry management server operated by an inquiry management provider . The received information is stored on an inquiry management digital storage device wherein the inquiry management digital storage device is in signal communication with the inquiry management server .

In one practice the user is subsequently connected to an agent by any suitable communication link not shown . Examples of communication links can include e mail in person a telephone call transfer to a different website or any other communication link. In one variant the communication between parties is accomplished using an offline communication process. The records would be generated by the agent an automated record generation process or any other suitable process. The agent forwards the collected data activity records of follow up activities to the inquiry management provider referenced as a user agent activities records transfer .

A tracking company server operated by a tracking company would transmit an application programming interface API request to the inquiry management provider in accordance with a request communication . The tracking company subsequently responds by forwarding the data collected from the agent to the tracking company server in accordance with a data request response or data transfer communication . The tracking company collects and stores the received records on a tracking company digital data storage device . The stored records including the associated user level identifier are forwarded to the data management company for future use wherein the conveyance of the stored records is accomplished via a data transfer communication link . If a permanent tracking identifier is used the user level identifier associated with the tracking identifier is first located and then used to forward the stored records to the data management company .

Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the technology introduced here. For example the term business is not limited to a business but can include any entity having an online or Internet presence in the form of a website. It is to be understood that unless otherwise indicated herein the order in which the steps of the figures are described is not intended to require that such steps be performed in the order in which they are described. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications that are within the spirit and scope of the invention. Furthermore material appearing in the background section of the specification is not an admission that such material is prior art to the invention.

