---

title: Wearable personal digital device for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use
abstract: Provided are a wearable personal digital device and related methods. The wearable personal digital device may comprise a processor, a display, biometric sensors, activity tracking sensors, a memory unit, a communication circuit, a housing, an input unit, a projector, a timepiece unit, a haptic touch control actuator, and a band. The processor may be operable to receive data from an external device, provide a notification to a user based on the data, receive a user input, and perform a command selected based on the user input. The communication circuit may be communicatively coupled to the processor and operable to connect to a wireless network and communicate with the external device. The housing may be adapted to enclose the components of the wearable personal digital device. The band may be adapted to attach to the housing and secure the wearable personal digital device on a user body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100493&OS=09100493&RS=09100493
owner: 
number: 09100493
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150424
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 760 214 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL DEVICE FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS AND PERSONAL USE filed on Feb. 6 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 272 939 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL DEVICE WITH CHANGEABLE BENDABLE BATTERY AND EXPANDABLE DISPLAY USED AS STANDALONE ELECTRONIC PAYMENT CARD filed on May 8 2014 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 776 852 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL FLEXIBLE CLOUD GAME MULTIMEDIA COMMUNICATION AND COMPUTING DEVICE filed on Feb. 26 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 875 311 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING MOBILE PAYMENT ACCOUNT MOBILE BARCODE AND UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE CURRENCY filed on May 2 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 620 775 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING CODES AND CASHBACK BUSINESS MODEL filed on Sep. 15 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 973 146 entitled WEARABLE AUGMENTED REALITY EYEGLASS COMMUNICATION DEVICE INCLUDING MOBILE PHONE AND MOBILE COMPUTING VIA VIRTUAL TOUCH SCREEN GESTURE CONTROL AND NEURON COMMAND filed on Aug. 22 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 646 706 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PREVENTING CARD PAYMENT FRAUD AND RECEIVING PAYMENTS USING CODES AND MOBILE DEVICES filed on Oct. 7 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 458 791 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS filed on Aug. 13 2014 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 537 867 filed Nov. 10 2014 titled INTERNET BASED PLATFORM AND MOBILE WEB BASED PLATFORM COMBINING ONLINE AND OFFLINE GAMING ADVERTISING MOBILE AND WEARABLE DIGITAL CURRENCY TOKENS AND COMMERCE PROVIDING FREE GAMES FREE PRODUCTS AND FREE SERVICES FREE OF INTERCHANGE FEES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 198 683 filed Mar. 6 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE USING HAPTIC CONTROL CLOUD VOICE CHANGER AND PROTECTING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA PRIVACY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 799 023 filed Mar. 13 2013 titled METHODS AND SYSTEMS TO ADVERTISE AND SELL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES VIA A TABLE TABLET COMPUTER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 509 027 filed Oct. 7 2014 titled GLOBAL WORLD UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE AND WEARABLE CURRENCY IMAGE TOKEN AND LEDGER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 334 992 filed Jul. 18 2014 titled MOBILE AND WEARABLE DEVICE PAYMENTS VIA FREE CROSS PLATFORM MESSAGING SERVICE FREE VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL COMMUNICATION FREE OVER THE TOP CONTENT COMMUNICATION AND UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE AND WEARABLE DEVICE CURRENCY FACES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 185 491 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING filed on Jul. 18 2011 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates generally to personal mobile devices and more specifically to wearable personal digital devices for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use.

Mobile devices gain growing importance in daily activities of their users with more and more functions being performed by mobile devices. Some of such functions may include mobile communication mobile payments health monitoring and so forth. In addition to that carrying a mobile phone a tablet personal computer or a laptop may not always be comfortable for example during physical activity or leisure time. For such purposes wearable mobile devices e.g. wristwatch digital devices may be used. However use of the wearable mobile devices may be inconvenient because of limited software functionality of such devices.

Furthermore a wristwatch digital device may be communicatively coupled to a smartphone and display notifications related to smartphone activity e.g. an incoming call or a message. However a user may be unable to respond to the notification directly using the wristwatch digital device.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided are a wearable personal digital device for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use and a method for facilitating user interaction with a wearable personal digital device for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use. The wearable personal digital device for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use may comprise a processor a display one or more biometric sensors one or more activity tracking sensors a memory unit a communication circuit a housing an input unit and a band. The processor may be operable to receive data from an external device provide a notification to a user based on the data receive a user input and perform a command selected based on the user input. The user input may be received through the display e.g. a touchscreen or the input unit communicatively coupled to the processor. The input unit may extend from the housing and be configured to perform one or more of a rotational motion and a linear motion. The biometric sensors may be operable to sense one or more biometric parameters of the user which can be provided via the display stored to the memory unit transmitted to the external device and so forth. The one or more activity tracking sensors may be communicatively coupled to the processor. The communication circuit may be communicatively coupled to the processor and operable to connect to a wireless network and communicate with the external device. The housing may be adapted to enclose at least the processor the display the one or more biometric sensors the one or more activity tracking sensors the memory unit and the communication circuit. The band may be adapted to attach to the housing and to secure the device on a user body.

In some embodiments the wearable personal digital device for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use may further include a camera communicatively coupled to the processor. The camera may be operable to capture a code the codes including one or more of the following a linear dimensional code a two dimensional code a snap tag code and a Quick Response code. The code may be read by the processor to obtain one or more of a product information and a merchant information encoded in the code and initiate a payment transaction based on the merchant information.

Furthermore the display may be operable to be activated based on one or more of the following a movement of a user hand a movement of the user body a gesture performed by the user in proximity to the display and a user voice. Additionally the display may display data associated with the activity of the user such as calories burned sleep quality breaths per minute snoring breaks steps walked distance walked and so forth.

In further exemplary embodiments modules subsystems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features and exemplary embodiments are described below.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the presented concepts. The presented concepts may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail so as to not unnecessarily obscure the described concepts. While some concepts will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to be limiting.

A wearable personal digital WPD device for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use and related methods are described herein. The WPD device may include a housing enclosing all components of the WPD device and a band attached to the housing. Furthermore the WPD device may perform a function of a health and activity monitor. More specifically the WPD device may sense biometric data associated with the user blood pressure heart rate temperature and so forth using biometric sensors and or receive data on user movements using accelerometers or a Global Positioning System GPS unit. Biometric data and user movement data may be shown on a display of the WPD device stored in a memory unit of the WPD device and or processed by a processor of the WPD device to produce historical or averaged data.

The WPD device may be communicatively coupled with an external device such as a smartphone. The WPD device and the smartphone may communicate using a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network or a Bluetooth network. The WPD device may display notifications from the smartphone. The notifications may represent receipt of any type of data by the smartphone for example a phone call a message an upcoming calendar event a social network event and the like. A user may respond to the notification directly via the WPD device or using the smartphone. The biometric data and user movement data collected by the WPD device may be sent to the smartphone for further processing.

The display of the WPD device may be represented by a touchscreen. The user may provide commands to the WPD device by varying the time of user interaction with the touchscreen. More specifically the user may vary the time of pressing the touchscreen. Different time of pressing the touchscreen may correspond to different commands. For example pressing the touchscreen for 1 second may correspond to a message mode. Therefore after the user touches the touchscreen for 1 sec and releases a user finger from the touchscreen the message mode may be activated. Similarly pressing the touchscreen for 5 seconds may correspond to a payment mode. The payment mode may be performed by using scanning of codes. Additionally payment cards may be read using a swipe card reader optionally included into the WPD device.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which the WPD device and methods for facilitating user interaction with the WPD device can be implemented. The environment may include a network a WPD device a mobile base station a GSM satellite and one or more external devices . The WPD device may be worn by a user . The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a Personal Area Network a Local Area Network a Wide Area Network a Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network a storage area network a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network connection a synchronous optical network connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service connection Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an Fiber Distributed Data Interface or Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including Wireless Application Protocol General Packet Radio Service Global System for Mobile Communication Code Division Multiple Access or Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks Global Positioning System cellular digital packet data Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network may be a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication. The WPD device may communicate with the GPS satellite via the network to exchange data on a geographical location of the WPD device . Additionally the WPD device may communicate with mobile network operators using the mobile base station .

For the purposes of communication the WPD device may be compatible with one or more of the following network standards GSM CDMA LTE IMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS 4G 5G 6G and upper RFID and so forth.

As shown on the front view and the back view of the WPD device may comprise a housing which encloses a processor not shown a display a memory unit not shown communicatively coupled to the processor a communication circuit not shown biometric sensors not shown operable to sense one or more biometric parameters of the user activity tracking sensors not shown an input unit a projector not shown a timepiece unit not shown a haptic touch control actuator not shown a near field communication NFC unit not shown communicatively coupled to the processor and a band .

The processor may be operable to receive data from an external device not shown . Based on the data the processor may be operable to provide a notification to a user. In an example embodiment the notification may be provided via one or more of the following a vibration a sound a light indication and so forth. The light indication may be generated using a light indicator . The processor may be further operable to receive a user input provided by the user in response to reviewing the notification. Furthermore the processor may be operable to perform a command selected based on the user input. The processor may be further operable to provide a natural language user interface to communicate with the user. The natural language user interface may be operable to sense a user voice and provide a response in a natural language to the user. The WPD device may further include an operating system being executed on the processor. The operating system may include Android iOS Firefox OS and so forth.

The display may be communicatively coupled to the processor. In an example embodiment the display includes a touchscreen. The display may be used to receive the user input. More specifically the user may provide the user input by pressing the display performing movements on the display e.g. moving a finger from left to right from up to down and the like . In an example embodiment the display includes a force sensor. The force sensor may be operable to sense a touch force applied by the user to the display and calculate coordinates of a touch by the user. The force sensor may be further operable to analyze the touch force and based on the touch force select a tap command or a press command based on a predetermined criteria. The predetermined criteria may include a value of the touch force. In an example embodiment the display may be operable to be activated based on one or more of the following a movement of a user hand a movement of the user body a gesture performed by the user in proximity to the display a user voice and so forth.

In a further example embodiment the processor may be operable to detect absence of interaction of the user with the display. The detection may be made based on an eye tracking of the user a head tracking of the user and a spatial position of the housing. Based on the detecting the processor may be operable to dim the display . Additionally the processor may be operable to activate the display based on a spatial position of the housing or a gesture of the user body such as a user hand.

In a further example embodiment the processor may be operable to receive using the natural language user interface a map request from the user. In response to the map request the processor may display via the display a map and a route depicted on the map. Additionally the processor may be operable to provide an indication associated with the route to the user. The indication may be provided using the haptic feedback. The indication may include for example providing haptic feedback such as a vibration one time for a direction to the left two times for the direction to the right or any other type of feedback.

In a further example embodiment the processor may be operable to analyze a message received by the external device. The analyzing may including one or more of the following parsing a text reading an image recognizing a voice and the like. Based on the analysis one or more possible replies may be displayed to the user using the display . Furthermore a selection of a reply from the one or more possible replies may be received from the user. Based on the selection the processor may be operable to send the reply to the external device.

In an example embodiment the processor may be operable to analyze the user activity. Based on the analyzing one or more diagrams may be displayed to the user. The one or mode diagrams may represent one or more activity types of the user.

The projector may be communicatively coupled to the processor. The projector may be operable to project a data onto a viewing surface. The data may include one or more of the following a virtual keyboard the notification of the external device time data requested by the user a caller name a text message a reminder a social media alert an email a weather alert and the like. The viewing surface may include a user arm a user hand and any surface in proximity to the WPD device . In an example embodiment the projector may project data to the left side or to the right side with respect to the wrist of the user.

The timepiece unit may be communicatively coupled to the processor and configured to provide time data.

The communication circuit may be communicatively coupled to the processor and configured to connect to a wireless network and communicate with the external device. In an example embodiment the communication circuit may include one or more of the following a wireless transceiver a Bluetooth module a Wi Fi module a communication port and the like. The communication port may include one or more of the following a USB port a parallel port an infrared transceiver port a radiofrequency transceiver port and so forth.

The input unit may be communicatively coupled to the processor. In an example embodiment the input unit may extend from the housing and may be configured to perform a rotational motion and a linear motion. Therefore the input unit may be rotated around a longitudinal axis of the input unit may be pushed into the housing or may be extended from the housing . Thus the input unit may be operable to receive the user input.

The band may be adapted to attach to the housing and to secure the WPD device on a user body or clothes of the user. In various embodiments the WPD device may be secured on a wrist an arm a neck a head a leg a waist an ear a finger or any other part of the human body or on any part of the clothes of the user. The band may be adapted to secure the WPD device under within or on the clothes of the user. The band may be an expansion bracelet one piece band two piece band and so forth. In some embodiments the band may include a clasp adapted to fix the band in a specific position to secure the WPD device around the wrist.

In an example embodiment the WPD device may further include a camera . The camera may be configured to capture a code such as a linear dimensional code a two dimensional code a snap tag code and a Quick Response QR code. Upon capturing the code by the camera the processor may be operable to read the captured code to obtain a product information or a merchant information encoded in the code. More specifically the user may capture barcodes of products provided in a store. Upon reading the barcode product information may be provided to the user on the display . In an example embodiment the product information may be displayed on the external device such as a smartphone. Additionally the merchant information may be retrieved from the barcode. The merchant information may include merchant payment information. Upon obtaining product information and merchant information the processor may initiate a payment transaction based on the merchant information. During the payment transaction an amount of money corresponding to a price of the product may be transferred from a user payment account to a merchant payment account. The price of the product may be included into the product information. The payment transaction may be performed by sending payment data by a NFC unit of the WPD device to a merchant using a NFC.

In an example embodiment the NFC may be used for payments for purchases made online and offline. A user of the WPD device equipped with the NFC unit may perform transactions without authentication or some authentication may be needed such as a Personal Identification Number PIN before transaction is completed. The payment can be deducted from a pre paid account of the user or charged directly to a bank account of the user. In example embodiment the NFC unit may enable the WPD device to establish radio communication with external devices by touching the WPD device and the external device together or bringing them into proximity.

In an example embodiment the camera may be further operable to track a face fingers and gestures of the user. In turn the processor may be operable to analyze the face the fingers and the gestures tracked by the camera. Additionally the processor may recognize speech and subtract a background noise from the speech.

The camera may be further operable to perform an optical character recognition of a data. The data may include one or more of the following a typewritten text a printed text an image and the like. The data may be scanned from a document such as a passport an invoice a bank statement a computerized receipt a business card a mail a printout of static data a book a print publication and so forth.

In a further example embodiment the WPD device may be adapted to display a unique code to be scanned by a Point of Sale POS system. shows a schematic representation of scanning a barcode displayed on the WPD device by a barcode scanner of the POS system . The barcode may encode a user payment information such as a bank account a payment card number and so forth. The barcode may be generated by a payment system not shown associated with the WPD device or the external device. Therefore the user may use the barcode instead of a debit card or a credit card.

Referring back to the front view of the WPD device shows an example embodiment according to which the WPD device includes a swipe card reader communicatively coupled to the processor. The swipe card reader may be located on either side of the WPD device vertically or horizontally. The swipe card reader may be operable to read data of a payment card. Upon reading the data may be transmitted to the processor of the WPD device or to the external device. The swipe card reader may be used for example during performing payments on line. Furthermore the swipe card reader may be used for providing user payment information which may be further encoded into a barcode . The barcode may be displayed on the display e.g. in a store for performing the payment transaction.

The biometric parameters sensed by the biometric sensors may be stored to the memory unit of the WPD device . According to another embodiment the biometric parameters sensed by the biometric sensors may be transmitted to the external device for further processing or displaying on the external device. The processor may be operable to provide data associated with biometric parameters to be displayed on the display . The biometric parameters may include one or more of the following a blood pressure a heart rate a glucose level a body temperature an environment temperature arterial properties of the user and the like. The biometric sensors may be disposed within the band. Based on detection that the one or more of the biometric parameters of the user exceed predetermined limits the biometric sensors may be configured to produce the alarm. In an example embodiment the biometric sensors include lenses operable to use infrared light emitting diodes LED and visible light LEDs to sense a heart rate of the user. In a further example embodiment the biometric sensors may be operable to non invasively monitor a glucose level. The glucose level may be monitored using a saliva testing.

The biometric sensors may further include a skin contact sensor data engine. The skin contact sensor data engine may be operable to monitor a user electrocardiogram or the heart rate. The user electrocardiogram and the heart rate may serve as identification and personal data of the user. The skin contact sensor data engine may be further operable to prompt the user to enter a PIN after placing the WPD device on the wrist. The skin contact sensor data engine may associated the PIN with the user electrocardiogram and the heart rate. Therefore in case of placing the WPD device on a wrist of another user another user may be not authorized to user the WPD device because a user electrocardiogram and a heart rate of another user may differ from those of the user of the WPD device .

The haptic touch control actuator may be operable to produce a haptic feedback in response to one or more events. The one or more events may include receiving of the alert receiving of a notification a confirmation movement of the WPD device receiving of the user input sensing of the one or more biometric parameters and so forth. The haptic feedback may be sensed by the user body such as a wrist of the user. The haptic feedback may have a plurality of feedback types. More specifically each of the one or more events may be associated with one of the plurality of feedback types.

In a further example embodiment the display may be further operable to display data associated with the activity of the user. The activity of the user may include calories burned sleep quality breaths per minute snoring breaks steps walked distance walked and the like. The activity of the user may be tracked by the activity tracking sensors of the WPD device . The activity tracking sensors may be operable to monitor user movements in a three dimensional trajectory identify type of user activity identify a specific motion fingerprint of an exercise evaluate user physical form count repetitions calculate calories burned and so forth. In certain example embodiments the activity tracking sensors may sense and track position of the user to identify the snoring of the user and provide a notification to the user e.g. using the vibration to force the user to change the position. In an example embodiment the activity tracking sensors are operable to track snoring of the user and based on tracking of the snoring produce an alarm to the user to break snoring.

In an example embodiment the WPD device may further include a microphone not shown . The microphone may be operable to sense voice data. The voice data may be obtained from the user. For example the user may provide a user request using user voice. The voice data may include a voice command a voice memo a voice message and the like. The voice data may be transmitted to the processor for further processing. In particular the processor may be operable to recognize the voice data in order to obtain the user request. The user request may be transmitted to the external device.

In an example embodiment the input unit may include a clock crown located on any of lateral sides of the housing an upper side of the housing or a bottom side of the housing. The processor may be operable to sense the rotational motion of the input unit . For example the user may rotate the input unit . Based on the sensing the data displayed on the display may be scrolled. Each action performed by the user on the input unit such as direction of rotation e.g. clockwise or counter clockwise speed of rotation pressing the input unit towards the housing or extending the input unit outwards the housing may correspond to a specific command.

In a further example embodiment the processor of the WPD device may be operable to control an operation of a camera of the external device. Furthermore the processor may access audio files stored on the external device and wirelessly connect with earphones. Upon accessing the external device and connecting with the earphones the processor may reproduce the audio files using the earphones. Therefore the user of the WPD device may listen to the music stored on the external device and control reproducing of the audio files using the WPD device .

In an example embodiment the processor may be further operable to generate a code encoding user payment data and user personal data. The generation may be performed based on the user payment data and the user personal data stored in the memory unit of the WPD device . The processor may be further operable to prompt the user to touch the display to scan user fingerprints. Additionally the processor may be further operable to determine a heart rate of the user using the biometric sensors. The processor may be further operable to compare the user fingerprints and the heart rate of the user with reference fingerprints and a reference heart rate. The reference fingerprints and the reference heart rate may be stored in the memory unit. The processor may detect a match of the user fingerprints with the reference fingerprints and of the heart rate of the user with the reference heart rate. Base of the detecting the processor may provide the code to a merchant digital device for performing a payment transaction. Upon the payment transaction a payment confirmation may be provided to the user. The payment confirmation may be provided using the haptic feedback.

In an example embodiment the processor may be further operable to detect current user location e.g. using a GPS unit. The processor may be operable to detect presence of premises associated with the user in proximity to the current user location. The premises may include a home an office a garage a car and the like. Based on the detecting the processor may be operable to initiate unlocking of the premises.

In a further example embodiment the processor of the WPD device may be operable to detect presence of another WPD device in proximity to the WPD device . Based on the detecting the processor may be operable to initiate data transmission between the WPD device and another WPD device.

In an example embodiment the processor may be further operable to receive from the user a content access request for at least one content item of content data stored in the memory unit of the WPD device . The processor may read access rules stored in the memory unit. The access rules may be associated with use of the at least one content item. Based on the access rules the processor may be operable to determine that an access to the at least one content item is permitted. Based on the determining the at least one content item may be reproduced to the user.

The content data may include audio data video data text software game data. The WPD device may act as a data carrier and include an interface for sending and receiving data. The memory unit may be operable to store received content data provide payment validation data to the external device store a record of access made to the stored content data and the access rules for controlling access to the stored content data. The processor may be further operable to access control data and supplementary data including hot links to websites and advertising data. Payment data the stored content data and access rules data may be used to reduce a risk of an unauthorized access to the content data.

The WPD device may further include a battery not shown disposed in the housing. Additionally the WPD device may include a magnetic inductive charging unit not shown . The magnetic inductive charging unit may be operable to magnetically connect to the housing and wirelessly connect to the battery. The magnetic inductive charging unit may be operable to wirelessly transfer energy to the battery. In some example embodiments the magnetic inductive charging unit may be integrated into the housing. Once connected magnetically to the back of the WPD device the connection of magnetic inductive charging unit may be seamless and need no additional alignment by the user.

The WPD device may further include a light indicator operable to show a light indication in response to receiving data from an external device. Upon a predetermined movement of the user body such as raising a hand the light indication may stop showing the light indication and initiate the display to display the data received from an external device.

In example embodiments the housing may have round square rectangular and other shape. Therefore when the WPD device is paired with the external device a plurality of applications running on the external device may be visualized on the display of the WPD device using a form factor specific to the form and size of the housing.

In another example embodiment as shown on the diagram the user may press the display for 5 seconds. The time of 5 seconds may correspond to a payment mode. Therefore based on the time of 5 second the processor may select a command from the table such as initiation of the payment mode. The timer may show the time the user presses the display namely 5 seconds. Additionally an icon representing the payment mode may be displayed.

Referring back to the WPD device may further include a vibration unit not shown in communication with the processor. The vibration unit may be activated in response to receiving the data from the external device to notify the user about receipt of the data. For example upon receipt of the message by the remote device the vibration unit of the WPD device may be activated.

In an example embodiment the band of the WPD device may be detachable. The detached view shows the band detached from the housing of the WPD device .

The WPD device may further include a GPS unit not shown configured to track geographical location of the device. Such information may be applied for spatial and positional awareness tracking monitoring position of a child a senior or a patient. In some embodiments the WPD device may connect to one or more external devices for example other WPD devices synchronize with the one or more external devices in real time tracks a geographical location of the one or more external devices in real time and provide communication capabilities using an embedded emergency button configured to give a medical alert signal a request for help signal or another informational signal. Thus users may track geographical location of each other.

In some embodiments access to the WPD device may be protected by a password a Personal Identification Number code biometric authorization and so forth. Biometric authorization may be performed using one or more biometric sensors and may include fingerprint scanning palm scanning face scanning retina scanning heart rate sensing and so forth. In some embodiments fingerprint scanning may be performed using a fingerprint reader integrated in the WPD device or detachably connected to the WPD device. The scanned fingerprint may be matched to one or more approved fingerprints stored in the memory unit of the WPD device . The access to the device may be granted if the scanned fingerprint matches one of the stored fingerprints otherwise access may be denied.

The payment transaction may be associated with a NFC and be performed for purchases online and offline. A payment associated with the payment transaction may be transferred from a pre paid account of the user or charged to a mobile account of the user or a bank account of the user. The payment may include at least a one touch and one scan payment for street parking in demarcated areas. The payment may be performed using a license plate transponder tags barcode stickers and reading the code from the display. A merchant may use a combination of the NFC and the code on the display for performing the one touch and one scan payment. The NFC may be used to establish radio communication with the external device by touching the housing of the WPD device and the external device or bringing the housing of the WPD device and the external device into proximity such a distance of up to 10 centimeters. The processor may be operable to operate in three modes such as an NFC target mode when the WPD device is acting as a credential a NFC initiator mode when the WPD device is acting as a reader and an NFC peer to peer mode. The payment may be further associated with advertisement tags two dimensional barcodes and ultra high frequency tags. The processor may be operable to be connected to a cloud. User credentials may be provisioned over the air. The payment may be associated with a payment application associated with the processor to control transferring of the payment and access payment readers. The NFC unit may be operable to connect to a third party NFC device with a server for data.

The processor may be associated with an operating system operable to pair with third party applications running on the external device. The processor may integrate a third party developer technology and the third party applications and notifications into a form factor. The processor may be operable to download applications. The WPD device may act as or be associated with smart textiles an activity tracker a smartwatch smartglasses a GPS watch mixed reality computer mediated reality clothing technology Smart closing healthcare augmenter reality and smart and connected devices.

The WPD device may be adapted to enable a Bluetooth low energy payment. The WPD device may be further associated with one or more of a transactional payment based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data Short Message Service direct operator billing a credit card mobile payment an online wallet a QR code payment contactless NFC a cloud based mobile payment an audio signal based payment a Bluetooth Low Energy signal beacon payment an in application payment a Software Development Kit payment an Application Programming Interface payment a social networking payment and a direct carrier and bank co operation.

At operation the natural language user interface may be provided to communicate with the user. The natural language user interface may be operable to sense a user voice and provide a response in a natural language to the user. The WPD device may be secured on a user body at operation using a band attached to a housing of the WPD device.

In an example embodiment the method may further include capturing by a camera communicatively coupled to the processor a code. The code may include a linear dimensional code a two dimensional code a snap tag code or a QR code. The method may further include reading the code to obtain a product information and a merchant information encoded in the code. Based on the merchant information a payment transaction may be initiated.

Additionally the method may include activating the display based on one or more of the following a movement of a user hand a movement of the user body a gesture performed by the user in proximity to the display user voice and the like. In an example embodiment the method further includes storing the biometric parameters sensed by the one or more biometric sensors to the memory unit of the WPD device. Alternatively the biometric parameters sensed by the one or more biometric sensors may be transmitted to the external device.

Additionally the method may include sensing by a microphone voice data. The voice data may be obtained from the user and may include a voice command a voice memo or a voice message. The voice data may be transmitted to the processor of the WPD device for further processing. Additionally the voice data may be recognized to obtain a user request. The user request may be transmitted to the external device.

In an example embodiment the method may further include estimating time of the user input. The user input may include pressing the display by the user. Based on the time a command may be selected from a table representing relationship between the time of pressing and a plurality of commands. The selected command may be further performed by the processor.

Additionally the method may include displaying by the display data associated with the activity of the user. The activity of the user may include calories burned sleep quality breaths per minute snoring breaks steps walked and distance walked. The method may further include providing data associated with the one or more biometric parameters to be displayed on the display. The one or more biometric parameters may include one or more of the following a blood pressure a heart rate a glucose level a body temperature an environment temperature and arterial properties.

In an example embodiment the method may further include sensing a rotational motion of the input unit. The input unit may be rotated by the user. Based on the sensing the data displayed on the display may be scrolled. Additionally the method may include activating a vibration unit in response to receiving the data from the external device to notify the user about receipt of the data.

The WPD device may include a housing that may enclose the elements of the WPD device as described above with reference to . The WPD device may include a projector . The projector may project a data onto a viewing surface to form a display area . The display area may serve as a further display of the WPD device . The data shown on the display area may include a message .

As shown on the projector may be disposed on any side of the housing . More specifically the display area may be provided to the right from the wrist of the user as in the WPD device or the display area may be provided to the left from the wrist of the user as in the WPD device .

Thus various WPD devices for facilitating mobile device payments and personal use and methods for facilitating user interaction with the WPD devices have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

