---

title: Technologies for secure storage and use of biometric authentication information
abstract: Generally, this disclosure describes technologies for securely storing and using biometric authentication information, such as biometric reference templates. In some embodiments, the technologies include a client device that stores one or more biometric reference templates in a memory thereof. The client device may transfer such templates to an authentication device. The transfer may be conditioned on verification that the authentication device includes a suitable protected environment for the templates and will execute an acceptable temporary storage policy. The technologies may also include an authentication device that is configured to temporarily store biometric reference templates received from a client device in a protected environment thereof. Upon completion of biometric authentication or the occurrence of a termination event, the authentication devices may delete the biometric reference templates from the protected environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628478&OS=09628478&RS=09628478
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09628478
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150729
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 995 247 which was the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2013 031881 filed Mar. 15 2013 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to biometric authentication and more particularly to technologies for securely storing and using biometric authentication information.

For the purpose of security and other reasons electronic devices systems and services may be protected by one or more authentication protocols such as a password authentication protocol. In an example password authentication protocol an individual may supply a username and password to a service provider e.g. his or her email provider . The service provider may store this information in association with the individual s account. When the individual wishes to access the account he she may log in to the service by providing his her user name and password through a relevant portal such as a website or other application.

Although password authentication protocols are useful they are becoming increasingly cumbersome as the number of user accounts and the need to use secure e.g. complex and or hard to remember passwords increases. Such protocols also frequently require the storage of a username and password combination on a third party system such as an authentication server. Because authentication servers often store copious amounts of user account information they may be considered a prime target for attack by malicious software and or a hacker. If either or both of those entities successfully attack and gain access to the authentication server the usernames and passwords stored in the server may be compromised.

Biometric authentication protocols have been considered as an alternative to password authentication protocols for user identity verification. Although useful existing biometric authentication protocols may require users to provide reference templates including samples of their biometric information to a remote authentication agent such as an authentication server operated by an enterprise or third party authentication service. This may raise the same concerns as some password authentication protocols in that a user s biometric reference templates may be compromised by a hacker or malicious software targeting the authentication server.

In addition when a user provides a biometric reference template to a service provider he she may lose some or all control over that template and the information contained therein. Indeed once reference biometric information is provided to a service provider it may be difficult to for a user to revoke or otherwise delete that information from the service provider s systems. This may give rise to privacy and or other concerns particularly as the biometric information in a reference template may be considered personal private information of the user.

Local biometric authentication protocols have also been considered an option to password authentication protocols. In an example local biometric authentication protocol authentication is performed by a local client device based on biometric reference templates stored in its memory rather than on a centralized authentication server operated by a service provider. In such instances the local device may attempt to verify user identity by comparing biometric test information obtained from the user with sensors available to the local device and comparing the biometric test information against the biometric reference templates stored in the memory of the local device.

While local biometric authentication protocols are useful such systems may still require substantially permanent storage of biometric reference templates in the client device. As a result such systems may suffer from the same privacy concerns as a biometric authentication protocol that leverages a remote authentication server. These privacy concerns may be elevated in instances where the device performing the authentication may be easily lost and or shared amongst multiple users such as may be the case with mobile or other electronic devices that may be rented. Moreover a client side biometric authentication protocol may not be capable of identifying a user unless the user has previously provided a biometric reference template to the client device performing the protocol.

Although the following detailed description will proceed with reference being made to illustrative embodiments many alternatives modifications and variations thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The present disclosure relates to biometric authentication technology including devices systems and methods for biometric authentication. In general the biometric authentication technology described herein leverages the use of biometric information that is stored in one or more templates on a client device. The client device may be a mobile or other electronic device that may remain under the control of a user that is the subject of the authentication or a trusted third party.

As will be described in detail below the client devices described herein may conditionally transfer one or more biometric reference templates to an authentication device for use in a biometric authentication operation. The transfer may be conditioned on successful verification by the client device that the authentication device will maintain the biometric reference templates in a protected environment as defined below and that the authentication device will delete the biometric reference templates upon the occurrence of a termination event such as the expiration of a period of time or the termination of an authenticated user session. In this way the biometric authentication technology described herein may maintain or enhance a user s control over his her biometric reference information by ensuring that biometric reference templates containing that information are only temporarily stored on authentication devices over which the user may have limited or no control e.g. third party authentication devices systems . This may alleviate or lower privacy concerns associated with traditional biometric authentication systems which may require substantially permanent storage of biometric reference templates on authentication devices systems over which a user has limited or no control.

As used herein the term authentication device refers to any of the wide variety of mobile and other electronic devices that may perform biometric authentication operations consistent with the present disclosure. Non limiting examples of suitable authentication devices include biometric authentication terminals cameras cell phones computer terminals desktop computers electronic readers facsimile machines kiosks netbook computers notebook computers internet devices payment terminals personal digital assistants media players and or recorders servers set top boxes smart phones tablet personal computers ultra mobile personal computers wired telephones combinations thereof and the like. Such devices may be portable or stationary. Without limitation the authentication devices described herein are preferably in the form of one or more biometric authentication terminals cell phones desktop computers laptop computers kiosks servers smart phones tablet personal computers and ultra mobile personal computers.

The term biometric information is used herein to refer to observable physiological or behavioral traits of human beings or other animals that may be used to identify the presence of a human being or other animal and or the identity of a specific human being or other animal . Non limiting examples of biometric information that may be used in accordance with the present disclosure include information regarding the biosignals brain waves cardiac signals etc. ear shape eyes e.g. iris retina deoxyribonucleic acid DNA face finger thumb prints gait hand geometry handwriting keystroke i.e. typing patterns or characteristics odor skin texture thermography vascular patterns e.g. finger palm and or eye vein patterns and voice of a human or other animal combinations thereof and the like. Such information may be detectable using one or more sensors such as an optical or infrared camera iris scanner facial recognition system voice recognition system finger thumbprint device eye scanner biosignal scanner e.g. electrocardiogram electroencephalogram etc. DNA analyzer gait analyzer combinations thereof and the like. One or more of such sensors may be included in or coupled to the client devices and or authentication devices described herein

The term biometric reference template is used herein to refer to a data structure containing biometric reference information of a user particularly a user that is the target of a biometric authentication protocol.

The term biometric reference information is used herein to refer to biometric information of a user that is contained in a biometric reference template. In contrast the term biometric test information is used herein to refer to biometric information that is obtained by an authentication device using one or more sensors pursuant to the performance of a biometric authentication protocol. As will be described below the authentication devices described herein may perform a biometric authentication protocol that involves comparing biometric test information against biometric reference information contained in one or more biometric reference templates.

The terms client and client device are interchangeably used herein to refer to any of the wide variety of devices that may be used to securely store biometric reference templates and transfer biometric reference templates to an authentication device for use in a biometric authentication operation. Any suitable mobile or other electronic device may be used as a client device including those mentioned above as being suitable for use as an authentication device. Alternatively or additionally the client devices described herein may be in the form of a smart card an integrated circuit card a universal serial bus key a near field communication NFC device combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation the authentication devices described herein are preferably in the form of a cellular phone electronic reader laptop computer NFC enabled device notebook computer smart badge smart card smart phone tablet personal computer combinations thereof and the like.

As will be described later the client and authentication devices described herein may communicate with one another so as to enable the temporary transfer of biometric reference templates from a client device to an authentication device. Communication between such devices may be performed using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof.

The phrases close range communication and close range communications network are used herein to refer to technologies for sending receiving data signals over a wired or wireless interface between devices that are relatively close to one another. Close range communication includes for example communication between devices using a BLUETOOTH network a personal area network PAN near field communication NFC a ZigBee network a wired Ethernet connection a wired or wireless universal serial bus USB connection radio frequency identification RFID combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation the client and authentication devices described herein are preferably configured to communicate using near field communication.

In contrast the phrases long range communication and long range communications network are used herein to refer to technologies for sending receiving data signals between devices that are a significant distance away from one another. Long range communication includes for example communication between devices using a Wi Fi network a wide area network WAN including but not limited to a cell phone network 3G 4G etc. and the like the internet telephony networks combinations thereof and the like.

The client and or authentication devices of the present disclosure may store one or more modules in a memory thereof. As used in any embodiment herein the term module may refer to software firmware and or circuitry that is are configured to perform or cause the performance of one or more operations consistent with the present disclosure. Software may be embodied as a software package code instructions instruction sets and or data recorded on non transitory computer readable storage mediums. Firmware may be embodied as code instructions or instruction sets and or data that are hard coded e.g. nonvolatile in memory devices. Circuitry as used in any embodiment herein may comprise for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry such as computer processors comprising one or more individual instruction processing cores state machine circuitry software and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. The modules may collectively or individually be embodied as circuitry that forms a part of a client device or an authentication device.

The authentication devices described herein may include a protected environment for the storage of biometric reference templates. The term protected environment is used herein to refer to an execution environment within an authentication device wherein the execution environment includes memory and processing resources that are isolated or otherwise protected from other components of the authentication device via hardware firmware software or a combination thereof.

Memory enclave technology is one example of a protected environment that may be used in an authentication device consistent with the present disclosure. Generally a memory enclave may be made up of at least one memory page that has a different access policy than the access policy imposed by traditional ring boundaries of a computing system in this case an authentication device . The memory page s within a memory enclave may have associated read write controls which may be configured such that the read write controls have exclusivity over certain operating modes or privilege rings such as system management mode or virtual machine monitors of an associated processor. Information stored and operations conducted within a memory enclave of an authentication device may therefore be isolated from other information operations and components of the authentication device. In some embodiments of the present disclosure an authentication device includes one or more memory enclaves that are configured to temporarily store encrypted or unencrypted biometric reference templates provided by a client device for use in a biometric authentication process. One example of suitable memory enclave technology is Intel Secure Enclave technology.

Another example of a protected environment that may be used in the authentication devices of the present disclosure is a trusted execution environment TEE . Generally a TEE is a secure environment that may run alongside an operating system and which can provide secure services to that operating system. More information regarding TEEs and the implementation thereof may be found in the TEE client application programming interface API specification v1.0 the TEE internal API application programming interface specification v1.0 and the TEE system architecture v1.0 issued by GlobalPlatform. In some embodiments the authentication devices described herein include a TEE that was provided using one or more of virtualization technology uCode enhanced memory page protection CPU cache as memory page protection security co processor technology and combinations thereof. Non limiting examples of such technology include INTEL VT x virtualization technology INTEL VT d virtualization technology INTEL trusted execution technology TXT Xeon internet security and acceleration ISA cache as RAM converged security engine CSE technology converged security and manageability engine CSME technology a security co processor manageability engine trusted platform module platform trust technology ARM TRUSTZONE technology combinations thereof and the like. The nature advantages and limitations of each of these technologies are well understood and are therefore not described herein. In some embodiments of the present disclosure the authentication devices described herein include a TEE that is configured to temporarily store biometric reference templates received from a client device for use in a biometric authentication process. With the foregoing in mind one aspect of the present disclosure relates to a biometric authentication system. Reference is therefore made to which depicts an example biometric authentication system consistent with the present disclosure. As shown system includes client device and authentication device . Client device may be configured to store one or more biometric reference templates not shown and to conditionally transfer such templates to authentication device for use in a biometric authentication operation. Authentication device may be configured to receive biometric reference templates from client device temporarily store such templates in a protected environment use such templates in a biometric authentication operation and delete such templates from the protected environment upon the occurrence of a termination event.

It is noted that for the sake of clarity and ease of understanding device and authentication device are illustrated in in the form of a smart phone and a computer system respectively. Such illustration is for example only and it should be understood that client device and authentication device may be in the form of any suitable mobile or other electronic device including those specified above as being suitable for use as client devices and authentication devices. Without limitation client device is preferably in the form of a cell phone electronic reader laptop computer NFC enabled device notebook computer smart badge smart card smart phone tablet personal computer or ultra mobile personal computer. Also without limitation authentication device preferably forms all or a part of an authentication system that is protecting access to one or more physical or electronic resources.

For the sake of clarity and ease of understanding device platforms and have been illustrated in with limited components. This illustration is for example only and it should be understood that these device platforms may include other components including components that may be traditionally found in a device platform corresponding to the type and nature of the mobile or other electronic device used as client device and authentication device .

Device platforms and also respectively include processors memories and input output interfaces I O . Any suitable processor may be used as processor and or processor including but not limited to general purpose processors and application specific integrated circuits. Such processors may be capable of executing one or multiple threads on one or multiple processor cores. The type and nature of processors may be selected based on numerous factors such client authentication device form factor desired power consumption desired processing capability combinations thereof and the like. Thus for example if client device is a low power device such as a smart card or badge processor may be selected to support low power operation while providing sufficient processing capability for operations that will be performed by client device . Likewise processor may be selected based on similar criterion as well as operational characteristics that may be desired for the type of device used as authentication device . Non limiting examples of suitable processors that may be used as processors include the mobile and desktop processors commercially available from INTEL Advanced Micro Devices AMD Apple Samsung and Nvidia . Without limitation processor is preferably an Intel mobile processor or an application specific integrated circuit.

It should be understood that processor may differ in type and operational characteristics from processor . For example processor may be a low power application specific integrated circuit whereas processor may be a single or multicore general purpose processor such as a desktop or mobile device processor.

Memory and memory may be any suitable type of computer readable memory. Non limiting examples of memory types that may be used as memory and memory include semiconductor firmware memory programmable memory non volatile memory read only memory electrically programmable memory random access memory flash memory which may include for example NAND or NOR type memory structures magnetic disk memory optical disk memory combinations thereof and the like.

Additionally or alternatively memory and or memory may include other and or later developed types of computer readable memory. It should be understood that memory and memory need not be the same type of memory. For example memory maybe or include flash memory whereas memory may be or include random access memory magnetic memory or a combination thereof.

Input output interfaces I O are generally configured to facilitate or otherwise enable communication between client device and authentication device .

In this regard I O and I O may include hardware i.e. circuitry software or a combination of hardware and software that allows client device and authentication device to send and receive data signals and information to one another. In particular I O may include hardware software or a combination of hardware and software that enables client device to receive attestation information described below from authentication device and to transmit biometric reference templates to authentication device . Likewise I O may include hardware software or a combination of hardware and software that allows authentication device to receive biometric reference templates from client device and to transmit attestation information to client device .

Communication between client device and authentication device may occur over a close and or long range communications network using a predefined wired or wireless communications protocol. I Os and may therefore include hardware software or a combination of hardware and software that enables communication between client device and authentication device in this manner. For example I Os and may include one or more transponders antennas BLUETOOTH chips personal area network chips near field communication chips Wi Fi chips cellular antennas combinations thereof and the like. I O and I O may be preferably configured to enable client device and authentication device to communicate with each other using a mutually supported form of communication. In some embodiments I O and I O mutually support communication via a close range communications technology such as NFC a personal area network a ZigBee network combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation I O and I O are preferably configured to enable communication between client device and authentication device using NFC.

Client device may also include one or more biometric reference templates . In the embodiment of biometric reference templates are illustrated as stored in memory of client device . This illustration is for example only and biometric reference templates may be stored in any suitable memory of client . As will be described later biometric reference templates on client device may be used to support biometric authentication operations performed by authentication device .

The authentication devices described herein may include or be coupled to at least one sensor that may be used to obtain biometric test information from a user for use in a biometric authentication protocol. This concept is illustrated in wherein authentication device is depicted as including sensor s . Any type of sensor or combination of sensors may be used as sensor s provided that it they can obtain biometric test information from a user in connection with the performance of a biometric authentication operation by authentication device . Non limiting examples of such sensors include the sensors specified above as being suitable for the detection of biometric information. In some embodiments sensor s is are selected from thumb print readers hand print scanners iris scanners vascular pattern sensors handwriting verification sensors DNA sensors image and voice recognition systems accelerometers gyroscopes gait monitoring systems thermographic sensors biosignal brain wave cardiac sounds electrocardiogram etc. sensors odor sensors skin texture sensors combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation sensor s are preferably configured to obtain biometric test information that is consistent withal or a portion of the biometric reference data in biometric reference templates provided by client device .

As noted previously the authentication devices described herein may include a protected environment for the temporary storage of biometric reference templates received from a client device. This concept is illustrated in wherein authentication device is depicted as including TEE and memory enclave . While the present disclosure envisions authentication devices that include both TEE and memory enclave the combined use of those protected environments is not required. Indeed without limitation the authentication devices described herein are preferably configured to include either a TEE or a memory enclave as a protected environment for the storage of biometric reference templates. This concept is illustrated by the hashing of the boxes surrounding TEE and memory enclave which indicates that one or both of such protected environments may be included in authentication device .

For the sake of illustration memory enclave is depicted in as being included in memory . This illustration is for example only and it should be understood that memory enclave need not be provisioned within memory . Indeed the memory enclaves described herein including memory enclave may be provisioned within memory that is separate from memory . Memory enclave may for example be provisioned within memory local to processor within memory local to TEE e.g. a security co processor combinations thereof and the like.

Client device may be configured to initiate a biometric authentication operation with authentication device . For example CAM when executed by processor may cause client device to transmit a biometric authentication initiation signal BAIS not shown to authentication device e.g. from I O to I O using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof. Without limitation the BAIS is preferably communicated from client device to authentication device using a form of close range communication such as NFC. In such instances initiation of a biometric authentication protocol may take place once client device is within NFC communication range of authentication device .

Regardless of the mode of communication the BAIS may include a task certificate that includes a description of the task to be performed e.g. biometric authentication of a particular user according to a particular standard communication modes that are available to client device the type of biometric reference information contained in biometric reference templates or a combination thereof. For example the BAIS may indicate that biometric authentication of a particular user is to be performed by authentication device using all or a portion of the biometric reference information in biometric reference templates .

The BAIS may also specify the characteristics of a protected environment that it requires for the temporary storage of biometric reference templates . For example the BAIS may specify the use of a protected environment in the form of memory enclave a TEE provided by virtualization a TEE provided by a hardware module e.g. trusted platform module combinations thereof and the like. The BAIS may further specify the use of a protected environment having certain processing resources memory storage input output resources combinations thereof and the like which may be needed to execute a specified biometric authentication operation. Likewise the BAIS may specify the use of a protected environment that enforces a temporary storage policy in accordance with certain specified criterion. More specifically the BAIS may specify the use of a protected environment that enforces a temporary storage policy that results in the deletion of biometric reference template information from the protected environment upon the occurrence of a termination event.

Authentication device may be configured to perform certain operations in response to receiving a BAIS from client device . For example ADAM may include instructions that when executed by processor may cause authentication device to in response to receiving a BAIS send an attestation signal not shown to client e.g. via I O . In general the attestation signal may include information that may affect client device s decision to permit or deny the transfer of biometric reference templates to authentication device . For example the attestation signal may include attestation information that attests to the protected environment s maintained on authentication device . Attestation information may include for example information regarding vendor make model and or version of TEE and or memory enclave . In additional the attestation signal may provide information regarding a temporary storage policy enforced by the protected environment i.e. information regarding the protected environment s willingness and or capability to delete biometric reference templates or other information upon the occurrence of a termination event.

Client device may evaluate the capabilities of authentication device based on the attestation information contained in a received attestation signal. More specifically CAM when executed by processor may cause client device to analyze information in an attestation signal received from authentication device e.g. against the protected environment criterion and or temporary storage policy criterion specified in the BAIS. If client device determines that authentication device lacks an adequate protected environment and or temporary storage policy it may decline to transfer any or all of biometric reference templates to authentication device and the process may fail. Alternatively client device may revise the criteria specified in the BAIS for the protected environment on authentication device and may reevaluate the capabilities of authentication device based on the revised criteria.

In some embodiments transmission of biometric reference templates from client device to authentication device may be conditioned on successful verification of the authenticity of authentication device its protected environment its temporary storage policy or a combination thereof. Verification of authenticity may be carried out using one or more electronic signature protocols such as the INTEL Enhanced Privacy Identification EPID protocol the direct autonomous attestation DAA protocol a remote anonymous attestation RAA protocol a SIGMA sign and message authentication code MAC protocol combinations thereof and the like combinations thereof and the like.

As may be appreciated EPID is a specialization of DAA with enhanced revocation properties. Details regarding the EPID and DAA protocols may be found in E. Brickell and Jiangtao Li Enhanced Privacy ID A Direct Anonymous Attestation Scheme with Enhanced Revocation capabilities Aug. 17 2007 and Brickell et al. Direct Autonomous Attestation 11ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security Oct. 25 29 2004. Generally EPID and DAA permit data to be signed with a private identification key e.g. an EPID private key that is unique to one device and which may be verified using a corresponding public key e.g. an EPID public key that is distributed among various other devices. In some embodiments the authentication devices described herein store a private key used in EPID or DAA in a protected environment such as TEE and or memory enclave and the corresponding public key used to verify the private identification key is stored in a memory of client device .

One example of a suitable SIGMA protocol that may be used is the modified Sigma protocol described in SIGMA the Sign and Mac Approach to Authenticated Diffie Hellman and its Use in the IKE protocol Hugo Krawczyk Proceedings of Crypto 2003 Springer Verlag Lecture Notes in Computer Science No. 2729 p. 399.

In instances where verification of the authenticity of authentication device is made using an electronic signature protocol authentication device may store one or more private keys not shown for such protocol and client device may store one or more public keys not shown corresponding to the private keys. Such keys may be stored in memory and memory respectively or in another memory of authentication device and client device .

When executed by a processor such as processor ADAM may cause authentication device to sign its attestation information with one or more of its private keys. The signed attestation information may then be transferred to client device .

In response to receiving signed attestation information from authentication device client device may verify the authenticity of authentication device using its public keys. For example if authentication device signs its attestation information with a DAA or EPID private key e.g. stored in TEE or memory enclave CAM when executed may cause client device to verify the authenticity of the private key using a corresponding DAA or EPID public key e.g. stored in memory .

As one example of an attestation method in accordance with the present disclosure reference is made to which depicts an example attestation flow using EPID. As shown the pairing protocol begins with operation 1 wherein client device is detected by authentication device . Detection of client device may occur in any suitable manner and may flow from the establishment of a communications link between authentication device and client device . The method may then proceed to operation 2 wherein authentication device may sign attestation information with EPID private key which may be stored in memory of a protected environment e.g. a TEE memory enclave or combination thereof maintained on authentication device .

The method may then proceed to operation 3 wherein client device verifies the EPID private key and attestation information . In this instance client device may verify the EPID private key using a corresponding EPID public key which may be stored in a memory of client device . Verification of the attestation information may be performed by comparing the content of attestation information against a whitelist of acceptable protected environments and a blacklist of unacceptable protected environments illustrated in as whitelist and blacklist . If verification of the EPID private key and the attestation information succeeds the method may proceed to operation 4 wherein the client device transmits one or more biometric reference templates to authentication device as further described below.

It is noted that the method flow shown in presumes that client device is pre provisioned with an EPID or other suitable protocol public key and that authentication device is pre provisioned with an EPID or other suitable protocol private key. Such configuration is for example only and public and private keys need not be pre provisioned on client device and authentication device respectively. For example client device and authentication device may each include network connectivity circuitry e.g. in I O s that is configured to allow client device and authentication device to communicate with and obtain relevant keys from a remote certification authority not shown . Communication with the remote certification authority may occur via close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof. In any case it may be understood that the certification authority may provide relevant public private keys and optionally other information e.g. revocation lists white lists block lists etc. to client device and authentication device .

Once client device determines that a protected environment and associated temporary storage policy on authentication device is adequate and upon successful validation of the authenticity of authentication device if required client device may communicate one or more of biometric reference templates to authentication device . Communication of the biometric reference templates to authentication device may occur via I O using any suitable mode of communication including close range communication and long range communication. Without limitation client device preferably transmits one or more of biometric reference templates to authentication device using a mutually supported close range communications network such as but not limited to NFC.

As may be appreciated biometric reference templates may include a wide variety of biometric reference information pertaining to a user that will be subject to biometric authentication by authentication device . With this in mind contextual information in an attestation signal from authentication device may indicate that sensors are capable of only obtaining certain types of biometric test information. In such instances CAM when executed may cause client device to limit the biometric reference information contained in biometric reference templates transferred to authentication device to the type of biometric test information that may be obtained using sensors .

For example memory of client device may store a biometric reference template containing iris information of a user and a biometric reference template containing DNA information of a user. Contextual information in an attestation signal from authentication device may indicate that authentication device only includes an iris scanner as sensor s . As a result client device may permit the biometric reference template containing iris information to be transmitted to authentication device but may prevent the transmission of the biometric reference template containing DNA information. In this way biometric reference information provided to authentication device is limited to the type of information that the type of biometric test information is capable of obtaining with its available sensors.

The foregoing operations of client device are generally illustrated in which depicts an example flow diagram of a method of providing a biometric authentication template from a client device to an authentication device. As shown method begins a block . At block a determination may by a client device as to whether a connection e.g. communications channel has been established with an authentication device e.g. within an allotted period of time. If not the method may proceed to block and end.

Once a connection with an authentication device has been established the method may proceed to block wherein the client device may monitor for the receipt of attestation information from the authentication device. For example CAM may cause device to monitor I O for the receipt of attestation information from authentication device .

The method may then proceed to block wherein a determination may be made as to whether the client device has received attestation information from an authentication device within an allotted time period. If not the method may proceed to block and end. But if attestation information is received the method may proceed to block wherein the client device may evaluate the capabilities of the authentication device based on the received attestation information as generally described above. More specifically CAM when executed may cause client device to evaluate the attestation information received from an authentication device to determine whether the authentication device can be trusted to store biometric reference templates in an adequate protected environment and to enforce a suitable temporary storage policy. This determination may depend in part on the client device s verification of an EPID DAA private key that may have been used by authentication device to sign the attestation information. The determination may also depend in whole or in part on a comparison by the client device of criterion specified in a biometric authentication initiation signal BAIS previously sent by the client device to the authentication device not shown .

At block a determination may be made by the client as to whether attestation of the authentication device has passed. If attestation fails the method may proceed to block wherein a determination may be made as to whether the criterion for an acceptable protected environment and or temporary storage policy will be changed. If not the method proceeds to block and ends. If so the criterion for successful attestation are changed by the client device and the method loops back to block .

Once attestation passes the method may proceed from block to block wherein the client device transmits biometric reference templates to the authentication device using any suitable form communication as previously discussed. Once the relevant biometric reference templates are transmitted to the authentication device the method may proceed to block and end.

Returning to in response to receiving one or more biometric reference templates from client device authentication device may be configured to perform certain operations including biometric template storage operations biometric authentication operations and temporary storage operations consistent with the present disclosure. More specifically in response to the receipt of one or more biometric reference templates ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to store the received biometric reference template s in its protected environment s . For example ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to store received biometric reference templates in TEE memory enclave or a combination thereof.

Once received biometric reference templates have been stored in a protected environment ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to execute a biometric authentication protocol to verify the identity of a user requesting access to a system or services protected by authentication device . In some embodiments execution of the biometric authentication protocol may begin with the appropriate selection of sensor s . In this regard ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to determine the type and nature of the biometric reference information contained in the biometric reference templates received from client device . Based on this analysis ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to select which sensor s it will use to biometrically authenticate the user.

For example a biometric reference template received from client device may include iris information only yet sensors of authentication device may include an iris scanner and a thumb print reader. In such instances ADAM may cause authentication device to use the iris scanner to biometrically authenticate a user as the iris scanner is capable of obtaining biometric test information that is consistent with the biometric reference data in the biometric reference template. Of course the selection of appropriate sensors may be omitted particularly when sensors include a single sensor type.

In any case ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to attempt to biometrically verify the identity of a user any or all of the sensors available to it e.g. sensor s . If biometric authentication using one type of sensor fails authentication device may attempt to use another available sensor or the method may fail. But if biometric authentication of the user succeeds ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to establish an authenticated session during which the user may be permitted to access systems and or resources protected by authentication device .

Once an authenticated session is established authentication device may be further configured to maintain the authenticated session until the occurrence of one or more termination events. As will be described in detail below termination events may include but are not limited to the expiration of a predetermined time period timeout failure of authentication device to detect client device failure of authentication device to detect the presence of a user i.e. failure to detect human presence failure of the authentication device to verify the presence of the authenticated user i.e. failure to detect the specific authenticated user failure of authentication device to maintain a specified degree of confidence that the authenticated user is present combinations thereof and the like.

In this regard ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to monitor for the occurrence of a termination event. Such monitoring may be performed in any suitable manner such as in a manner that may enable authentication device to detect the example termination events types specified above. For example ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to monitor a timer that is set up upon the establishment of an authenticated session. The timer may define a specific time period that the authenticated session will remain open. Running of the timer in some embodiments may be conditioned on the failure of authentication device to detect user interaction with electronic and or physical resources it protects. In any case authentication device may be configured to consider the expiration of the timer to be a termination event.

Alternatively or additionally ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to monitor for the presence of client device . In this regard authentication device may be configured to leverage its available resources such as I O to detect the presence of client device . For example authentication device may use I O to monitor for the existence of a communications link channel with client device . In such instances the presence of a communications link channel with client device may be considered an indicator that client device is present particularly if the communication channel is established using a form of close range communication such as NFC. Conversely failure of I O to detect the existence of a communications channel link with client device may be considered an indicator that client device is not present. Authentication device may also use sensors to detect the presence of client device .

For example where sensors include a camera authentication device may use the camera to capture an image of its surroundings and then use an image recognition protocol to analyze the resulting images in an attempt to identify client device . Identification of client device in the image may be considered an indicator that client device is present whereas failure to identify client device in the image may be considered an indicator that client device is not present. In any case authentication device may consider a failure to detect client device a termination event.

Authentication device may also be configured to monitor for the presence of a human being once an authenticated session has been established. In this regard ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to monitor for the presence of a human in any suitable manner. For example ADAM may cause authentication device to monitor for inputs made with one or more input devices e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen etc. coupled to electronic resources that authentication device protects. Detection of inputs made through such input devices may be considered evidence that a human being is present whereas a lack of such inputs may be considered evidence that a human being is not present.

Similarly authentication device may be configured to use sensor s to detect the presence of a human. For example where sensor s include a camera microphone pressure sensor accelerometer gyroscope etc. ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to use such sensors in an attempt to gather evidence of the presence of a human. Such evidence may include for example noises detected by a microphone consistent with human presence images captured by a camera that show a human being data from an accelerometer gyroscope etc. that is consistent or inconsistent with the presence of a human combinations thereof and the like. Authentication device may also detect human presence by requesting that a particular action be performed. For example authentication device may be configured to display an interactive button on a screen thereof and ask the user to periodically interact with the button to verify human presence.

In any case ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to analyze evidence of human presence or lack thereof and make an inference as to whether a human is present at the system resources that authentication device protects. If the weight of the evidence suggests that a human is not present authentication device may consider this fact to constitute a termination event.

Authentication device may also be configured to periodically or continuously monitor for the presence of a specific human being such as the user that was authorized with the biometric reference templates provided by client . Periodic or continuous monitoring of specific user presence may be performed in any suitable manner. For example ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to utilize available resources such as I O and sensor s to determine whether a specific authenticated user is still present.

In some embodiments this continuous monitoring may be performed using the same biometric protocol and reference templates that were used to initially authenticate the user. Such a method may be particularly useful when the biometric authentication methodology relies on biometric test information that can be obtained with limited or no user action such as facial recognition eye iris recognition etc.

Alternatively or additionally authentication device may be configured to gather contextual data that supports or cuts against the presence of a specific human using its available resources and make a determination as to whether the user is present or not based on a confidence level that is determined from such data. In this regard authentication device may include a continuous authentication confidence module CACM not shown which may be stored in memory and or a memory within TEE and or memory enclave . The CACM may be configured to determine a confidence level that is reflective of the degree of confidence it has that a specific human e.g. a human biometrically authenticated by authentication device is present while an authenticated session is active.

The CACM may determine the confidence level by causing authentication device to gather contextual data that supports or cuts against the likelihood that a specific human is still present. Contextual data may include but is not limited to biometric information specific habits personal information activities computing environments relationships e.g. with people places or things user devices including computing devices physical environment information captured from sensors such as sensor s or inferences drawn from that information preferences patterns of behavior and or any other information useful in identifying the specific human or predicting an activity of the specific human.

The CACM may be further configured to cause authentication device to gather presence evidence e.g. using sensors or other components such as I O . Presence evidence includes evidence of the presence of a human human presence evidence as well as evidence of the presence of a specific human specific human presence evidence .

The operations of the CACM may be initiated in response to an initial biometric authentication of a human that e.g. initiates an authenticated session. Once an authenticated session is established the CACM may be configured to assign an initial confidence level based on the initial successful biometric authentication. The initial confidence level may also be configured to decay at a rate that may be related to one or more factors such as contextual data history of the human that was initially authenticated behavior of the human that was initially authenticated the environment perceived risk etc.

Once the initial confidence level is set the CACM may dynamically adjust the confidence level based on available contextual data and or presence evidence that is periodically or continuously obtained by authentication device . The CACM may apply contextual data and or presence evidence supporting a determination that the human that was initially biometrically authenticated by authentication device to adjust the confidence level upwards. Conversely the CACM may apply contextual data and or presence evidence suggesting that the authenticated human is not presence to adjust the confidence level downwards. The degree to which the confidence level is adjusted upwards or downwards may depend on a weighting value assigned to contextual data and or presence evidence with relatively strong evidence data being applied by the CACM to increase decrease the confidence level to a greater degree than relatively weak evidence data.

The CACM may be further configured to adjust its operation based on whether the confidence level exceeds or falls below one or more threshold confidence levels. For example the CACM may set a first second and third threshold confidence levels. When the confidence level is above the first threshold level the CACM may be configured to use low power sensors to obtain presence evidence and locally available contextual data to update the confidence level. If the confidence level decreases below the first threshold but is above the second threshold level the CACM may elect to us higher power sensors e.g. a camera facial recognition etc. to obtain presence evidence. In addition the CACM may attempt to connect with remote computing resources such as a database server to obtain additional contextual data that may be useful in its monitoring for the presence of the human initially biometrically authenticated by device .

If the confidence level falls below the second threshold level the CACM may be configured to cause authentication device to attempt to obtain active presence evidence. Active presence evidence is evidence that requires an action from a human such as the human initially authenticated by authentication device . For example the CACM may cause authentication device to request a specific user action such as the entry of a user name and or password biometric reauthentication of the user etc. If the confidence level falls below the third threshold the CACM may report such occurrence to ADAM as a termination event.

Authentication device may be further configured to perform certain operations upon the detection of a termination event. For example ADAM when executed may cause authentication device to perform session termination operations and biometric reference template deletion operations consistent with the present disclosure. More specifically upon the occurrence of a termination event ADAM may cause authentication device to terminate a pending authenticated session and to delete any biometric reference templates from its protected environments. By way of example authentication device may store biometric reference templates received from client device in TEE and or memory enclave . Upon successful biometric authentication of a user with such templates authentication device may establish an authenticated session and monitor for the occurrence of a termination event as previously described. Upon the detection of a termination event authentication device may terminate the authenticated session and delete biometric reference templates from TEE and or memory enclave . As a result biometric reference templates of a user may be only temporarily stored on authentication device .

Another aspect of the present disclosure relates to a method of performing biometric authentication with an authentication device consistent with the present disclosure.

Reference is therefore made to which depicts a flow diagram of an example biometric authentication method consistent with the present disclosure. It is noted that details of many operations of the method illustrated in have been previously described. Accordingly the operations performed pursuant to this method will not be reiterated in detail.

As shown method begins at block . At block a determination may be made by an authentication device as to whether a connection with a client device has been established. If a connection with a client device has not been established the method may proceed to block and end. If a connection with a client device has been established the method may proceed to block wherein the authentication device attests its protected environment and or temporary storage policy to the client device. As noted previously attestation by the authentication device may be in response to the receipt of a biometric authentication initiation signal BAIS from the client device.

The method may then proceed to block wherein the authentication device monitors for the receipt of biometric reference templates from the client device. As noted previously client device may condition the transmission of biometric reference templates on successful attestation of the authentication device s protected environment and or temporary storage policy. At block a determination may be made by the authentication device as to whether one or more biometric templates have been received. If receipt of such templates is scheduled to occur within an allotted time period and the templates have not been received the method may proceed to optional block wherein a determination is made as to whether the allotted time has expired. If the allotted time has not expired the method may return to block . But if the allotted time has expired or if a time limit was not established for receipt of biometric reference templates the method may proceed to block and end.

Alternatively or additionally the method pursuant to block may prompt a user and or a client device to retry sending the biometric templates not shown . In such instances the method may permit a fixed number of retries log an error or a combination thereof before proceeding to block and ending.

Upon receipt of one of more biometric templates from a client device the method may proceed to block . Pursuant to this block the authentication device may store received biometric templates in an appropriate protected environment. In addition the authentication device may analyze the received biometric templates and select appropriate sensors for the collection of biometric test information for use in a biometric authentication operation. The authentication device will then attempt to perform biometric authentication of a user using the biometric reference template and biometric test information that obtained with the selected sensor s .

At block a determination may be made as to whether biometric authentication operation of the user succeeded. If not the method may proceed to block wherein a determination is made as to whether other sensors are available to the authentication device and could be used to perform biometric authentication of the user. If so the method may loop back to block and the authentication device may attempt to biometrically authenticate the user with the newly selected sensor s . If no additional sensors are available to the authentication device e.g. where prior iterations of operations pursuant to block relied on all sensor s in one or multiple iterations the method may proceed to block and end. In some embodiments all the sensors that may be need to satisfy a multi factoral biometric authentication policy are used in a single iteration of the operations of block . If biometric authentication of the user performed in block succeeds the method may proceed to block . Pursuant to such block the authentication device may establish an authenticated session whereupon the user may be permitted to access resources that the authentication device protects. The method may then proceed to block wherein the authentication device periodically or continuously monitors for the occurrence of a termination event. At block a determination is made as to whether the authentication device has detected a termination event. If not the method may loop back to block whereupon the authentication device continues to monitor for a termination event while maintain the authenticated session.

Upon detection of a termination event the method may proceed to block wherein the authentication device terminates the authenticated session and deletes the biometric reference templates stored in its protected environment according to its temporary storage policy. Once the biometric reference templates are deleted the method may proceed to block and end.

As may be appreciated by the foregoing description the biometric authentication technology described herein may enable the performance of biometric authentication operations using biometric templates that are only temporarily stored on an authentication device and which are deleted upon the occurrence of a termination event. Permanent or substantially permanent storage of biometric reference templates may be limited to a client device that remains under control of an individual preferably the individual that is the target of the biometric authentication operations. This may enhance the users control over the biometric reference templates thereby lowering or eliminating privacy concerns associated with traditional biometric authentication systems.

Accordingly one example of the present disclosure is an authentication device including a processor and a memory configured to store a biometric reference template the biometric reference template including biometric reference information of a human and a client authentication module CAM configured to evaluate attestation information received from an authentication device and determine whether the authentication device includes a protected environment meeting at least one first predetermined criterion for temporary storage of the biometric reference template the CAM further configured to permit transmission of the biometric reference template to the authentication device if the protected environment meets the first predetermined criterion.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to deny transmission of the biometric reference template to the authentication device is the protected environment does not meet the at least one first predetermined criterion.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to initiate a connection with the authentication device.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the at least one first predetermined criterion includes a collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and information regarding the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence and the client authentication module evaluates the attestation information by comparing the attestation information to the collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to determine whether the authentication device is configured to execute a temporary storage policy meeting at least one second predetermined criterion the temporary storage policy defining parameters for the temporary storage and deletion of biometric reference templates from the protected environment the client authentication module further configured to permit transmission of the biometric reference template if the temporary storage policy meets the at least one second predetermined criterion.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to deny transmission of the biometric reference template if the temporary storage policy does not meet the at least one second predetermined criterion.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes input output circuitry configured to communicate with the authentication device using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the authentication device using near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to verify the authenticity of a private identification key used to sign the attestation information.

Another example client device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and a combination thereof.

Another example of the presence disclosure is an authentication device including a processor a memory a protected environment and an authentication device attestation module ADAM wherein the ADAM is configured to store a biometric reference template received from a client device in the protected environment biometrically authenticate a human with the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment establish an authenticated session if biometric authentication of the human is successful and delete the biometric reference template upon the detection of a termination event.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM is further configured to transmit attestation information to the client device the attestation information including information about the protected environment.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the attestation information further including information about a temporary storage policy executed by the authentication device.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the biometric authentication is further performed using biometric test information obtained from the human using at least one sensor.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes a sensor configured to obtain biometric test information from the human the CAM further configured to perform the biometric authentication using the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes a plurality of sensors configured to obtain biometric test information from the human wherein the CAM is further configured to determine the type of biometric reference information contained in the biometric reference template select a first subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtain the biometric test information from the human with the first subset of the plurality of sensors and perform the biometric authentication of the human with the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein if the biometric authentication device fails the CAM is further configured to select a second subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtain the biometric test information from the human with the second subset of the plurality of sensors and perform the biometric authentication of the human with the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the termination event is selected from the expiration of a predetermined time period failure of the authentication device to detect the client device failure of the authentication device to detect a human presence failure of the authentication device to verify the presence of the human failure of the authentication device maintain a specified degree of confidence that the human is present failure of the biometric authentication of the human and combinations thereof.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM is further configured to monitor for the occurrence of the termination event.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and combinations thereof.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes input output circuitry configured to communicate with the client device using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the client device using near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example authentication device includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM is further configured to sign the attestation information with a private identification key prior to transmission of the attestation information to the client device.

Another example of the present disclosure is a method of transferring a biometric template with a client device. The method includes evaluating attestation information received from an authentication device the evaluating including determining whether the authentication device includes a protected environment meeting at least one first predetermined criterion for the temporary storage of a biometric reference template resident on the client device and permitting the transmission of the biometric reference templates from the client device to the authentication device if the protected environment meets the at least one first predetermined criterion.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes denying the transmission of the biometric reference templates to the authentication device is the protected environment does not meet the first criterion.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes initiating a connection the authentication device.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the at least one first predetermined criterion includes a collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and information regarding the authentication and information regarding the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence and said attestation information is evaluated by comparing said attestation information to said collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and to said information regarding the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes determining whether the authentication device is configured to execute a temporary storage policy meeting at least one second predetermined criterion the temporary storage policy defining parameters for the temporary storage and deletion of the biometric reference template from the protected environment and permitting transmission of the biometric reference template from the client device to the authentication device if the temporary storage policy meets the at least one predetermined second criteria.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes denying the transmission of the biometric reference template if the temporary storage policy does not meet the at least one second predetermined criterion.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes transmitting the biometric reference template from the client device to the authentication device using at least one of close range communication and long range communication.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes transmitting the biometric reference template from the client device to the authentication device using at least one of near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components verifying the authenticity of a private identification key used by the authentication device to sign the attestation information.

Another example method of transferring a biometric template includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and a combination thereof.

Another example of the present disclosure is a method of performing biometric authentication with an authentication device. The method includes storing a biometric reference template received from a client device in a protected environment of the authentication device biometrically authenticating a human with the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment establishing an authenticated session if biometric authentication of the human is successful and deleting the biometric reference template upon the detection of a termination event.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes transmitting attestation information from the authentication device to the client device the attestation information including information about the protected environment.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the attestation information further includes information about a temporary storage policy executed by the authentication device.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes including obtaining biometric test information from the human with at least one sensor of the authentication device and biometrically authenticating the human with the authentication device using the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the authentication device includes a plurality of sensors configured to obtain biometric test information from the human the method further including determining with the authentication device the type of biometric reference information contained in the biometric reference template selecting with the authentication device a first subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtaining the biometric test information from the human with the first subset of the plurality of sensors and biometrically authenticating the human with the authentication device using the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein if biometric authentication of the human with the biometric test information obtained with the first subset of the plurality of sensors fails the method further includes selecting with the authentication device a second subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtaining the biometric test information from the human with the second subset of the plurality of sensors and biometrically authenticating the human with the biometric test information obtained using with the second subset of the plurality of sensors and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the termination event is selected from the expiration of a predetermined time period failure of the authentication device to detect the client device failure of the authentication device to detect a human presence failure of the authentication device to verify the presence of the human failure of the authentication device maintain a specified degree of confidence that the human is present failure of the biometric authentication of the human and combinations thereof.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes monitoring for the occurrence of the termination event.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and combinations thereof.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes receiving the biometric reference template with input output circuitry of the authentication device wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the client device using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the client device using near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example method of performing biometric authentication includes any or all of the foregoing components and further includes signing the attestation information with a private identification key prior to transmitting the attestation information to the client device from the authentication device.

Another example of the present disclosure is a biometric authentication system. The system includes a client device. The client device includes a processor a memory configured to store a biometric reference template the biometric reference template including biometric reference information of a human and a client authentication module CAM configured to evaluate attestation information received from an authentication device and determine whether the authentication device includes a protected environment meeting at least one first predetermined criterion for temporary storage of the biometric reference template the CAM further configured to permit transmission of the biometric reference template to the authentication device if the protected environment meets the first predetermined criterion.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to deny transmission of the biometric reference template to the authentication device is the protected environment does not meet the at least one first predetermined criterion.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to initiate a connection with the authentication device.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the at least one first predetermined criterion includes a collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and information regarding the authentication and information regarding the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence and said attestation information is evaluated by comparing said attestation information to said collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and to said information regarding the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to determine whether the authentication device is configured to execute a temporary storage policy meeting at least one second predetermined criterion the temporary storage policy defining parameters for the temporary storage and deletion of biometric reference templates from the protected environment the client authentication module further configured to permit transmission of the biometric reference template if the temporary storage policy meets the at least one second predetermined criterion.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to deny transmission of the biometric reference template if the temporary storage policy does not meet the at least one second predetermined criterion.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the client device further includes input output circuitry configured to communicate with the authentication device using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the authentication device using near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM is further configured to verify the authenticity of a private identification key used to sign the attestation information.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and a combination thereof.

Another example of the present disclosure is a biometric authentication system including an authentication device. The authentication device includes a processor a memory a protected environment and an authentication device attestation module ADAM wherein the ADAM is configured to store a biometric reference template received from a client device in the protected environment biometrically authenticate a human with the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment establish an authenticated session if biometric authentication of the human is successful and delete the biometric reference template upon the detection of a termination event.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM is further configured to transmit attestation information to the client device the attestation information including information about the protected environment.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the attestation information further including information about a temporary storage policy executed by the authentication device.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the biometric authentication is further performed using biometric test information obtained from the human using at least one sensor.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the authentication device further includes a sensor configured to obtain biometric test information from the human the CAM further configured to perform the biometric authentication using the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the authentication device further includes a plurality of sensors configured to obtain biometric test information from the human wherein the CAM is further configured to determine the type of biometric reference information contained in the biometric reference template select a first subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtain the biometric test information from the human with the first subset of the plurality of sensors and perform the biometric authentication of the human with the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein if the biometric authentication device fails the CAM is further configured to select a second subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtain the biometric test information from the human with the second subset of the plurality of sensors and perform the biometric authentication of the human with the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the termination event is selected from the expiration of a predetermined time period failure of the authentication device to detect the client device failure of the authentication device to detect a human presence failure of the authentication device to verify the presence of the human failure of the authentication device maintain a specified degree of confidence that the human is present failure of the biometric authentication of the human and combinations thereof.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM is further configured to monitor for the occurrence of the termination event.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and combinations thereof.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the authentication device further includes input output circuitry configured to communicate with the client device using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the client device using near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example biometric authentication system includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM is further configured to sign the attestation information with a private identification key prior to transmission of the attestation information to the client device.

Another example of the present disclosure is a biometric authentication system that includes means for performing any or all of the method operations described herein.

Another example of the present disclosure is at least one computer readable medium including computer readable client authentication module CAM instructions stored therein wherein the CAM instructions when executed by a processor of client device cause the client device to perform the following operations including evaluating attestation information received from an authentication device the evaluating including determining whether the authentication device includes a protected environment meeting at least one first predetermined criterion for the temporary storage of a biometric reference template resident on the client device and permitting the transmission of the biometric reference templates from the client device to the authentication device if the protected environment meets the at least one first predetermined criterion.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the client device to perform the following operation including denying the transmission of the biometric reference templates to the authentication device is the protected environment does not meet the first criterion.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the client device to perform the following operation including initiating a connection the authentication device.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the at least one first predetermined criterion includes a collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and information regarding the authentication and information regarding the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence and said attestation information is evaluated by comparing said attestation information to said collection of predetermined acceptable and unacceptable protected environments and to said information regarding the authentication device s ability to hold said biometric reference template in confidence.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the client device to perform the following operation including determining whether the authentication device is configured to execute a temporary storage policy meeting at least one second predetermined criterion the temporary storage policy defining parameters for the temporary storage and deletion of the biometric reference template from the protected environment and permitting transmission of the biometric reference template from the client device to the authentication device if the temporary storage policy meets the at least one predetermined second criteria.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the client device to perform the following operation including denying the transmission of the biometric reference template if the temporary storage policy does not meet the at least one second predetermined criterion.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the client device to perform the following operation including transmitting the biometric reference template from the client device to the authentication device using at least one of close range communication and long range communication.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the client device to perform the following operation including transmitting the biometric reference template from the client device to the authentication device using at least one of near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the CAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the client device to perform the following operation including verifying the authenticity of a private identification key used by the authentication device to sign the attestation information.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and a combination thereof.

Another example of the present disclosure is at least one computer readable medium having computer readable authentication device attestation module ADAM instructions stored thereon wherein the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor of an authentication device cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including storing a biometric reference template received from a client device in a protected environment of the authentication device biometrically authenticating a human with the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment establishing an authenticated session if biometric authentication of the human is successful and deleting the biometric reference template upon the detection of a termination event.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including transmitting attestation information from the authentication device to the client device the attestation information including information about the protected environment.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the attestation information further includes information about a temporary storage policy executed by the authentication device.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including obtaining biometric test information from the human with at least one sensor of the authentication device and biometrically authenticating the human with the authentication device using the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the authentication device includes a plurality of sensors configured to obtain biometric test information from the human and the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including determining with the authentication device the type of biometric reference information contained in the biometric reference template selecting with the authentication device a first subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtaining the biometric test information from the human with the first subset of the plurality of sensors and biometrically authenticating the human with the authentication device using the biometric test information and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein if biometric authentication of the human with the biometric test information obtained with the first subset of the plurality of sensors fails the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including selecting with the authentication device a second subset of the plurality of sensors capable of obtaining biometric test information of a type corresponding to the biometric reference information obtaining the biometric test information from the human with the second subset of the plurality of sensors and biometrically authenticating the human with the biometric test information obtained using with the second subset of the plurality of sensors and the biometric reference template stored in the protected environment.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the termination event is selected from the expiration of a predetermined time period failure of the authentication device to detect the client device failure of the authentication device to detect a human presence failure of the authentication device to verify the presence of the human failure of the authentication device maintain a specified degree of confidence that the human is present failure of the biometric authentication of the human and combinations thereof.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including monitoring for the occurrence of the termination event.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the protected environment is selected from a trusted execution environment a memory enclave and combinations thereof.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including receiving the biometric reference template with input output circuitry of the authentication device wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the client device using close range communication long range communication or a combination thereof.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the input output circuitry is configured to communicate with the client device using near field communication radio frequency identification a personal area network or a combination thereof.

Another example at least one computer readable medium includes any or all of the foregoing components wherein the ADAM instructions when executed by the processor further cause the authentication device to perform the following operations including signing the attestation information with a private identification key prior to transmitting the attestation information to the client device from the authentication device.

The terms and expressions which have been employed herein are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof and it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the claims. Accordingly the claims are intended to cover all such equivalents.

