---

title: Line of sight (LOS) detection in a cellular communications network
abstract: Systems and methods for detecting a Line of Sight (LOS) in a cellular communications network are provided. In one embodiment, a network node in the cellular communications network determines whether a wireless device is within LOS of a base station. In order do so, the network node compares a Ricean factor of a wireless communications channel between the base station and the wireless device and a predetermined Ricean factor threshold for LOS detection. In addition, the network node compares a Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) between a Rayleigh probability density function and samples of received signal strength for radio signals transmitted between the base station and the wireless device and a predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection. The network node then determines whether the wireless device is within LOS of the base station based on results of the comparisons.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575157&OS=09575157&RS=09575157
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 09575157
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20150814
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 886 886 filed May 3 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to Line of Sight LOS detection and more particularly relates to LOS detection in a cellular communications network.

Cellular communications networks enable wireless communication for various types of wireless devices. Positioning of wireless devices within a cellular communications network has many emerging applications ranging from security and emergency services to environmental monitoring to command and control. While technologies such as the Global Positioning System GPS have enabled accurate positioning of wireless devices in most environments there are still many challenging environments in which positioning of wireless devices is difficult e.g. inside buildings inside tunnels etc. . In these challenging environments positioning of a wireless device can be determined by estimating different parameters of a radio signal received by the wireless device such as a Time of Arrival TOA of the radio signal a Direction of Arrival DOA of the radio signal and a Received Signal Strength RSS of the radio signal. The accuracy of TOA and DOA based positioning techniques is greater than that of other techniques such as RSS based positioning techniques.

One issue with TOA and DOA based positioning techniques is multi path propagation or scattering of the received radio signal. As a result of multi path propagation multiple versions of the radio signal arrive at the receiver via multiple different radio propagation paths. Each of these radio propagation paths has different characteristics e.g. different time delays . Utilization of TOA and DOA based positioning techniques in a multi path environment requires a Line of Sight LOS path between the transmitter and the receiver.

Several mechanisms exist for detecting LOS in robotics and direct point to point wireless systems. In particular a paper entitled Incremental Multi Robot Deployment for Line of Sight Chains Using Only Radio Signal Strength by John O Hollaren and Dylan Shell presented at the International Conference on Robotics and Automation ICRA 2010 Multi Robot Autonomy Workshop describes a technique for determining whether two robots that are equipped with wireless radios are within LOS of one another using signal statistics from the wireless radios. In particular the paper teaches that a Root Mean Square Error RMSE between a Rayleigh Probability Density Function PDF and Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI measurements for the received radio signal at the wireless device of one of the robots is a good indicator of LOS or non LOS. In particular a low RMSE is a good indicator of LOS whereas a large RMSE is a good indicator of non LOS.

Further U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0225665 entitled CHARACTERIZATION OF A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS LINK teaches making a LOS determination based on known locations of a transmitter and a receiver a known transmit power of the transmitter and a known received power at the receiver. Using this information an observed path loss is calculated and compared to a modeled path loss. If a difference between the observed path loss and the modeled path loss is small then a determination is made that there is a LOS path between the transmitter and the receiver. A bypass mode is also taught wherein if a distance between the transmitter and the receiver is small the path between the transmitter and the receiver is presumed to be a LOS path.

However prior mechanisms for detecting LOS such as the ones discussed above are not reliable in all situations. For example the technique taught in the O Hollaren paper is not reliable under a low mobility scenario unless a large number of RSSI measurements are used. A large number of RSSI measurements leads to complex processing at the receiver which is not desirable in many applications. The technique taught by U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0225665 requires a known location for both the transmitter and the receiver and as such is not reliable in scenarios where the location of the transmitter and or the location of the receiver are not known e.g. an application where LOS detection is part of a positioning process to determine a position or location of the transmitter or the receiver . Further as a result of the issues noted above prior mechanisms cannot be used to reliably detect LOS in all scenarios that are often encountered in complex environments such as a modern cellular communications network which have various mobility distance and propagation scenarios. As such there is a need for systems and methods for reliably detecting LOS in a cellular communications network.

Systems and methods for detecting Line of Sight LOS in a cellular communications network are provided. In one embodiment a network node in the cellular communications network determines whether a wireless device is within LOS of a base station of the cellular communications network. In order do so the network node compares i a Ricean factor of a wireless communications channel between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined Ricean factor threshold for LOS detection. In addition the network node compares i a Root Mean Squared Error RMSE between a Rayleigh PDF and samples of a received signal strength for radio signals transmitted between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection. The network node then determines whether the wireless device is within LOS of the base station based on results of the comparisons. By utilizing results of both of the comparisons LOS detection is provided with substantially improved accuracy.

In one embodiment a best fit analysis is performed to select the Rayleigh PDF from a set of Rayleigh PDFs for different maximum likelihood values based on the samples of the received signal strength for the radio signals transmitted between the base station and the wireless device. In this manner a Rayleigh PDF that best fits to the Rayleigh distribution of Non Line of Sight NLOS channels in this specific environment is selected and utilized for the comparison which in turn improves an accuracy of the LOS path detection.

In another embodiment a network node in the cellular communications network determines whether a wireless device is within LOS of a base station of the cellular communications network. In order do so the network node compares a Ricean factor of a wireless communications channel between the base station and the wireless device with a predetermined Ricean factor threshold for LOS detection. In addition the network node compares an RMSE between a Rayleigh PDF and samples of a received signal strength for radio signals transmitted between the base station and the wireless device with a predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection. Still further the network node compares a correlation of corresponding received signals from two antennas of the base station for a radio signal transmitted from the wireless device to a predetermined correlation threshold for LOS detection. The network node then determines whether the wireless device is within LOS of the base station based on results of the comparisons.

In another embodiment a network node in the cellular communications network determines whether a wireless device is within LOS of a base station of the cellular communications network. In order do so the network node compares i a Ricean factor of a wireless communications channel between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined Ricean factor threshold for LOS detection. In addition the network node compares i an RMSE between a Rayleigh PDF and samples of a received signal strength for radio signals transmitted between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection. Still further the network node compares a received signal strength for a radio signal transmitted between the base station and the wireless device and a predetermined received signal strength threshold for LOS detection. The network node then determines whether the wireless device is within LOS of the base station based on results of the comparisons.

In another embodiment a network node in the cellular communications network determines whether a wireless device is within LOS of a base station of the cellular communications network. In order do so the network node compares i a Ricean factor of a wireless communications channel between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined Ricean factor threshold for LOS detection. In addition the network node compares i an RMSE between a Rayleigh PDF and samples of a received signal strength for radio signals transmitted between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection. Still further the network node compares i a timing advance value for uplink transmissions from the wireless device to the base station with ii a predetermined timing advance threshold for LOS detection. The network node then determines whether the wireless device is within LOS of the base station based on results of the comparisons.

In another embodiment a network node in the cellular communications network determines whether a wireless device is within LOS of a base station of the cellular communications network. In order do so the network node compares i a Ricean factor of a wireless communications channel between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined Ricean factor threshold for LOS detection. In addition the network node compares i an RMSE between a Rayleigh PDF and samples of a received signal strength for radio signals transmitted between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection. Still further the network node compares i a physical distance between the base station and the wireless device with ii a predetermined distance threshold for LOS detection. The network node then determines whether the wireless device is within LOS of the base station based on results of the comparisons.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present disclosure and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the embodiments and illustrate the best mode of practicing the embodiments. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the disclosure and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

Systems and methods for detecting Line of Sight LOS in a cellular communications network are provided. In this regard illustrates a cellular communications network according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In this particular embodiment the cellular communications network is a 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE cellular communications network and as such some of the terminology used herein may be specific to 3GPP LTE cellular communications networks. However the present disclosure is not limited to 3GPP LTE cellular communications networks. Rather the systems and methods disclosed herein may be utilized in any type of cellular communications network.

As illustrated in the cellular communications network includes a Radio Access Network RAN which includes base stations BSs and more generally referred to herein collectively as base stations and individually as base station that serve corresponding cells and more generally referred to herein collectively as cells and individually as cell of the cellular communications network . In this example the base stations and are macro base stations e.g. eNodeBs in a 3GPP LTE cellular communications network . However one or both of the base stations and may alternatively be a micro or low power base station e.g. a femto or pico base station . The base station serves wireless devices such as a wireless device WD located in the cell . As such the base station is referred to herein as a serving base station of the wireless device . In a similar manner the base station serves wireless devices such as a wireless device located in the cell . As such the base station is referred to herein as a serving base station of the wireless device . The wireless devices and are generally referred to herein as wireless devices . The wireless devices may be mobile devices e.g. mobile terminals or stationary devices. Some examples include mobile phones mobile smart phones tablet computers notebook computers or the like. One or more of the wireless devices may alternatively be wireless sensors which may be mobile or stationary. As used herein a wireless sensor is a general term that refers to any kind of Machine Type Communication e.g. a video camera installed in an automobile a temperature sensor an alarm an activator etc. . Notably while only two base stations and and two wireless devices and are illustrated in for clarity and ease of discussion it will be readily appreciated that the cellular communications network includes numerous base stations and numerous wireless devices .

The cellular communications network also includes a core network that includes one or more Serving Gateways S GWs and one or more Mobility Management Entities MMEs . In LTE the base stations and are connected to the same or different S GWs via corresponding S1 u connections and connected to the same or different MMEs via corresponding S1 c connections. Similarly in this embodiment the base stations and may be connected to one another via an X2 connection. The S GWs are user plane nodes connecting the core network to the RAN. Among other things the S GWs serve as mobility anchors when wireless devices such as the wireless devices and move between cells as well as mobility anchors for other 3GPP technologies e.g. Global System for Mobile Communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS and High Speed Packet Access HSPA . The MMEs are control plane nodes of the core network . The responsibilities of the MMEs include connection release of bearers to wireless devices handling of idle to active transitions and handling of security keys.

As discussed below in detail the cellular communications network performs a number of operations to determine whether a wireless device e.g. the wireless device is within LOS of a base station e.g. the base station . In this regard depict a flow chart that illustrates a process performed by a network node of the cellular communications network to determine whether a wireless device is within a LOS of a base station . Preferably the network node is the base station . However the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For this example it is assumed that the network node is the base station and the wireless device is the wireless device such that the base station determines whether the wireless device is within LOS of the base station . By leveraging measurements and capabilities that are available by virtue of the role of the base station in the cellular communications network the base station is enabled to make a significantly more accurate determination of LOS or non LOS than can be made in a direct point to point wireless system e.g. a direct point to point wireless link between two devices . It should be noted that the steps illustrated in and B can be performed in any order. As such the process is not limited to the ordering of the steps illustrated in . Lastly as discussed below not all steps are necessary.

In this example the base station first obtains a Ricean factor K for a wireless communications channel between the base station and the wireless device step . More specifically Ricean fading is a stochastic model for radio propagation when one component of a multi path signal which is typically a LOS signal is a dominant component of the multi path signal. In contrast Rayleigh fading is a specialized model for stochastic fading when there is no dominant component i.e. when there is no LOS signal . A Ricean fading channel can be described by two parameters namely the Ricean factor K and a total power . The Ricean factor K is defined as a ratio of a signal power in a dominant component of a multi path signal over a scattered power i.e. a local mean of signal power in all other components of the multi path signal . The total power is the total power for both the dominant component and all other components i.e. the scattered components of the multi path signal.

In one embodiment the wireless communications channel is an uplink channel from the wireless device to the base station and the base station obtains the Ricean factor K by determining the Ricean factor K for the uplink channel using any suitable technique. In another embodiment the wireless communications channel is a downlink channel from the base station to the wireless device where the wireless device determines the Ricean factor K and sends the Ricean factor K to the base station . Alternatively the wireless device determines the signal power in the dominant component and the signal powers in the scattered components or alternatively total power of the scattered components and sends this information to the base station . The base station can then compute the Ricean factor K based on the information from the wireless device .

Next the base station determines whether the Ricean factor K for the wireless communications channel is greater than or equal to a predetermined Ricean factor K threshold for LOS detection step . In general a large Ricean factor K is an indicator that it is likely that the wireless device is within LOS of the base station . Conversely a small Ricean factor K is an indicator that it is unlikely that the wireless device is within LOS of the base station . The predetermined Ricean factor K threshold is set such that if the Ricean factor K is greater than the predetermined Ricean factor K threshold then it is more likely than not that there is a LOS path between the base station and the wireless device . Further the Ricean factor K threshold may be fine tuned to provide a desired confidence level e.g. 50 60 70 80 or 90 . Note that as the confidence level increases the number of false positives decreases but the number of false negatives increases i.e. the number of incorrect LOS detections decreases but the number of incorrect non LOS detections increases . Thus the selection of the Ricean factor K threshold can vary depending on the particular implementation. As one example the Ricean factor K threshold is set to 10.

If the Ricean factor K for the wireless communications channel is not greater than or equal to the predetermined Ricean factor K threshold then the process proceeds to step as discussed below. However if the Ricean factor K is greater than or equal to the predetermined Ricean factor K threshold then the base station obtains a Reference Signal Received Power RSRP value for the base station step . In LTE the RSRP value is a measurement made by the wireless device for a received power of a reference signal transmitted by the base station . The wireless device reports the measured RSRP value to the base station using conventional reporting techniques. Note however that step is not limited to the RSRP value for the base station . Any value that is indicative of a radio distance between the base station and the wireless device may be used. For example a Received Strength of Signal Indicator RSSI measured at the base station for a transmission from the wireless device or a RSSI measured at the wireless device for a transmission from the base station may alternatively be used.

Before proceeding it should be noted that the Ricean factor K and thus steps and may not be used in some scenarios or embodiments. For example if variations in the wireless communications channel over time are small then the Ricean factor K may not be valid. The variations in the wireless communications channel over time are small if for example the wireless device is a stationary device or is a mobile device that is for the moment stationary. In this case the Ricean factor K may be determined to be large without there being a LOS path between the base station and the wireless device . As such steps and may not be performed or may be determined by the base station to be invalid. In one particular embodiment the base station detects or otherwise obtains information that is indicative of a mobility of the wireless device . If the wireless device has low or no mobility then the base station either skips steps and or invalidates the result of step and or step such that the procedure proceeds to step .

Next the base station compares the RSRP value of the base station RSRP to a predetermined RSRP threshold for LOS detection step . The RSRP threshold for LOS detection is set such that if the RSRP value of the base station is greater than or equal to the predetermined RSRP threshold for LOS detection then it is likely that the wireless device is within LOS of the base station . In one embodiment the predetermined RSRP threshold for LOS detection is associated with a path loss PL of a link from the base station to the wireless device . An estimation of the PL can be made by considering a transmission power level of the base station . More specifically for LTE the base station knows the transmission power level for Cell specific Reference Symbols CRS transmitted by the base station and can utilize this information to estimate the PL between the base station and the wireless device upon consideration of an RSRP measurement report from the wireless device . For example the PL can be defined as PL TxPower AntennaGain RSRP where TxPoweris the transmit power level for the CRS transmitted by the base station AntennaGainis an antenna gain of the base station RSRPis the RSRP measurement reported by the wireless device for the base station and is a correction value. The RSRP threshold for LOS detection may then be set according to a predetermined PL value below which a LOS path is likely to exist. In one embodiment the predetermined PL value is such that a PL that is less than the predetermined PL value is indicative that it is more likely than not that the is a LOS path between the base station and the wireless device . Further the PL value may be fine tuned to provide a desired confidence level e.g. 50 60 70 80 or 90 . Note that as the confidence level increases the number of false positives decreases but the number of false negatives increases i.e. the number of incorrect LOS detections decreases but the number of incorrect non LOS detections increases . Thus the selection of the PL value can vary depending on the particular implementation.

As an example of setting the predetermined RSRP threshold for LOS detection based on the PL consider a scenario where it is known to a network operator of the cellular communications network or a system designer that any PL less than 60 decibels dB corresponds to a LOS path. Then if for example TxPoweris equal to 23 decibel milliwatts dBm for a low power base station AntennaGainis equal to 12 dB and 8 is equal to 0 the predetermined RSRP threshold value can be set to 25 dBm. As a result if RSRPis greater than or equal to 25 dBm it is a good indication that a LOS path exists between the base station and the wireless device . Otherwise it is a good indication that a LOS path does not exist between the base station and the wireless device .

If RSRPis not greater than or equal to the predetermined RSRP threshold for LOS detection the process proceeds to step . However if RSRPis greater than or equal to the predetermined RSRP threshold for LOS detection then the base station obtains a Timing Advance TA value for uplink transmissions from the wireless device to the base station step . For LTE the TA value is a value that is specific to the wireless device and more specifically is a timing offset for the uplink transmissions from the wireless device that provides proper time alignment when the uplink transmissions are received by the base station . The TA value is determined by the base station and signaled to the wireless device . The base station then compares the TA value for the wireless device to a predetermined TA threshold for LOS detection step . The predetermined TA threshold for LOS detection is such that a TA value that is less than or equal to the predetermined TA threshold is an indication that it is likely that there is a LOS path between the base station and the wireless device . Further the predetermined TA threshold may be fine tuned to provide a desired confidence level e.g. 50 60 70 80 or 90 . Note that as the confidence level increases the number of false positives decreases but the number of false negatives increases i.e. the number of incorrect LOS detections decreases but the number of incorrect non LOS detections increases . Thus the selection of the predetermined TA threshold can vary depending on the particular implementation. As an example the predetermined TA threshold can be 700 microseconds which corresponds to 21 meters.

If the TA value for the wireless device is not less than or equal to the predetermined TA threshold for LOS detection the process proceeds to step . However if the TA value for the wireless device is less than or equal to the predetermined TA threshold for LOS detection the base station then obtains a distance between the base station and the wireless device step . The distance between the base station and the wireless device can be obtained using any desired technique. In one embodiment in LTE positioning information for the wireless device is provided to the base station in the 3GPP Technical Specification TS 36.331 Information Element IE Location Info. If the confidence in the IE Location Info is greater than a predetermined threshold then the location of the wireless device which can be expressed in geographic coordinates can be used to determine the distance between the base station and the wireless device . The base station then compares the distance between the base station and the wireless device to a predetermined distance threshold for LOS detection step . The predetermined distance threshold is such that a distance that is less than or equal to the predetermined distance threshold is an indicator that it is likely that there is a LOS path between the base station and the wireless device . Further the predetermined distance threshold may be fine tuned to provide a desired confidence level e.g. 50 60 70 80 or 90 . Note that as the confidence level increases the number of false positives decreases but the number of false negatives increases i.e. the number of incorrect LOS detections decreases but the number of incorrect non LOS detections increases . Thus the selection of the predetermined distance threshold can vary depending on the particular implementation.

If the distance is not less than or equal to the predetermined distance threshold the process proceeds to step . However if the distance is less than or equal to the predetermined distance threshold the base station obtains a Root Mean Squared Error RMSE between a closest Rayleigh Probability Density Function PDF from a set of Rayleigh PDFs having different maximum likelihood values and RSRP samples obtained for a link between the base station and the wireless device step . More specifically a mathematical representation of a Rayleigh PDF is 

The base station then compares the RMSE between the closest Rayleigh PDF and the RSRP samples obtained in step to a predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection step . The predetermined RMSE threshold for LOS detection is set such that an RMSE value that is less than the predetermined RMSE threshold is an indicator that it is likely that there is a LOS path between the base station and the wireless device . Further the predetermined RMSE threshold may be fine tuned to provide a desired confidence level e.g. 50 60 70 80 or 90 . Note that as the confidence level increases the number of false positives decreases but the number of false negatives increases i.e. the number of incorrect LOS detections decreases but the number of incorrect non LOS detections increases . Thus the selection of the RMSE threshold can vary depending on the particular implementation.

If the RMSE obtained in step is greater than or equal to the predetermined RMSE threshold the process proceeds to step . Otherwise the base station obtains a correlation or more specifically a cross correlation between corresponding received signals from two antennas of the base station for a radio signal transmitted by the wireless device step . In this particular embodiment the base station is equipped with at least two antennas. The two antennas used for step are orthogonal to one another e.g. 45 and the corresponding received signals obtained from the two antennas are measured within the same narrow bandwidth W. In one embodiment envelopes Yand Y of the corresponding received signals from the two antennas are used to compute the correlation between the corresponding received signals. Preferably measurement of the envelopes Yand Y is calibrated in such as way that each of the envelopes Yand Y has a zero mean.

The base station then compares the correlation obtained in step to a predetermined cross correlation XCOR threshold for LOS detection step . The predetermined cross correlation threshold is set such that a correlation value that is less than the predetermined cross correlation threshold is an indication that it is likely that a LOS path exists between the base station and the wireless device . Further the predetermined cross correlation threshold may be fine tuned to provide a desired confidence level e.g. 50 60 70 80 or 90 . Note that as the confidence level increases the number of false positives decreases but the number of false negatives increases i.e. the number of incorrect LOS detections decreases but the number of incorrect non LOS detections increases . Thus the selection of the predetermined cross correlation threshold can vary depending on the particular implementation.

If the predetermined cross correlation threshold is greater than or equal to the correlation obtained in step the base station determines that a LOS path exists between the base station and the wireless device step . Note however that this is not an absolute determination that the wireless device is in fact within LOS of the base station . Rather if the process reaches step the base station has determined that it is very likely that a LOS path exists between the base station and the wireless device . In other words if the process reaches step the base station has determined with a requisite degree of certainty but not necessarily an absolute degree of certainty that the wireless device is within LOS of the base station . Conversely if any of the decisions in steps or is negative then the base station determines that the wireless device is not within LOS of the base station step . Again reaching step is not an absolute determination that there is not a LOS path between the wireless device and the base station . There may be scenarios where a LOS path exists but the base station was not able to determine that the LOS path exists with the requisite degree of certainty i.e. one of the thresholds in steps or was not satisfied .

As mentioned above the ordering of the steps of is not critical. The steps can be re arranged in any suitable manner. Further not all of the steps are necessary. In particular any combination of steps and can be used. In one embodiment any two or more of steps and are used to make a LOS determination e.g. steps and steps . In another embodiment any three or more of steps and are used to make a LOS determination e.g. steps steps and steps . In another embodiment any four or more of steps and are used to make a LOS determination e.g. steps steps steps and steps . In another embodiment any five or more of steps and are used to make a LOS determination e.g. steps steps steps steps and steps . In yet another embodiment all of the steps and are used to make a LOS determination.

The LOS determination made using the process of can be used in any desired manner. For example LOS determination may be used by the cellular communications network to provide a desired feature e.g. positioning of the wireless device using Time of Arrival TOA and or Direction of Arrival DOA technique s . In addition or alternatively the LOS determination may be a service or Application Programming Interface API provided to a third party network operator.

The processing subsystem generally implements any remaining portion of Layer 1 as well as functions for higher layers in the wireless communications protocol e.g. Layer 2 data link layer Layer 3 network layer etc. . In particular embodiments the processing subsystem may comprise for example one or several general purpose or special purpose microprocessors or other microcontrollers programmed with suitable software and or firmware to carry out some or all of the functionality of the wireless device described herein. In addition or alternatively the processing subsystem may comprise various digital hardware blocks e.g. one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs one or more off the shelf digital and analog hardware components or a combination thereof configured to carry out some or all of the functionality of the wireless device described herein. Additionally in particular embodiments the above described functionality of the wireless device may be implemented in whole or in part by the processing subsystem executing software or other instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a magnetic storage device an optical storage device or any other suitable type of data storage components. Of course the detailed operation for each of the functional protocol layers and thus the one or more radio subsystems and the processing subsystem will vary depending on both the particular implementation as well as the standard or standards supported by the wireless device .

The baseband processing unit includes one or more network interfaces a processing subsystem and a radio unit interface . The network interface s provide network connectivity to other base stations e.g. an X2 interface and network connectivity to a corresponding S GW and MME e.g. S1 interfaces . The processing subsystem generally implements any remaining portion of Layer 1 not implemented in the radio unit as well as functions for higher layers in the wireless communications protocol e.g. Layer 2 data link layer Layer 3 network layer etc. . In particular embodiments the processing subsystem may comprise for example one or several general purpose or special purpose microprocessors or other microcontrollers programmed with suitable software and or firmware to carry out some or all of the functionality of the base station described herein. In addition or alternatively the processing subsystem may comprise various digital hardware blocks e.g. one or more ASICs one or more off the shelf digital and analog hardware components or a combination thereof configured to carry out some or all of the functionality of the base station described herein. Additionally in particular embodiments the above described functionality of the base station may be implemented in whole or in part by the processing subsystem executing software or other instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as RAM ROM a magnetic storage device an optical storage device or any other suitable type of data storage components. Lastly the base station includes the radio unit interface . The radio unit interface provides an interface between the baseband processing unit and the radio unit . It should be noted that of course the detailed operation of the network interface s the processing subsystem and the radio unit interface may vary depending on both the particular implementation as well as the standard or standards supported by the base station .

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

