---

title: Restricted content publishing with search engine registry
abstract: A processor-implemented method is provided. The method may include providing a content registry with at least one application program interface (API) to manage a plurality of entries stored in the content registry. The method may also include providing access to the plurality of entries by a pre-authorized search engine to the content registry in response to a search requested by an authorized requester.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578006&OS=09578006&RS=09578006
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09578006
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150321
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of computers and more particularly to search engines.

Search engines SEs such as Google Google and all Google based trademarks and logos are trademarks of Google and or its affiliates or Yahoo Yahoo and all Yahoo based trademarks and logos are trademarks of Yahoo Inc. and or its affiliates typically use several techniques to crawl or index web pages. Such techniques basically follow links on pages to other pages. Then the pages are sorted by content and other factors and this information is indexed. Algorithms and ranking is then used to deliver the best results for search queries. Some SEs such as Google also enable content owners to use Rich snippets e.g. microdata microformats RDFa and Data Highlighter which are the few lines of text that appear under every search result and are designed to give users a sense for what is on the web page and why it s relevant to their query.

According to one embodiment a processor implemented provided. The method may include providing a content registry with at least one application program interface API to manage a plurality of entries stored in the content registry. The method may also include providing access to the plurality of entries by a pre authorized search engine to the content registry in response to a search requested by an authorized requester.

According to another embodiment a computer system is provided. The computer system may include one or more processors one or more computer readable memories one or more computer readable tangible storage devices and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories whereby the computer system is capable of performing a method. The method may include providing a content registry with at least one application program interface API to manage a plurality of entries stored in the content registry. The method may also include providing access to the plurality of entries by a pre authorized search engine to the content registry in response to a search requested by an authorized requester.

According to yet another embodiment a computer program product is provided. The computer program product may include one or more computer readable storage devices and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or me tangible storage devices the program instructions executable by a processor. The computer program product may include program instructions to provide a content registry with at least one application program interface API to manage a plurality of entries stored in the content registry. The computer program product may also include program instructions to provide access to the plurality of entries by a pre authorized search engine to the content registry in response to a search requested by an authorized requester.

Detailed embodiments of the claimed structures and methods are disclosed herein however it can be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely illustrative of the claimed structures and methods that may be embodied in various forms. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. Rather these exemplary embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of this invention to those skilled in the art. In the description details of well known features and techniques may be omitted to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the presented embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to the field of computers and more particularly to search engines. The following described exemplary embodiments provide a system method and program product to among other things publish restricted content i.e. a content that requires a pre authorization to access it with search engine registry. Therefore the present embodiment has the capacity to improve the technical field of search engines by discovering weblinks where the source of the links is inaccessible to search engines SEs . More specifically the present embodiment may enable the content being searched to be visible to the public domain or at targeted requesters e.g. users so the SE is enabled to quickly list these links as part of the search results returned to the requester.

As previously described Search engines SEs typically use several techniques to crawl or index web pages. Such techniques basically follow links on pages to other pages. Then the pages are sorted by content and other factors and this information is indexed. Algorithms and ranking is then used to deliver the best results for search queries. Some SEs also enable content owners to use Rich snippets which are the few lines of text that appear under every search result and are designed to give users a sense for what is on the web page and why it s relevant to their query.

Today content owners have to expose all relevant links through their public site in order for it to be discovered and indexed by a SE. However several use cases exist where content owners may want to expose web links to the public domain or at targeted users as part of the search results when certain queries or tags are used. For example military operations or strategic research initiatives may want to expose links to documents that can be searched and downloaded by partner organizations but not host the content in the public domain. Additionally there are commercial examples where premium or paid members would want to search for content specifically targeted at their level of membership without having to login to the site in order to manually locate it. Currently there are no mechanisms to access or include in search engines any restricted i.e. requiring pre authorization to access links. In some scenarios organization like IEEE ACM etc. may create public web pages with just abstracts or short descriptions or articles whereas the full article will be restricted. In these cases additional web pages need to be maintained for each of the articles in their internal websites or databases which may require more resources and be cumbersome to maintain.

As such it may be advantageous among other things to provide restricted content publishing with search engine registry whereby the restricted content may be restricted or unrestricted and requires pre authorization for a user to access the content. The present embodiment may provide a way of discovering web links which can include links to any type of data restricted content unrestricted content content which may reside behind a corporate firewall content that requires pre authorization to access etc. where the source of the links is completely inaccessible to search engines SE . The presence of the content in the form of web links being searched can be visible to the public domain or at targeted users so the method enables the SE to quickly list these links as part of the search results returned to the user. Benefits of the present embodiment may include the ability to discover these links quickly avoiding the need to spend a considerable amount of time searching or viewing pages manually. Additionally content owners may expose links to a SE without having to include it on their public sites. For example premium or paid members may be able to locate content through a SE without content owners having to provide access or rich snippets to the SE.

According to at least one implementation the present embodiment may provide a links registry i.e. a content registry which is accessible to content owners for contributing links relating to their domain and SEs to consume the information and return such information as part of search queries. Additionally the content owners may be able to update the registry using an application program interface API . The registry update may include the links and their relevant metadata using for example an XML JSON post. Then the SEs may subscribe to the links registry to receive new content when it is updated in order for the information to be utilized in the SEs indexing or caching solutions without having to crawl the web pages as a result of the content possibly being restricted and access not existing for the SE. As such when a search query is executed and relevant information exists in the registry based on tags keywords or metadata etc. the SE may return the relevant information as part of the result set allowing for quick discovery of the links.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The following described exemplary embodiments provide a system method and program product to enable restricted content publishing with search engine registry.

According to at least one implementation the present embodiment may allow a user to use a search engine such as Google to access restricted information i.e. restricted or unrestricted information that requires pre authorization for a user to access it within a private domain such as a corporate domain after identifying the user as having appropriate permissions to access the restricted information. For example an internal corporate article or presentation may be made available in both slide share i.e. on the public domain and on a corporate domain such as IBM s w3 internal corporate domain . However the corporate domain version may contain additional restricted information. As such the present embodiment may allow an authorized user of the restricted information to search for the content using an external search engine such as Google and using the links registry or metadata may identify the user searching for the content as an authorized user within the corporate domain and therefore expose the restricted links within the corporate domain in the search results possibly in a separate section for user consumption.

Additionally a corporation such as IBM or Apple may share restricted content behind a firewall with business partners that have authorized access to the restricted content. For example Apple may allow the restricted content to be searchable through a public search engine such as Google . As such using the links registry or metadata Google may identify the user as an Apple employee searching for the content and as such expose the restricted content in the search results for consumption by the user authorized user. Furthermore only the link and associated metadata may be a short description are exposed. Therefore the full content may still have restricted access. As such by providing the link in the registry the present embodiment is publishing the presence of a document or page however access to it is still restricted. For example with respect to an Association for Computing Machinery ACM journal article the link to the article may be exposed to conventional search engines however the access to article is limited to ACM members or other paid subscribers.

Furthermore some journal articles such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE or the Association for Computing Machinery ACM are available only to their members or paid subscribers. Currently such journal articles share the title ISBN abstract etc. in public websites for search engines to discover. However rather than having to share such information they may be able to provide trusted link information to Google for example without maintaining public abstract pages. Also based on the same concept the present embodiment may allow airlines or retailers to provide special offers to exclusive club members such as Platinum or Gold Club members.

Referring to an exemplary networked computer environment in accordance with one embodiment is depicted. The networked computer environment may include a computer with a processor and a data storage device that is enabled to run a software program and a Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A. The networked computer environment may also include a server that is enabled to run a Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program B that may interact with a database and a communication network . The networked computer environment may include a plurality of computer and servers only one of which is shown. The communication network may include various types of communication networks such as a wide area network WAN local area network LAN a telecommunication network a wireless network a public switched network and or a satellite network. It should be appreciated that provides only an illustration of one implementation and does not imply any limitations with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made based on design and implementation requirements.

The client computer may communicate with the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program B running on server computer via the communications network . The communications network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables. As will be discussed with reference to server computer may include internal components and external components respectively and client computer may include internal components and external components respectively. Client computer may be for example a mobile device a telephone a personal digital assistant a netbook a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer or any type of computing devices capable of running a program accessing a network and accessing a database . According to various implementations of the present embodiment the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B may interact with a database that may be embedded in various storage devices such as but not limited to a mobile device a networked server or a cloud storage service.

As previously described the client computer may access the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program B running on server computer via the communications network . For example a user using a client computer and a search engine such as Google may be allowed to access restricted information within a corporate domain after being identified as having appropriate permissions to access the restricted information. For example as previously described an internal corporate article presentation may be made available in both slide share i.e. on the public domain and on a corporate domain. However the corporate domain version may contain additional restricted information. As such the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B may allow an authorized user of the restricted information to search for the content using an external search engine such as Google and using the links registry or metadata may identify the user searching for the content as an authorized user within the corporate domain and therefore expose the restricted links within the corporate domain in the search results to the user. According to the present embodiment only the link and metadata or short description may be exposed through the registry enough for the SEs to index tag for searching . The Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry method is explained in more detail below with respect to .

Referring now to an exemplary illustration of the components associated with the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B in accordance with one embodiment is depicted. The Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B may include an Agreement . The Agreement is established between content providers such as IBM and search providers such as Google or Yahoo to ensure the content is from a trusted source. As such the content owners may use an application program interface API i.e. a plug in to facilitate integration of new features into existing applications to post new content in a different format to a Links Registry . According to at least one implementation the Links Registry registry may accept incoming requests perform relevant validations spam prevention etc. and store the content in a database . The Links Registry can be hosted by the SE or any other 3rd party provider. Additionally the Links Registry will notify or push new content to subscribing SEs when content has been posted.

Referring now to an operational flowchart illustrating the steps carried out by a program for restricted content publishing with search engine registry according to at least one embodiment is depicted. As previously described the present embodiment may allow an authorized user of restricted or unrestricted information to search for the content using an external search engine. Then using the Links Registry or metadata the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B may identify the user searching for the content as an authorized user within the corporate domain and therefore expose the restricted links within the corporate domain in the search results to the user.

Therefore with respect to at an agreement is established between content providers. For example an agreement may be established between a content provider such as IBM and search engines such as Google or Yahoo to ensure the content is from a trusted source. According to at least one implementation such an agreement may be a monetized service.

Next at content owners will use an API to post a new content format to a registry which includes the links and relevant metadata. As such content owners may use an API to post the content in a format such as Extensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON format to the Links Registry . The content format includes the links and relevant metadata associated with the content. XML is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format which is both human readable and machine readable. JSON is an open standard format that uses human readable text to transmit data objects consisting of attribute value pairs. It is used primarily to transmit data between a server and web application as an alternative to XML.

Then at the Links Registry will accept incoming requests perform relevant validations spam prevention etc. and store the content in a database . According to at least one implementation the Links Registry can be hosted by the SE or any other 3rd party provider.

Next at the Links Registry will notify or push the new content to subscribing SEs when the content has been posted. Then at the SEs will accept the new incoming changes into their indexing or caching solutions. As such the SEs will not have to crawl pages since access now exists to the restricted content. Optionally the contents of the registry may be fully open to the commercial SEs so that they can use this information for their internal indexing. As such the present embodiment does not have to push or receive notification by the registry to SEs. The SEs can include the registry as part of their crawl search match.

Next at the SEs will return these web links and relevant content provided for search queries to targeted users based on the links metadata.

1. The domain it should be associated with when it should be published and if there is an expiration date for the entry.

2. Tags and Description can be used by the SE for index caching purposes as well as all the other fields.

3. URL is the link needed to be injected into the search results which could be restricted links to content behind a corporate firewall premium site etc.

4. Netrange would be the targeted users domain for which the links would be exposed in search results.

5. Results element can be used to optionally inject any other information with the link into the search results e.g. branding etc.

It may be appreciated that provides only an illustration of one implementation and does not imply any limitations with regard to how different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made based on design and implementation requirements. For example content owners may optionally provide short description tags or other relevant information to be used in the search and displaying as part of search results.

According to at least one implementation the present embodiment may provide a way to register restricted content for search engine reporting which includes providing a content registry i.e. a links registry with interfaces such as an application programming interface API to create read update delete i.e. CRUD or change entries in the content registry whereby the entries include links and metadata for the restricted content. As previously explained the present embodiment may provide access to the entries by a pre authorized search engine SE to the content registry and may further validate entries input to the registry before storing the entries and return the entries to the pre authorized search engine based on matching criteria selected from a group consisting of tags keywords and metadata.

The method may further include providing an interface for automatic notification of changes to the entries to the pre authorized search engine to facilitate re indexing or caching of the entries by the pre authorized search engine using the latest content from the registry. The entries may be stored in the registry in an interchange format for example XML JSON . The pre authorized search engine may be determined by an agreement i.e. contract between the restricted content providers and the search engine. Furthermore the agreement may have rules for data exposure based on user criteria. Therefore the restricted content and web links may be offered as part of the search results only to target search engine users specified by the agreement. As such the targeted search engine users are identified through mechanisms selected from a group consisting of single sign on tokens e.g. using openid or SAML access control tokens e.g. IEEE authentication token or partner authentication token OAuth tokens e.g. Google OAuth tokens and source network address e.g. IBM intranet users may present source IP addresses for known public gateways belonging to IBM labs and specified in the agreement . The authorized user may be identified by the search engine SE through the use of a decentralized authentication and authorization protocols between the search engine SE and the restricted content provider acting on the links and metadata associated with the restricted content and according to terms and conditions included in the agreement between the restricted content provider and the search engine SE .

Furthermore some advantages of the present embodiment may include restricted links and or links to content that may exist behind a corporate firewall to be made searchable through a SE allowing for quick discovery content owners may expose links to a SE without having to include these links on public sites in order for the links to be discovered through existing crawling indexing algorithms or not having to provide additional public web pages by content owners optionally content owners may provide short description tags or other relevant information to be used in the search and displaying as part of search results and content owners may make these links visible through the SE for targeted users only e.g. employees or business partners .

The present embodiment is focused on restricted content and allowing pre authorized public search engines to utilize only the metadata associated with the content which is stored in the registry along with restricted URLs pointing to the actual content. Furthermore the present embodiment enables the commercial search engines to search and report web pages which may be restricted to a subset of and audience such as employees of a specific company. As such the existence and source location of the pages and documents may be reported to authorized users of such information however the access to the actual pages and documents themselves may not be provided. More specifically the public search engine may not have access to the whole content but only to metadata associated with the content for indexing and tagging purposes. As such the actual content may never be tagged or indexed. The public search engine is used to expose only restricted links to the actual content as part of search results. Additionally the restricted URLs and metadata in the search result are exposed only to targeted users identified and access may be controlled using different mechanisms such as single sign on tokens e.g. using openedID or SAML access control tokens e.g. IEEE authentication token or partner authentication tokens OAuth tokens e.g. Google OAuth tokens and source network addresses e.g. IBM Intranet users will present source IP addresses for known public gateways belonging to IBM labs and specified in the agreement . Furthermore the present embodiment may target the public search engine and notify the pre authorized public search engine when results are changed or contributed to the registry by content owners.

Referring now to an exemplary illustration of an overview of the method steps described in according to at least one embodiment is depicted. A user using a client computer and a search engine such as Google may be allowed to access restricted information within a corporate domain after being identified as having appropriate permissions to access the restricted information. As such with respect to content owners may use an API to post a new content format such as XML to a registry which includes the links and relevant metadata. As such content owners may use an API to post the content in a format such as Extensible Markup Language XML format to the Links Registry . As previously described the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B may prevent a user from accessing the restricted content information or allow an authorized user of the restricted information to search for the content using an external search engine such as Google and using the links registry and metadata may identify and validate the user searching for the content as an authorized user within the corporate domain and therefore expose the restricted links within the corporate domain in the search results to the user. As such the publisher may publish the restricted content with search engine registry in the search results to the authorized user. Therefore according to the present embodiment the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B may register links to websites and as such allow the contents of restricted information to be searchable and accessible by normal search engines to authorized users.

Data processing system is representative of any electronic device capable of executing machine readable program instructions. Data processing system may be representative of a smart phone a computer system PDA or other electronic devices. Examples of computing systems environments and or configurations that may represented by data processing system include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

User client computer and network server may include respective sets of internal components and external components illustrated in . Each of the sets of internal components include one or more processors one or more computer readable RAMs and one or more computer readable ROMs on one or more buses and one or more operating systems and one or more computer readable tangible storage devices . The one or more operating systems and the Software Program and the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A in client computer and the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program B in network server are stored on one or more of the respective computer readable tangible storage devices for execution by one or more of the respective processors via one or more of the respective RAMs which typically include cache memory . In the embodiment illustrated in each of the computer readable tangible storage devices is a magnetic disk storage device of an internal hard drive. Alternatively each of the computer readable tangible storage devices is a semiconductor storage device such as ROM EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable tangible storage device that can store a computer program and digital information.

Each set of internal components also includes a R W drive or interface to read from and write to one or more portable computer readable tangible storage devices such as a CD ROM DVD memory stick magnetic tape magnetic disk optical disk or semiconductor storage device. A software program such as the Software Program and the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A B can be stored on one or more of the respective portable computer readable tangible storage devices read via the respective R W drive or interface and loaded into the respective hard drive .

Each set of internal components also includes network adapters or interfaces such as a TCP IP adapter cards wireless Wi Fi interface cards or 3G or 4G wireless interface cards or other wired or wireless communication links. The Software Program and the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A in client computer and the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program B in network server can be downloaded to client computer and network server from an external computer via a network for example the Internet a local area network or other wide area network and respective network adapters or interfaces . From the network adapters or interfaces the Software Program and the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program A in client computer and the Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program B in network server are loaded into the respective hard drive . The network may comprise copper wires optical fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers.

Each of the sets of external components can include a computer display monitor a keyboard and a computer mouse . External components can also include touch screens virtual keyboards touch pads pointing devices and other human interface devices. Each of the sets of internal components also includes device drivers to interface to computer display monitor keyboard and computer mouse . The device drivers R W drive or interface and network adapter or interface comprise hardware and software stored in storage device and or ROM .

It is understood in advance that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based e mail . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

Referring now to illustrative cloud computing environment is depicted. As shown cloud computing environment comprises one or more cloud computing nodes with which local computing devices used by cloud consumers such as for example personal digital assistant PDA or cellular telephone A desktop computer B laptop computer C and or automobile computer system N may communicate. Nodes may communicate with one another. They may be grouped not shown physically or virtually in one or more networks such as Private Community Public or Hybrid clouds as described hereinabove or a combination thereof. This allows cloud computing environment to offer infrastructure platforms and or software as services for which a cloud consumer does not need to maintain resources on a local computing device. It is understood that the types of computing devices A N shown in are intended to be illustrative only and that computing nodes and cloud computing environment can communicate with any type of computerized device over any type of network and or network addressable connection e.g. using a web browser .

Referring now to a set of functional abstraction layers provided by cloud computing environment is shown. It should be understood in advance that the components layers and functions shown in are intended to be illustrative only and embodiments of the invention are not limited thereto. As depicted the following layers and corresponding functions are provided 

Hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers storage devices networks and networking components. In some embodiments software components include network application server software.

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

In one example management layer may provide the functions described below. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and Pricing provide cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. User portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provide pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA. A Restricted Content Publishing with Search Engine Registry Program may allow an authorized user of the restricted information to search for the content using an external search engine and using the links registry or metadata may identify the user searching for the content as an authorized user within the corporate domain and therefore expose the restricted links within the corporate domain in the search results to the user.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing and transaction processing.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

