---

title: Method of achieving ultra-wideband true-time-delay beam steering for active electronically scanned arrays
abstract: The various embodiments presented herein relate to beam steering an array antenna by modifying intermediate frequency (IF) waveforms prior to conversion to RF signals. For each channel, a direct digital synthesis (DDS) component can be utilized to generate a waveform or modify amplitude, timing and phase of a waveform relative to another waveform, whereby the generation/modification can be performed prior to the IF input port of a mixer on each channel. A local oscillator (LO) signal can be utilized to commonly drive each of the mixers. After conversion at the RF output port of each of the mixers, each RF signal can be transmitted by a respective antenna element in the antenna array. Initiation of transmission of each RF signal can be performed simultaneously at each antenna. The process can be reversed during receive whereby timing, amplitude, and phase of the received can be modified digitally post ADC conversion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479232&OS=09479232&RS=09479232
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09479232
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150813
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The concept of an electronically steered array ESA has been in existence for many decades. ESAs find application in synthetic aperture radar SAR search and tracking radars and other radars as well as communication systems. However the lack of practical compact low loss broadband high resolution non modulo phase shifters PS and true time delay TTD components or devices at radio frequencies RF continue to limit the capabilities of existing ESAs. Designs can be compromised by limited bandwidth reduced efficiency constrained angular coverage and severe beam deformation while scanning. These difficulties ultimately result in complex sensor structures that can be costly to develop build calibrate and maintain.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various embodiments are presented herein relating to beam steering an array antenna by modifying an intermediate frequency IF signal s or waveform s prior to conversion to RF signal s . Accordingly digital components e.g. having low cost can be utilized to achieve array antenna beam steering whereby the beam steering can be achieved with high bandwidth. The antenna array comprises a plurality of antenna elements each of which is energized by way of a respective channel. Accordingly the antenna array includes multiple channels. Further the antenna array comprises mixers respectively positioned on the channels wherein the mixers are generally configured to convert IF signals to RF signals and vice versa.

In an embodiment an arbitrary waveform generator AWG can be utilized to generate a plurality of IF signals. The AWG can utilize direct digital synthesis DDS during generation of each of the IF signals in the plurality of IF signals. Accordingly DDS can facilitate generation of a first IF signal having a different configuration to a second IF signal wherein the different configurations can include at least one of amplitude timing and or phase of the first IF being different to the amplitude magnitude the timing and or the phase of the second IF waveform. During generation of IF signals at the AWG the amplitude timing and phase can be considered to be components of the generated waveform s whereby the components are configured in accordance with one or more parameters defined in the DDS. The AWG can be located prior to at least one mixer wherein the at least one mixer converts e.g. frequency converts the first IF waveform and the second IF waveform to respectively a first RF signal and a second RF signal.

In another embodiment signal transmission and signal waveform shape can be modified on an IF portion of a channel e.g. at the IF input port of a mixer and prior to conversion to an RF signal. For each channel in the array antenna a DDS component or an AWG can modify synthesize an amplitude timing and or phase of an IF waveform relative to another IF waveform and accordingly the resulting RF waveforms . Each DDS component can include a time component e.g. a TTD component an amplitude component e.g. a programmable attenuator or an variable gain amplifier and a phase component e.g. a PS or a constant phase shift CPS component which can respectively modify the amplitude timing or the phase of an IF waveform.

By generating IF signals with a particular amplitude phase or timing or by modifying an amplitude a phase or a timing of IF signals rather than phase shifting or time shifting signals already in the RF domain the array antenna can be configured to perform beam steering on both transmit and receive utilizing inexpensive componentry. Furthermore amplitude modifications at IF may be used to compensate for distortions introduced by IF and RF circuitry.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to beam steering an array antenna by generating and or modifying intermediate frequency IF waveforms prior to conversion to radio frequency RF signals are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

In the following description the intermediate frequency will be referenced as lower than the RF requiring up conversion to RF. However it is to be appreciated that a higher IF can be combined with down conversion to a lower RF to achieve beam steering or other application that can benefit from signal conversion in the IF and RF domain.

As previously mentioned beam steering at RF using expensive and subpar PS and or TTD components or devices can be prohibitively expensive to achieve desired bandwidth efficiency angular coverage etc. The various embodiments presented herein are directed towards achieving beam steering by performing operations at IF prior to conversion to RF for radiation. Performing PS and or TTD at IF is favorable from a component selection perspective particularly when commercial direct digital synthesis DDS components e.g. integrated circuits or chips are readily available that meet Shannon s sampling criterion whereby such DDS components can be manufactured to include TTD and PS components e.g. with arbitrary amplitude.

To aid readability the terms signal and waveform are used interchangeably herein whereby a signal or pulse can have a particular waveform and a waveform can identify a shape construct of a signal.

The signal module can generate a first signal having a first waveform on the first channel whereby the first signal is generated processed and or modified by various components included in the first channel and finally is transmitted as a first emitted signal at the antenna element . Further the signal module can generate a second signal having a second waveform on the second channel whereby the second signal is generated processed and or modified by various components included in the second channel and finally is transmitted as a second emitted signal at the antenna element . The emitted signals and and a plurality of signals generated by the other n channels not shown can combine to form a steerable beam . The first signal and the second signal can be emitted with required true time delay for ultra wide band beam steering.

The signal module includes a digital source which can generate a digital signal . The signal module can further include a processor controller hereinafter controller whereby the controller can control generation and or modification of signals at the signal module and further process signals received at the signal module .

The signal module can further include a waveform generator e.g. an arbitrary waveform generator AWG . The AWG can be utilized to receive a digital signal e.g. for each of the channels n and in accordance with one or more embodiments presented herein the AWG can convert each digital signal into a respective analog signal e.g. generate signals and both having an analog format. In an embodiment the AWG can comprise of one or more digital to analog convertors DACs .

The AWG and the controller can operate in conjunction with a DDS component . As shown the DDS component can include a time component e.g. a TTD component a phase component e.g. a PS or a constant phase shift CPS component and an amplitude component .

In an embodiment the time component the phase component and the amplitude component can be physical components e.g. the time component can be a time shifter the phase component can be a phase shifter and the amplitude component can be an attenuator. Hence a digital signal can be processed at one or more of the time component the phase component and or the amplitude component .

In another embodiment the DDS component can be a virtual component e.g. an algorithm settings instructions etc. which can be utilized to control conversion of a plurality of signals e.g. signals and from digital format e.g. digital signal to analog format. During the signal conversion at least one of the timing phase and or amplitude can be configured such that the generated analog signal e.g. signal and or signal can be generated with a desired timing phase and or amplitude as further described herein.

As further shown in system can further include a conversion module which can be utilized to convert signals having an intermediate frequency IF to a radio frequency RF and vice versa as required to enable signal transmission and reception. To enable signal conversion the conversion module can include one or more mixers e.g. mixers and . The conversion module is not necessary if the T R modules and antennas can directly operate at IF frequencies i.e. where the IF is the RF.

Hence a first portion of the circuitry of channel between the signal module and the conversion module comprises a first IF portion which connects the channel from the signal module to an IF input port of a first mixer . Further the channel includes a second IF portion which is connected to an IF input port of the second mixer . A connector can be utilized to enable connection of the IF portion of system to an RF portion of system thereby enabling a plug and play approach to incorporation of the IF portion of system to the RF portion of system .

A local oscillator is connected to the mixers and respectively by LO input port and an LO input port whereby an oscillator signal generated by the LO can be configured to modify the respective signals and in their IF form to RF form. The oscillator signal can be a carrier signal such as a sinusoidal continuous wave signal a square wave signal etc. The LO can be connected to the LO input ports and via a circuit and power divider whereby circuit can be a corporate fed circuit. While not shown in the circuit can be connected to n other mixers included in the conversion module whereby the n other mixers form part of the n channels connected to the signal module .

The channels and further include respective RF portions and which are coupled to the respective mixers and . The RF portion can be connected to an RF output port of the mixer and the RF portion can be connected to an RF output port of the mixer . The IF portions and and the RF portions and can be transmission lines having respective lengths l l land l.

The mixers and enable respective signals and having an intermediate frequency at the IF input ports and to be converted to RF frequencies for transmission as emitted signals and whereby conversion from an IF to a RF can be in accordance e.g. mixed with the oscillator signal . Transmission of the first signal in RF form on channel is via the antenna while transmission of the second signal in RF form on channel is via the antenna .

Furthermore respective transmit and receive T R modules and can be located between respective mixer and antenna pairings e.g. between mixer and antenna and between mixer and antenna .

As previously mentioned operation of the DDS component can be controlled in accordance with a controller . The controller can include a beam steering algorithm . Accordingly when the DDS component is a virtual component the controller can utilize the DDS component to configure respective values for at least one of a time delay e.g. the time component a phase e.g. the phase component and or an amplitude e.g. the amplitude component for a waveform generated on each of the channels n etc. For example during conversion of an initial digital signal to either of the signals and or in their IF format the DDS component can be virtually applied at the AWG such that each waveform has the desired time delay phase shift amplitude etc. to achieve one or more signaling parameters defined in the beam steering algorithm .

System can further include a data store . The controller can access the data store to enable storage and retrieval of one or more parameters and or values e.g. beam steering parameters characteristics of various components and circuitry forming system etc. to enable beam steering e.g. in accordance with the beam steering algorithm .

The signal module can further include an analog to digital convertor ADC to convert received analog signals to a digital format. A signal e.g. an echo signal or pulse and or can be received on any of the antennas e.g. antenna and or and subsequent to down conversion at the respective mixer e.g. mixer or and conversion from analog to digital format e.g. at the ADC the received pulse and or can undergo processing at the controller whereby the controller can operate in conjunction with the DDS component and or the beam steering algorithm . Accordingly the received signal and or can be processed in accordance with any conditions applied to the one or more signals and during generation of the signals and .

In an embodiment as previously mentioned the AWG can perform DDS using high speed multi channel DACs. Accordingly during signal transmission as shown by the dashed box the DDS can perform amplitude change phase shifting and or time delay. While on signal receive the controller after the ADC can perform the same amplitude change phase shifting and or time delay processing utilizing the DDS .

As previously mentioned the DDS component can be either a standalone component or a plurality of components and or the DDS component can be incorporated into another component. For example the DDS component can be incorporated into a digital signal processor DSP not shown . Such a DSP can be a digital to analog D A convertor not shown which can perform any required signal conversion.

Further in an embodiment the DDS component can be operated at a sub array level rather than at the antenna level of system .

The various embodiments presented herein can be directed towards any suitable frequencies and or frequency ranges. For example signal module can generate the signals and with baseband frequency bandwidth of about 3 GHz. The signals and can have an IF of about 0.4 GHz to about 3.4 GHz. Further the signals and can be up converted to RF at X band K Ku Ka etc. by varying the frequency of . The various embodiments presented herein can also be utilized with the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum e.g. frequencies from about 0 Hz up to about 790 THz.

Further RF beam shaping e.g. amplitude tapered aperture can be accomplished by amplitude tapering the IF signal e.g. signals and or prior to conversion for transmission e.g. up conversion at mixers and or after conversion for reception e.g. down conversion at mixers and . Amplitude control of the IF channels also makes possible multi channel amplitude equalization wherein amplitude equalization can be a calibration step in addition to phase and delay calibration.

To facilitate understanding of how the various embodiments presented herein can be utilized to achieve broadband TTD beam steering using DDS on a signal while having an IF waveform without utilizing any TTD components on the signal while having a RF waveform an overview of the advantages of and differences between TTD and CPS for beam steering are presented. In an aspect for CPS even if perfect phase shifters were available beam pointing error and distortion is still a function of signal bandwidth and element spacing while TTD does not suffer from such limitations.

To further elaborate the most general form of an array factor of N antenna elements arbitrarily located in space at right arrow over r e.g. nvector from the origin to the element location excited with amplitude and phase at the observing direction of circumflex over r is given by the expression Eqn. 1 where k 2 f c and circumflex over r sin cos circumflex over x sin sin cos circumflex over z in rectangular coordinates cis the speed of light in vacuum. With kright arrow over r circumflex over r kright arrow over r circumflex over r where circumflex over r sin cos circumflex over x sin sin cos circumflex over z the above sum would produce a maximum in the direction and . Hence by changing kright arrow over r circumflex over r it is possible to steer a beam to and . The main difference between TTD and CPS is the manner at which kin is generated. In the case of TTD k k 2 f cwhereas in CPS k 2 f c. Here fis typically selected to be at the band center. Thus from the foregoing Eqn. 2 except for when f f. It is possible to force the issue and make the two maximums equal to each other by changing circumflex over r circumflex over r in the CPS expression at f f. The resulting difference between circumflex over r and circumflex over r is known as beam pointing error. An estimate of this beam pointing error as a function of frequency change for an equal path feed array is given by 

From the foregoing it is evident that CPS beam pointing error is large at higher scan angles and wider signal bandwidths. Conversely the absence of beam pointing error over large signal bandwidth and direction can be utilized to validate e.g. experimentally the occurrence of TTD. Another consideration from the above equations is the inability of CPS to steer to certain circumflex over r due to phase wrapping. If

Digital waveforms are capable of synthesizing delay with a time domain resolution less than the inverse of its sampling rate i.e.

Effective delay may be made to be smaller than available from a quantized clock if the amplitude of a digital signal is taken into consideration. An exemplary N bit digital to analog convertor DAC can have a magnitude resolution of

Although the above expression implies that increasing the DAC resolution or the frequency of operation lowers the minimum representable delay it does not say anything about the signal quality distortion delay error etc. . . . due to the quantization of g. Although frequency components due to quantization can be filtered at the DAC output any quantitative quality measure of how much distortion or delay error is tolerable can be application dependent. For example a possible conclusion can be made that if a quantized version of the undelayed signal is tolerable then the corresponding quantized version of the delayed signal is too. However such a conclusion is false for purposes of beam steering if the effective delay is not produced accurately at elemental spatial locations as a result of coarse quantization.

Accordingly let g and g be the quantized versions gand g respectively. The fidelity with which g represents g a delayed version of g can possibly be found by comparing the phase differences which contain information about between their Fourier transforms G and G.

Turning to a plurality of schematic representations are presented to illustrate utilization of CPS and TTD at an IF signal portion of a radar generation system to delay a subsequently produced RF signal portion of the radar generation system. Each of the schematics in illustrate a single channel and various effects e.g. comparability or non comparability of configurations which can be engendered based upon respective phase modification s and timing modification s on particular circuit configurations . While are schematics various components illustrated in are comparable to components presented in system . Further to enhance readability the common components in configurations are numbered in . However the common components and numbering are carried across all of the configurations . As shown in configuration the common components are a waveform e.g. comparable to waveforms and transmitted in an IF form e.g. comparable to IF portions or to an IF input port of a mixer e.g. comparable to mixers whereby the IF input port is comparable to IF input ports . A LO input port of the mixer is connected to a LO e.g. comparable to LO whereby the LO input port is comparable to LO input ports . As previously mentioned the waveform can undergo conversion based upon an oscillator signal e.g. comparable to oscillator signal from the LO whereby the up converted waveform generated at the mixer can be transmitted from the mixer at a RF output port to the RF portion e.g. comparable to RF channel portions . The RF output port is comparable to the RF output ports . The waveform in RF form can be transmitted from antenna e.g. comparable to antenna elements as a signal e.g. comparable to signals which can be combined with other signals to form a steerable beam not shown but comparable to beam .

Further the CPS function P emay be brought inside of the integral in any order owing to it being a complex constant which results in the convolution identities Eqn. 8 as respectively identified in . Further if P PPby letting then M G P MP GP as identified in . Since the RF signals e.g. in the RF portion of various configurations presented in are equivalent in the frequency domain their respective time domain representations following an inverse Fourier transform are also identical. Hence it makes little difference to the connected antenna where CPS is applied to a configuration apart from any impedance mismatch variation that may arise.

The foregoing presented with regard to illustrates that if CPS is desired at each antenna element then it may be produced at IF rather than RF as shown in . As previously mentioned by performing signal modification in the IF cheap reliable and scalable digital synthesis devices can me employed.

Accordingly with reference to the application of CPS in the IF domain a determination of whether the equivalency presented in for the CPS is also true for TTD modification is undertaken in . present a plurality of schematic representations whereby the CPS components e.g. CPS components and of are replaced with ideal TTD components.

In the frequency domain P f e eis no longer a constant and hence it is possible to conclude that Eqn. 9 and accordingly the configurations and presented in cannot be considered to be equivalent. This is evident if the respective signals are examined in the time domain. Let q t m t g t then for the desired configuration illustrated in the output at the RF output port is q t m t g t . The result of matches the configuration presented in but does not match the configurations and respectively presented in . Hence in comparison with applying TTD at the RF output port of the mixer per alone is not the same as applying TTD at the IF input port of the mixer per alone or to the LO input port per of the mixer alone but rather equivalence is found in the configuration comprising the combination of the first TTD component on the IF input port and the second TTD component on the LO input port . The foregoing indicates that a solution of not utilizing RF components in a configuration cannot be achieved because TTD of a oscillator signal requires a high frequency RF component s e.g. configuration can be costly and inefficient. Furthermore equivalence can require the delay imposed by the TTD component to be indistinguishable from that imposed by the TTD component .

However the oscillator signal and oscillator signal for numerous radar systems is a single tone carrier signal at f. Time delay at a single frequency is the same as constant phase shift i.e. g t eg t . Accordingly CPS may be moved from any port e.g. any of ports of the mixer to any other port as illustrated in the configurations presented in . Hence owing to the equivalency of time delay and constant phase shift at a single frequency as shown in the CPS of the oscillator signal e.g. configuration can be moved to the IF input port of the mixer e.g. configuration as indicated by the broken line between . Accordingly a DDS component can be applied at an IF input port of a mixer e.g. any of mixers whereby the DDS component can comprise a time component e.g. any of time components and a phase component e.g. any of phase components whereby a time component can perform TTD and a phase component can perform CPS. Thus per the foregoing it is apparent that TTD on an RF portion e.g. any of RF portions or from any of RF output ports or of a channel can be achieved at the IF portion e.g. at any of IF input ports or of the channel without requiring utilization of any RF TTD or PS components.

The following illustrates that TTD sequential pulsing is not required for beam steering in accordance with the various embodiments presented herein. The majority of contemporary radar systems including SAR utilize pulsed signal transmission. The aforementioned modulation schemes can be applied to such pulsed systems. presents a schematic of four signals having waveforms being generated at four antenna elements whereby the antennas are included in an array antenna not shown . It is to be appreciated that while only four antenna elements are illustrated the various embodiments are applicable to an array antenna comprising M N antenna elements whereby M and N are positive integers greater than zero. The four waveforms represent the respective waveform at t 0 further four waveforms represent the respective waveform for t

The rising edges of the lines presented in indicates pulses being generated at each antenna element can be sequentially delayed for beam steering to occur.

The dashed line and points indicate a corresponding wave initiation in time for phase synchronization. A pulse generator capable of picosecond delay at each element to accomplish such a feat is neither practical nor necessary.

Per the various embodiments presented herein e.g. per all of the antenna elements of an antenna array can be pulsed simultaneously after DDS IF modulation e.g. by DDS component e.g. the various embodiments presented herein enable a wave generator e.g. AWG having a plurality of channels e.g. channel channel . . . channel n to output waveforms at the same time e.g. concurrently however each of the waveforms can have a different initial phase. The vertical line and points indicate the corresponding wave initiation in time t 0 for phase synchronization. It is as if the traditional pulsed waves begin at the dotted line in and were sampled by the vertical line at a later instance in time for each of the channels e.g. antenna elements . Accordingly the various embodiments presented herein enable generation of TTD by simultaneous pulsing in a manner which is more practical to implement than TTD sequential pulsing as conventionally utilized.

It is to be appreciated that while the waveforms are shown as having waveforms of a constant periodicity the waveforms can also be chirps such that the respective chirp initiation e.g. low chirp and chirp termination e.g. high chirp for each waveform can be configured such that the beam e.g. the beam formed from the respective chirps is steered as required e.g. in accordance with a beam steering algorithm e.g. beam steering algorithm .

In an embodiment multiple pulse modulated IF waveform generation e.g. waveforms and LO feed signaling e.g. oscillator signals may be synced across all of the antenna elements by equal or unequal path length transmission lines e.g. by any of the respective lengths l l land l per . In a further embodiment residual delays and amplitude errors resulting from unequal path length transmission lines can be compensated for during a calibration operation by changing the effective TTD and CPS generated by the respective DDS components e.g. by DDS component and their amplitudes at the IF input port e.g. IF input ports and or . Because time delay and phase compensation are performed in the digital domain e.g. respectively by time component and phase component the radar architecture e.g. as presented in enables larger manufacturing tolerances with regard to transmission line length etc. which further enables improvement in production scalability. Further the beam steering algorithm can be utilized to generate respective signals and to compensate for channel to channel imbalance as a function of temperature operating environment etc.

Simultaneous pulsing of TTD waveforms affects the spatial transient wave front formation process of the radiated beam e.g. beam . For example the shape of the rising edge of the detected pulse e.g. any of pulse waveforms will be different depending on the direction of observation. This is also true for the case of TTD sequential pulsing. The following is an examination of waveforms generated by both TTD simultaneous pulsing per the embodiments presented herein and also TTD sequential pulsing.

A time delay between the nelement location right arrow over r and the observer s position right arrow over r can be considered to be

The results of these expressions are provided in the respective wave front image sequences of A E and A E whereby the respective images are for different instances in space and time for a linear array comprising 7 antenna elements situated vertically along the y axis respectively at 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 as indicated by the points on the y axis. relate to wave front formation based upon F right arrow over r t e.g. simultaneous turn on per the embodiments presented herein whereby the wave front is comparable to a wavefront of beam per . relate to wave front formation based upon G right arrow over r t e.g. sequential turn on and present the differences e.g. F G between the simultaneous turn on of and the sequential turn on of . During generation of the images A E a 2 inter element spacing and TTD for 10 steering were applied. and A are for are for 3 are for 5 are for 7 and are for 9 .

As shown in versus each of the antenna elements in are configured for simultaneous turn on for transmission e.g. simultaneous turn on of respective signals as evidenced by the flat wavefront w compared with the sequential turn on e.g. sequential turn on of respective signals of the antenna elements in engendering an angled wavefront w. Accordingly it is evident from that while the wave front transients for both F right arrow over r t e.g. and G right arrow over r t e.g. waveform generations depend on the observation location e.g. angle of wversus w whereas the steady state results ssand ss e.g. what s behind the wave fronts wand w are identical after a minor delay e.g. at 3 and as indicated on . Although not shown the turn off process for both F right arrow over r t and G right arrow over r t waveform generation should be comparable. Further for SAR applications a return pulse from the ground should be gated to remove any unwanted transient effects.

The following presents results from a broadband 15.2 GHz 18.2 GHz electronic beam steering experiment. is a schematic of a radar system utilized during the experiment. The radar system comprises a transmit array antenna comprising two short differentially fed Ku band horns and spaced at 48.4 mm or 3 at 18.2 GHz. Such a large spacing was selected to illustrate the steering inability of digital emulated PS at IF beyond modulo 2 whereas digital emulated TTD has no such limitations. Differential feeding was utilized to benefit from the improved detection sensitivity of null steering.

Input match and isolation of the horns and were improved by attachment of respective RF isolators and . The isolators and in turn connect to the RF output ports and of two Ku band mixers and . The LO input ports and of the mixers and are tied together via a 3 dB power splitter and fed by a 10 dBm 15.1 GHz RF source signal from a LO . The IF input ports and of the mixers and respectively connect to separate channels and of a 12 Gs s signal module . The signal module can include an AWG which is programmed to output modified linear chirps from about 0.1 to about 3.1 GHz every 20 ms over the two synchronized channels and . The AWG can be operating in conjunction with a virtual DDS component for example the controller can utilize the beam steering algorithm in conjunction with parameters etc. stored on memory device to define respective values and or conditions for each of the time component the phase component and the amplitude component for the waveforms and .

Subsequent to mechanical and electrical alignment of the transmit array with its direct facing high gain receiver horn the array s antenna pattern was measured using a spectrum analyzer at all angles in the plane of beam steering as a function of frequency. The AWG was re programmed such that a CPS e.g. CPS of 180 is added to one of the channels e.g. either of channels or . present normalized antenna array patterns e.g. ultra wide band UWB illustrating mode switching between a mono pulse mode e.g. tracking per and an imaging mode per . As shown a null in at bore sight e.g. 0 is immediately made into a peak over the entire frequency range of the chirp as shown in .

The experimental results demonstrate successful broadband TTD steering by utilizing digital devices e.g. DDS at IF are shown in . present normalized antenna array patterns illustrating differences between CPS beam steering e.g. where 20 and TTD digital beam steering e.g. where 20 at IF. The AWG can be programmed to output either a CPS centered at 16.7 GHz or a TTD version whereby the TTD version includes a required CPS of the oscillator signal e.g. a LO carrier at 15.1 GHz of a broadband chirp over one of its channels e.g. channel or for beam steering to 20 . It is readily apparent from the slant of the line that frequency dependent steering errors on the order of 2 are evident over the entire bandwidth in the CPS patterns of . This is expected because CPS only minimizes beam pointing error nearer its center frequency of 16.7 GHz. As shown by the horizontal line in any steering errors have been significantly reduced in the TTD plus CPS patterns particularly at frequencies less than 16.7 GHz e.g. the horizontal line holds steady at the beam steering of 20 . Accordingly with minimal steering error between 15.2 18.2 GHz for a center frequency of 16.7 GHz a fractional bandwidth of 3 16.7 17.96 was achieved.

As illustrated a digital transceiver can be utilized to generate and receive respective signals across system whereby transceiver can generate signals in a manner similar to AWG . The respective channels can be considered as three separate portions an IF digital portion an IF analog portion and a RF front end portion . A first transmission circuit of the first channel CHincludes a DDS and a low pass filter . The DDS can include one or more components as previously described such as a time component e.g. a phase component e.g. and or an amplifier e.g. . In the IF analog portion of the first transmission circuit an multiplier and a band pass filter can be utilized to intermediately convert an IF signal prior to up conversion to an RF signal at the mixer . Mixer can be mixed with a oscillator signal generated by an oscillator whereby the oscillator signal can be transmitted to the mixer via a corporate fed network which includes one or more splitters .

Following conversion the signal can pass through a band pass filter and further transmitted along a first RF transmission circuit for transmission via a first antenna element ANT . The first RF transmission circuit can include an amplifier .

An echo signal can be received at the first antenna element which can be passed along the RF receiver circuit . The receiver circuit can include an amplifier whereby the echo signal can further pass through the band pass filter before being down converted at the mixer from an RF signal to an IF signal. The IF echo signal can be received on the IF receiver circuit and accordingly processed at a sweep and hold S H device and an analog to digital convertor ADC to be subsequently processed at CHof the digital transceiver .

As shown in a plurality of channels can be serviced by the digital transceiver . Components and circuitry comprising CHcan be the same as that utilized in CH with comparable components being indicated by common circuitry symbols. Hence a second IF transmission channel can include a DDS component a low pass filter a multiplier and a band pass filter . Up conversion from IF to RF can be performed at a mixer connected to the LO . The RF signal can pass through a band pass filter and be transmitted by antenna element ANT via a RF transmission circuit which can include an amplifier . Echo reception on the CHcan be via a second RF receiver circuit which can include an amplifier . Down conversion of the RF echo to IF can be via mixer . Reception of the IF echo at the digital transceiver can be via an IF receiver circuit which can include a S H device and an ADC . Low side levels can be achieved by applying amplitude tapering digitally at the IF region .

Per the various embodiments presented herein various hardware implementation workarounds can be utilized to achieve desired time and amplitude quantization on delayed signal representation and any effects associated therewith. For example rather than digitally generating the entire 3 GHz of IF bandwidth e.g. per analog frequency multipliers and filtering can be utilized to increase the bandwidth of digitally synthesized IF signal prior to up conversion.

At one or more required steering conditions for an array antenna can be determined. For example the steering conditions can be a function of a location of the array antenna and a direction to a target of interest a function of circuitry forming the antenna array e.g. length of respective transmission lines etc. The required steering conditions can be determined by a controller component whereby the controller component can utilize a beam steering algorithm to enable a plurality of signals to be transmitted such that the signals interact e.g. constructively and or destructively interfere to form the steered beam whereby individual output conditions for each antenna element can relate to a reference beam e.g. signal conditions of a second transmission signal relative to a first transmission signal as well as compensating for such effects as individual transmission line length etc.

At the respective required steering conditions can be stored in a memory device for subsequent retrieval by the controller component.

At a first waveform can be generated on a first channel of a waveform generator and also a second waveform can be generated on a second channel of the waveform generator. In an embodiment the waveform generator can be operating in conjunction with the controller component wherein the controller component utilizes a DDS component to enable generation of the first waveform and the second waveform. The DDS component can be an algorithm instructions etc. which can operate on the waveform generator such that the first waveform can be generated with a required first timing first phase and or first amplitude and the second waveform can be generated with a required second timing second phase and or second amplitude. The DDS component can operate in accordance with one or more values generated by the beam steering algorithm. For example the first waveform can be configured as a reference waveform or a base waveform and the second waveform can be configured such that a beam formed with the first waveform and the second waveform is accordingly steered. At least one of the first IF waveform or the second IF waveform can be modified in accordance with one or more outputs generated by the beam steering algorithm. The first IF waveform can have different signal form and timing compared to the second IF waveform. For example the first IF waveform can act as a reference waveform against which the second IF waveform is modified. In an example the second IF waveform can have its phase modulated such that a peak amplitude of the second IF waveform is reached 1 picosecond later than the first IF waveform reaches its peak amplitude. The first IF waveform and the second IF waveform can be generated in accordance with a required beam steering e.g. respectively having desired amplitude s phase s and or time delay s .

At the first IF waveform can be converted to form a first RF signal and the second IF waveform can be converted to form a second RF signal. The conversion of the first IF waveform can be performed at the first mixer whereby the conversion is performed in conjunction with an oscillator signal received at a first LO input port of the first mixer. The converted first RF signal can be output from the mixer on a first RF output port. The conversion of the second IF waveform can be performed at the second mixer whereby the conversion is performed in conjunction with the oscillator signal received at a second LO input port of the second mixer. The up converted second RF signal can be output from the mixer on a second RF output port. The oscillator signal received at the first LO input port of the first mixer can be a common signal to the oscillator signal received at the second LO input port of the second mixer.

At the first RF signal can be transmitted from a first antenna element located on the first channel as a first transmitted signal and the second RF signal can be transmitted as a second transmitted signal from a second antenna element located on the second channel. The first RF signal and the second RF signal combine to form a steerable beam in conjunction with n RF signals being generated from n other antenna elements included in the array antenna whereby through constructive and destructive interference an amplitude in the steerable beam is directed towards the direction of the target of interest.

At one or more required steering conditions for an array antenna can be determined. For example the steering conditions can be a function of a location of the array antenna and a direction to a target of interest a function of circuitry forming the antenna array e.g. length of respective transmission lines . The required steering conditions can be identified by a controller component whereby the controller component can utilize a beam steering algorithm to enable a plurality of signals to be transmitted such that the signals interact e.g. constructively and or destructively interfere to form the steered beam whereby individual output conditions for each antenna element can relate to a reference beam e.g. signal conditions of a second transmission signal relative to a first transmission signal as well as compensating for such effects as individual transmission line length etc.

At the respective required steering conditions can be stored in a memory device for subsequent retrieval by the controller component.

At a first waveform can be generated on a first channel of a waveform generator and also a second waveform can be generated on a second channel of the waveform generator. In an embodiment the first waveform and the second waveform can initially be generated by the wave generator with a baseband spectral magnitude whereby the first waveform and the second waveform can subsequently be modulated to respectively form a first IF waveform and a second IF waveform. In another embodiment the first waveform and the second waveform can be generated by the wave generator as a first IF waveform and a second IF waveform.

At the first IF waveform can be received at a first DDS component whereby the DDS component comprises a first TTD component and a first CPS component. The first DDS component can be located on the first channel e.g. at an IF input port of a first mixer.

At the second IF waveform can be received at a second DDS component whereby the DDS component comprises a second TTD component and a second CPS component. The second DDS component can be located on the second channel e.g. at an IF input port of a second mixer.

At at least one of the first IF waveform or the second IF waveform can be modified in accordance with one or more outputs generated by the beam steering algorithm. The first IF waveform can have different signal form and timing compared to the second IF waveform. For example the first IF waveform can act as a reference waveform against which the second IF waveform is modified. Hence the second IF waveform can have its phase modulated such that a peak amplitude of the second IF waveform is reached 1 picosecond later than the first IF waveform reaches its peak amplitude.

At the modified first IF waveform can be up converted to form a first RF signal and the modified second IF waveform can be up converted to form a second RF signal. The conversion of the first IF waveform can be performed at the first mixer whereby the conversion is performed in conjunction with an oscillator signal received at a first LO input port of the first mixer. The converted first RF signal can be output from the mixer on a first RF output port. The conversion of the second IF waveform can be performed at the second mixer whereby the conversion is performed in conjunction with the oscillator signal received at a second LO input port of the second mixer. The up converted second RF signal can be output from the mixer on a second RF output port. The oscillator signal received at the first LO input port of the first mixer can be a common signal to the oscillator signal received at the second LO input port of the second mixer.

At the first RF signal can be transmitted from a first antenna element located on the first channel as a first transmitted signal and the second RF signal can be transmitted as a second transmitted signal from a second antenna element located on the second channel. The first RF signal and the second RF signal combine to form a steerable beam in conjunction with n RF signals being generated from n other antenna elements included in the array antenna whereby through constructive and destructive interference an amplitude in the steerable beam is directed towards the direction of the target of interest.

At one or more echo pulses are received at an antenna array whereby the echo pulses are received as a function of transmitted signals being reflected off such objects features as moving targets stationary targets terrain natural features manmade features etc. The transmitted signals form part of a steered beam which as previously described the transmitted signals can be generated and or modified in conjunction with a DDS component e.g. either a physical component s or a virtual component s to enable the transmitted signals to be respectively time delayed phase shifted and or amplitude adjusted as required to form a steered beam. DDS can be applied to a transmittable signal prior to conversion from IF to RF.

At the one or more echo pulses can be frequency converted from RF to IF whereby the frequency conversion can be performed by one or more mixers.

At the one or more echo pulses can be received in analog format. Accordingly to enable processing of the one or more echo pulses the one or more echo pulses can be converted from analog format to digital format e.g. by an ADC.

At the one or more echo pulses can be processed to enable target determination etc. The one or more echo pulses can be processed in accordance with information parameters etc. utilized during the formation of the one or more echo pulses for transmission. The processing can be in accordance with knowledge of how the one or more echo pulses were generated and or modified during a DDS operation s utilized during formation of the one or more echo pulses. The processing can also be performed in conjunction with knowledge of how the transmitted signals were formed in accordance with a beam steering algorithm. In an embodiment processing of the one or more echo pulses can be performed by a processor utilizing DDS and the beam steering algorithm.

In an embodiment initiation of transmission of the first RF signal and the second RF signal can be at the same turn on time. Hence even though the second RF signal may have a different initial phase relative to an initial phase of the first RF signal the difference in phase can be considered equivalent to a timing delay required to enable the constructive and destructive interference such that the beam is steered towards the direction of interest.

As previously described the various embodiments owing to IF signals being typically lower in frequency than RF signals generation transmission reception and processing of IF signals may be implemented by mixed signal means via DACs and or DDS ordinary transmission lines ADCs and digital signal processors DSPs respectively. By placing all of the complexity and difficulty associated with beam steering in the IF subsystem at lower frequencies modern commercial off the shelf COTS digital hardware may be utilized with according reductions in system weight power size and cost e.g. as a function of Moore s law . An IF subsystem can be integrated with compatible RF antenna array frontends to accommodate any radar or communications band with essentially no change to the underlying hardware enabling achievement of component commonality among disparate systems. Hence IF subsystems e.g. the IF portion of system can be interchangeable having more IF channels wider bandwidths lower power and or smaller footprint.

Per the various embodiments herein the relocation of beam steering responsibilities from RF to IF eliminates a requirement to utilize broadband analog phase shifters APS and or true time delay TTD devices at RF for each antenna element or sub array of antenna elements. This enables RF electronics associated with a single antenna element to better fit inside the space of 2 to avoid the onset of grating lobes during scan where is the shortest free space wavelength of radiation. By configuring beam steering at IF functionality of an antenna array can be reduced to distributed amplification polarization selection element wise frequency up down conversion and IF LO feed distribution necessary for radiation and reception at RF. For low frequency applications such as weather and search radars where IF may be directly radiated analog frequency conversion may be avoided. Furthermore if single side band SSB RF suppression is desired in phase and quadrature IQ frequency conversion may be utilized in place of RF image rejection filters.

It is to be appreciated that while systems and present various configurations one or more components or devices included in a particular configuration can be included in any of the configurations and is not just limited to a configuration in which it is illustrated herein.

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be utilized to control measurement and determination of mutual coupling that exists between a plurality of antenna pairings in a phased array antenna. For example computing device can operate as a controller operating in conjunction with a beam steering algorithm . The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store operating parameters required operating parameters and on forth.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions operating parameters required operating parameters etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. The terms component and system are also intended to encompass hardware configured to cause certain functionality to be performed where such hardware can include but is not limited to including Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Application specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

