---

title: Wafer level package without sidewall cracking
abstract: A wafer level package device may include a molding compound that encapsulates a substrate, a back end of line and front end of line layer on the substrate and a passivation layer of a redistribution layer without encapsulating a metal layer on the passivation layer. The molding compound may eliminate sidewall chipping and cracking as well as reduce the need for back side lamination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09318405&OS=09318405&RS=09318405
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09318405
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150501
---
The present Application for patent claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 987 210 entitled METHOD TO CREATE FOOTPRINT MATCH WLP PACKAGES WITHOUT SIDEWALL CRACK WITH FOWLP RECONSTITUTION PROCESS filed May 1 2014 assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to wafer level packaging WLP and more specifically but not exclusively to a WLP with a partially encapsulated redistribution layer RDL .

Wafer level packaging allows packaging an integrated circuit while it remains in the wafer. It is a chip scale package technology. WLP can integrate wafer fabrication packaging test and burn in at the wafer level in order to streamline a device s manufacture. It consists of extending the wafer fabrication processes to include device interconnection. WLP attaches the top and bottom outer layers of packaging and the solder bumps to integrated circuits while still in the wafer and then dicing the wafer.

Different types of WLP exists such as fan in WLP and fan out WLP. Fan in WLP uses layout package connections within the chip area and when the scale and count of on chip bond pads does not match with standard packaging scales a RDL of metal interconnect can be used to fan in to ball grid or pillar grid arrays BGA PGA within the chip area. However when the needed number of connections cannot be made within the chip area mold compound materials can be used to provide physical area adjacent to an original chip such that package connections can be arranged on a fan out area when seen from above.

To reduce manufacturing costs further a fan in WLP process for manufacturing an 8 Si wafers may use a 12 fan out WLP process. This can result in a significant cost saving up to 30 . However to build a traditionally fan out WLP requires adding a thick mold compound to the sidewalls. It s extremely difficult to reduce sidewall width and minimize form factor to match fan in wafer level package.

One of these difficulties in fan in WLP products can be sidewall chipping and cracking which can cause yield loss and lead to surface mount technology failures and reliability failures. Sidewall chipping and cracking can account for a high level of customer returns. Current semiconductor assembly and tests are unable to control chipping and cracking within ten percent of the die s width and length. Current automatic inspections can provide quality assurance measures but the capital investment and reduced throughput can be costly. Furthermore the cracking and chipping may not be eliminated using automatic inspections but merely prevented from reaching the customer.

Accordingly there is a need for systems apparatus and methods that improve upon conventional approaches including the improved methods system and apparatus provided hereby.

The following presents a simplified summary relating to one or more aspects and or examples associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein. As such the following summary should not be considered an extensive overview relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples nor should the following summary be regarded to identify key or critical elements relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples or to delineate the scope associated with any particular aspect and or example. Accordingly the following summary has the sole purpose to present certain concepts relating to one or more aspects and or examples relating to the apparatus and methods disclosed herein in a simplified form to precede the detailed description presented below.

Some examples of the disclosure are directed to systems apparatus and methods for a wafer level package device that includes a substrate having a non active substrate side extending between a first substrate sidewall and a second substrate sidewall and an active substrate side extending between a third substrate sidewall and a fourth substrate sidewall a redistribution layer coupled to the active substrate side the redistribution layer having a metal layer and a dielectric layer and a molding compound encapsulating the substrate and the metal layer being free of the molding compound.

Some examples of the disclosure are directed to systems apparatus and methods for a wafer level package device that includes a substrate having a non active substrate side extending between a first substrate sidewall and a second substrate sidewall and an active substrate side extending between a third substrate sidewall and a fourth substrate sidewall a redistribution layer coupled to the active substrate side the redistribution layer having a metal layer and a dielectric layer and a molding compound having a first molding compound sidewall and a second molding compound sidewall the molding compound encapsulating the substrate while leaving the metal layer exposed such that a width between the first molding compound sidewall and the first substrate sidewall is greater than a width between the first molding compound sidewall and the third substrate sidewall.

Some examples of the disclosure are directed to systems apparatus and methods for a wafer level package device may include a substrate having a non active substrate side extending between a first substrate sidewall and a second substrate sidewall and an active substrate side extending between a third substrate sidewall and a fourth substrate sidewall a redistribution layer coupled to the active substrate side the redistribution layer having a dielectric layer in contact with the active substrate side a polymer layer on the dielectric layer and a metal layer in the polymer layer a molding compound having a first molding compound sidewall even with the third substrate sidewall a second molding compound sidewall even with the fourth substrate sidewall a third molding compound sidewall extending horizontally beyond the first molding compound sidewall and a fourth molding compound sidewall extending horizontally beyond the second molding compound sidewall and the molding compound encapsulating the substrate such that a width between the third molding compound sidewall and the first substrate sidewall is greater than a width between the first molding compound sidewall and the first substrate sidewall.

Other features and advantages associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the accompanying drawings and detailed description.

In accordance with common practice the features depicted by the drawings may not be drawn to scale. Accordingly the dimensions of the depicted features may be arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. In accordance with common practice some of the drawings are simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all components of a particular apparatus or method. Further like reference numerals denote like features throughout the specification and figures.

The disclosure is directed to create a wafer level package using fan out wafer level packaging process. Some advantages may include the ability to create a small factor fan in WLP without sidewall cracking that can occur when using a standard fan in WLP process. This smaller form factor may provide cost savings. Additional mold compound MC wrapped around die corners may eliminate mold compound peeling from a thin MC sidewall. It may also eliminate Z2 saw chipping and cracking by using a robust MC in the bottom half of the silicon so that no sidewall is required. Thinner package height may be achieved while maintaining structure robustness. This may reduce the need for back side lamination BSL for thin MC sidewall and no MC sidewall versions. There may be improved yield and reliability with these various implementations. The improved quality can reduce customer returns. Flexibility of fan in and fan out WLP lines may also be used to create form factor match packages which can mitigate WLP capacity constraint.

As shown in the WLP device structure may include a solder ball on the polymer layer opposite the dielectric layer that partially extends into the polymer layer to contact the metal layer and a molding compound . The molding compound encapsulates the substrate the back end of line and front end of line layer and the passivation layer . This allows the molding process to occur before completion of the metal inset the dielectric layer the polymer layer the metal layer or the solder ball which will reduce manufacturing cost while still allowing the multi layered redistribution layer to redistribute power from the solder ball to the back end of line and front end of line layer . Substrate may be composed of silicon or other suitable material and mold compound may extend well beyond the substrate to form a fan out area as needed. The back end of line and front end of line layer are where the integrated circuit component may be located. For example a front end of line FEOL process is the first portion of IC fabrication where the individual devices transistors capacitors resistors etc. are patterned in the semiconductor. FEOL generally covers everything up to but not including the deposition of metal interconnect layers. The back end of line BEOL process is the second portion of IC fabrication where the individual devices transistors capacitors resistors etc. get interconnected with wiring on the wafer. BEOL generally begins when the first layer of metal is deposited on the wafer. BEOL includes contacts insulating layers dielectrics metal levels and bonding sites for chip to package connections. After the last FEOL step there is a wafer with isolated transistors without any wires . In the BEOL part of fabrication stage contacts pads interconnect wires vias and dielectric structures are formed.

In this description certain terminology is used to describe certain features. The term mobile device can describe and is not limited to a music player a video player an entertainment unit a navigation device a communications device a mobile device a mobile phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant a fixed location terminal a tablet computer a computer a wearable device a laptop computer a server a device in an automotive vehicle and or other types of portable electronic devices typically carried by a person and or having communication capabilities e.g. wireless cellular infrared short range radio etc. . Further the terms user equipment UE mobile terminal mobile device and wireless device can be interchangeable.

Wafer level package devices according to the examples above e.g. the WLP device structure the WLP device structure the WLP device structure the WLP device structure and the WLP device structure can be used for a number of different applications such as in the circuit components of a mobile device. Referring to as an example a system may include an UE here a wireless device which has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from a radio access network RAN that may ultimately come from a core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. Platform can include transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in memory of the wireless device. Memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Platform also can include local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . Local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. Internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

The wireless communication between UE and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the aspects of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Likewise the term aspects of the disclosure does not require that all aspects of the disclosure include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Any reference herein to an element using a designation such as first second and so forth does not limit the quantity and or order of those elements. Rather these designations are used as a convenient method of distinguishing between two or more elements and or instances of an element. Thus a reference to first and second elements does not mean that only two elements can be employed or that the first element must necessarily precede the second element. Also unless stated otherwise a set of elements can comprise one or more elements. In addition terminology of the form at least one of A B or C used in the description or the claims can be interpreted as A or B or C or any combination of these elements. 

Nothing stated or illustrated depicted in this application is intended to dedicate any component step feature benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether the component step feature benefit advantage or the equivalent is recited in the claims.

