---

title: System and method for managing a communication session
abstract: In one embodiment, a method of managing a live electronic communication session comprises receiving parameters from a user. The parameters are associated with at least one communication preference of the user. The method further comprises determining a first contact profile from a plurality of contact profiles using the one or more parameters. The first contact profile comprises a first set of information and a second set of information. The method further comprises permitting the user to access the first set of information and preventing the user from accessing the second set of information. The method connects the user and a first contact associated with the first contact profile to a live electronic communication session. The method further comprises determining a duration of the live electronic communication session, and determining, using the duration of the live electronic communication session, to permit the user to access the second set of information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09525777&OS=09525777&RS=09525777
owner: Leadpoint, Inc.
number: 09525777
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150316
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 954 535 entitled SYSTEM FOR COMPUTERIZED TELEPHONIC COMMUNICATION filed Mar. 17 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosure relates generally to communication and more specifically to systems and methods for computerized telephonic communication.

In a typical marketplace a large number of potential customers clients or other consumers are available for buying or otherwise acquiring vendible goods and or services. The pool of potential consumers may include all persons as well as public and private corporations partnerships governmental organizations and other such entities.

Vendible goods and or services can span an equally large domain and may include anything from impulse purchase of items such as small candy bars to more methodically and rationally thought out acquisitions of financial instruments e.g. home mortgages loan refinancing packages and or of high priced transportation vehicles e.g. cars trucks airplanes etc. and or of other properties or services.

A vendor of highly sophisticated goods and or services e.g. luxury automobiles with attached loan or leasing packages will not want to waste time energy and money reaching out to a person who is merely looking to acquire a candy bar. Instead the high end vendor would like to acquire a short list pointing to motivated prospective consumers whose financial and geographic attributes indicate they may be ready to soon close on a deal for the vendor s goods and or services. This way the vendor may direct his or her marketing energies to the best prospects rather than wasting those energies on a more diffuse target audience.

A leads providing industry has grown around the developing of short lists identifying optimally ready and prospective consumers for various goods and or services. The industry may be vertically divided into a plurality of interlinked layers including a a leads generation layer b a leads selling layer c a leads buying layer and d a leads exploitation or converting layer where for the last layer purchased leads are followed through on in hopes of converting the leads into consummated vendor consumer transactions i.e. purchases of vendor offered goods and or services .

A variety of methods have been developed for originating leads and for conveying those leads up the vertically integrated leads market from the originators to the ultimate purchasers and users of those leads namely the vendors or vendor representatives who wish to convert a large percentage of bought leads into actual consumer vendor transactions.

In one embodiment a method of managing a live electronic communication session comprises receiving parameters from a user. The parameters are associated with at least one communication preference of the user. The method further comprises determining a first contact profile from a plurality of contact profiles using the one or more parameters. The first contact profile comprises a first set of information and a second set of information. The method further comprises permitting the user to access the first set of information and preventing the user from accessing the second set of information. The method connects the user and a first contact associated with the first contact profile to a live electronic communication session. The method further comprises determining a duration of the live electronic communication session and determining using the duration of the live electronic communication session to permit the user to access the second set of information.

In particular embodiments determining to permit the user to access the second set of information comprises analyzing a characterization of the live electronic communication session received from the user.

In particular embodiments the method comprises determining the accuracy of the characterization of the communication session received from the user at least by analyzing a recording of at least a portion of the communication session. In particular embodiments determining the accuracy of the characterization of the communication session received from the user comprises automatically performing a semantic analysis of the recording of at least a portion of the communication session.

In one embodiment a system comprises one or more computer readable storage media storing a plurality of contact profiles and a first interface configured to receive one or more parameters from a user. The one or more parameters are associated with at least one preference of the user. The system also comprises at least one processor configured to determine a first contact profile from a plurality of contact profiles using the one or more parameters. The first contact profile comprises a first set of information and a second set of information. The interface is further configured to permit the user to access the first set of information and prevent the user from accessing the second set of information. The processor is further configured to connect the user and a first contact associated with the first contact profile to a live electronic communication session. The processor also determines a duration of the live electronic communication session and determines using the duration of the live electronic communication session to permit the user to access the second set of information.

In particular embodiments the system is configured to analyze a characterization of the live electronic communication session received from the user.

In particular embodiments the system is configured to determine the accuracy of the characterization of the communication session received from the user at least by analyzing a recording of at least a portion of the communication session. In particular embodiments the system is configured to automatically perform a semantic analysis of the recording of at least a portion of the communication session.

In particular embodiments a non transitory computer readable storage medium has computer readable program code configured to perform the operations of the method and or system described above.

The present disclosure provides in various embodiments solutions to technological problems that exist in the leads buying and selling marketplace. For example a lead buyer may not be satisfied with the value of purchased leads for other reasons as well. A lead buyer will not be satisfied if the lead s contact information for the potential consumer is incorrect or the potential consumer is unreachable for some other reason. A lead buyer will not be satisfied if contact is made with the potential consumer and the potential consumer is not interested in the goods or services offered by the lead buyer or the potential consumer does not meet certain criteria specified by the lead. A lead buyer may not feel satisfied with a purchased lead for any reason that prevents the lead buyer from successfully converting a lead into a consumer vendor transaction. Unsatisfied buyers may result in unsold inventory in a lead exchange marketplace.

Advantages present in various embodiments of the present disclosure allow a lead buyer to pay only for leads where the lead buyer holds a conversation with a potential consumer. Although not all conversations may lead to a consumer vendor transaction a lead buyer will feel more satisfied with a lead that puts the lead buyer in contact with a potential customer who meets the lead buyer s criteria. Paying for conversations instead of paying for a list of leads reduces risk because it avoids initial costs associated with attempts to contact potential consumers. Paying for a conversation increases efficiency because lead buyers are only charged if they make contact with a potential consumer.

The present disclosure provides in various embodiments solutions to technological problems that exist in the leads buying and selling marketplace. For example two lead buyers such as a large mortgage company and an individual loan officer may both purchase the same bulk data package of leads. The large mortgage company may have access to expensive auto dialing technology enabling it to contact a majority of the shared leads before the individual loan officer is able to contact the same leads manually. In this scenario the individual loan officer may not feel like he received fair value from the purchased leads. Small buyers may become frustrated by the volume of call attempts required to connect with shared leads. Embodiments of the present disclosure s system can address issues by facilitating more effective communication between such small buyers and the shared leads.

Other objects features and advantages of the present disclosure are apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art in view of the following detailed description of the disclosure and the accompanying drawings.

Example embodiments and their advantages can be understood by referring to of the drawings and the following description.

Although system is described as an example system for establishing communications between lead buyers and potential consumers system may generally establish a live electronic communication session between any user and any contact .

Unless otherwise indicated the term lead will be understood herein to refer to any mechanism by which a potential consumer that may have current or future prospects for purchasing or otherwise consuming one or more goods and or services is connected directly or indirectly to a vendor of such goods and or services or vice versa such that the vendor can appeal directly or indirectly to the prospective consumer to purchase or otherwise consume one or more goods and or services offered by the vendor. Leads may take many forms including a a live or on hold telephone connection to a potentially interested consumer b an ongoing Internet chat or other directed communication with a potentially interested consumer and c one or more data sets also referred to as contact profiles that identify one or more potentially interested consumers and characteristics associated with their potential consumerism.

Lead buyer represents a vendor of goods and or services. As an example a vendor may want to acquire a short list pointing to motivated potential consumers whose financial and geographic attributes indicate they may be ready to transact for the vendor s goods and or services. This way the vendor may direct his or her marketing energies to the best prospects rather than wasting those energies on an uninterested audience. A list of potential customers may also be known as a list of leads and a vendor who purchases a list of leads may be known as a lead buyer. In particular embodiments vendible goods may include physical goods e.g. cars trucks boats planes etc. commodities e.g. fruits grains livestock etc. financial instruments e.g. investments mortgages auto loans etc. and any suitable product for sale. Although one lead buyer is illustrated any number of lead buyers may participate in system .

Potential consumer represents a potential consumer of goods and or services offered for sale by lead buyer . Although one potential consumer is illustrated any number of potential consumers may participate in system . In particular embodiments potential consumers may comprise a pool of reachable consumers for a given good or service. Pool of potential customers may be segmented in any of a variety of ways depending on product price range and or other context setting parameters. The context setting parameters may include a an associated class or range or mixture of products involved e.g. automobile loan refinance service perishable fruits etc. b a price range of the product bundle c a longevity of the lead meaning how long the prospect for closing a deal remains viable e.g. must be closed within a day a week 3 months a year etc. d a geographic location of the prospective consumer e a financial well being of the prospective consumer e.g. credit rating f motivation of the prospective consumer to soon close a deal and so forth.

Lead exchange system represents any components operable to facilitate connections between lead buyers and potential consumers . Lead exchange system may maintain a collection of active leads. Lead buyer may purchase a lead through lead exchange system and lead exchange system may initiate a phone call between lead buyer and potential consumer . Lead exchange system may maintain billing records related to purchased leads and may maintain statistics related to activity of lead buyers and potential consumers . Lead buyer may interact with lead exchange system through a user interface which may be referred to as a lead store.

Lead originators devise their own methods for generating leads capturing leads and introducing leads into lead exchange system . Examples of origination methods may include a cold calling potential consumers via a manual or automated call centers b offering prizes via mass transmitted emails c operating prospect attracting web sites such as portals etc. that attract the desired kinds of persons to the site such that the visitor can then be directed to a site where the visitor is encouraged to fill out a lead generating form and d culling through long lists provided by other lead generators so as to generate shorter and more reliable lists. Lead exchange system may obtain leads from multiple sources.

Lead exchange system may include any suitable type of computer system such as a network server any remote server a mainframe a host computer a workstation a web space server a personal computer a file server a virtual device or any other device that may electronically process information. The operations of lead exchange system may be performed by any combination of one or more components at one or more locations. Lead exchange system comprises memory processor and network interface .

In particular embodiments lead exchange system may integrate with one or more other systems that are used to track interactions with potential customers such as a customer relationship management CRM tool. Lead exchange system may present an application programming interface to allow interaction with such systems. Lead exchange system may automatically share notes or feedback information with such systems. Lead exchange system may compare leads with existing contacts in such systems used by lead buyer to ensure lead buyer is not paying for duplicate leads or about to contact a previously contacted lead. Lead exchange system may compare leads by comparing name address phone number email address or any other suitable attribute associated with a lead.

In particular embodiments lead exchange system may provide advantages because lead exchange system controls communication between lead buyer and potential consumer . Lead exchange system may ensure that competing lead buyers do not simultaneously access the same leads or contact the same potential consumers . Lead exchange system may ensure that potential consumers are not contacted excessively by lead buyers . Lead exchange system may ensure that both large institutional lead buyers and solo lead buyers both receive value from their purchased leads.

In some embodiments network interface represents any components operable to receive information from network transmit information through network perform processing of information communicate to other devices or any combination of the preceding and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software. For example network interface may receive information from user devices database and lead exchange system . As another example network interface may communicate information for display to a lead buyer potential consumer or operator on user devices . Network interface represents any port or connection real or virtual including any suitable hardware and or software including protocol conversion and data processing capabilities to communicate through a LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a WAN or other communication system that allows lead exchange system to exchange information with network and other components of system .

In some embodiments processor communicatively couples to network interface and memory and controls the operation and administration of lead exchange system by processing information received from network interface and memory . For example processor executes operating system to manage resources and provide services for one or more applications and or computer programs. Processor may be a programmable logic device a microcontroller a microprocessor any processing device or any combination of the preceding. Processor may represent more than one processor.

In some embodiments memory stores either permanently or temporarily data operational software or other information for processor using computer readable media. Memory includes any suitable combination of volatile or non volatile local or remote devices suitable for storing information. For example memory may include RAM ROM magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other information storage device or a combination of these devices. While illustrated as including particular modules memory may include any information for use in the operation of lead exchange system .

In some embodiments memory comprises operating system lead manager and communication manager . Operating system represents any suitable set of instructions logic or code embodied in a computer readable storage medium and operable to manage resources and provide services for one or more applications and or computer programs. Operating system may include any suitable operating systems such as IBM s zSeries Operating System z 05 MS DOS PC DOS MAC OS such as MAC OS X WINDOWS UNIX OpenVMS LINUX SOLARIS ADVANCED INTERACTIVE EXECUTIVE AIX HP UX UBUNTU DEBIAN or any other appropriate operating systems including future operating systems.

In some embodiments lead manager represents any suitable set of instructions logic or code embodied in a computer readable storage medium and operable to facilitate lead trading. Lead manager may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software. Lead manager may facilitate lead trading by presenting leads to lead buyers . For example lead buyer may browse a listing of individual leads and request a conversation with a potential consumer . As another example lead manager may search for leads matching criteria specified by lead buyer . If lead manager identifies a potential consumer that matches the criteria lead manager may prompt lead buyer to contact potential consumer .

In some embodiments lead manager may perform rule checks to determine whether lead buyer is allowed to contact potential consumer . For example lead manager may verify that certain parameters e.g. income product interest geographical location credit score or other suitable parameters associated with potential consumer match criteria specified by lead buyer . Lead manager may also verify that another lead buyer has not recently contacted the same potential consumer . Lead manager may verify that a potential contact would comply with legally mandated time of day calling regulations.

Lead manager may initiate a telephone conversation via communication manager between lead buyer and potential consumer . Lead manager can charge lead buyer for the conversation in various manners. For example lead manager can charge lead buyer if the telephone conversation with potential consumer is actually established rather than the call not being answered or if the call was answered by a voicemail system.

In some embodiments communication manager represents any suitable set of instructions logic or code embodied in a computer readable storage medium and operable to facilitate communication between lead buyer and potential consumer . Communication manager may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software. In particular embodiments communication manager may include an interactive voice recognition IVR process an automated call processing unit a manual call processing unit or any suitable man machine interface. Communication manager may be operable to record communications for later analysis and review.

In particular embodiments an IVR process may allow lead buyer or potential consumer to respond with touch tone and or voice responses to predefined question sequences generated by the IVR process. Other terms for IVR may include VRU voice recognition units ISR interactive speech recognition and so forth. The units may include automated dialers as well as automated voice interface with potential consumers.

In particular embodiments communication manager may be configured to detect whether a human or an answering machine answers a call. Communication manager may perform call handling procedures such as placing calls on hold transferring calls or any other suitable call handing procedure. Communication manager may bridge connections between disparate communications networks. For example communication manager may contact potential consumer via a wired telephone network. When potential consumer answers communication manager may contact lead buyer via a call center private branch exchange. When both potential consumer and lead buyer are on the line communication manager connects both parties. Disparate communication networks such as packet based networks and the public switched telephone network may not provide the same monitoring functionality. Communication manager may provide functionality to normalize call monitoring features across multiple networks.

In particular embodiments communication manager may comprise an auto dialer feature. Communication manager may provide auto dialing features as a service to lead buyer . For example lead buyer may purchase a set of leads from lead exchange system . Communication manager may repeatedly attempt to contact the purchased leads and notify lead buyer when a potential consumer is available for a conversation. As another example lead buyer may indicate one or more parameters for desired leads and communication manager may call leads that correspond to those parameters until one is found that is ready to speak with lead buyer lead buyer may then be billed for the lead that was on the call.

In particular embodiments communication manager may mask caller identification information from one or both calling parties. Masking caller identification information is advantageous in the scenario where lead exchange system only charges lead buyer for a successful conversation. Masking caller identification information prevents either party from obtaining the other party s contact information until a successful and billable conversation is completed. Masking caller identification is one example of preventing a user from accessing particular information associated with a contact profile.

In particular embodiments communication manager may provide call feedback to lead manager . For example communication manager may provide information regarding call duration or call termination disposition to lead manager . Lead manager may use the call feedback information to make billing decisions e.g. charge for call duration greater than a certain amount of seconds or do not charge for contact with an answering machine . In particular embodiments communication manager may during or after a call solicit feedback from lead buyer regarding the call disposition. Communication manager may receive the characterization of the call e.g. wrong number wrong contact information contact not available or any other suitable characterization of the call from lead buyer and communicate that information to lead manager .

Examples of communication mechanisms that communication manager may use include traditional telephony interfaces TCP IP or similar networking protocols in general HTTP based interfaces SMTP or other email interfaces such as SMS FTP or other data transfer protocols Web Service protocols such as SOAP and so forth. While various embodiments of the present disclosure discuss setting up a phone call between lead buyer and potential customer other types of electronic communication sessions may be used aside from or in addition to telephone calls. Such electronic communication sessions include e mail text messaging video conferencing file transfers bulletin board sessions and chat sessions e.g. chat rooms or instant messaging . A live electronic communication session can be a telephone call packet based telephone call e.g. a Voice over IP call video call chat session or any of the other methods of electronic communication described herein.

In some embodiments database represents any components that may store information used by lead exchange system . For example database may store lead information contact profiles user account information transaction information billing information feedback information call recordings call transcripts and any other suitable information or combination of information. Database may include a network server any remote server a mainframe a host computer a workstation a web space server a personal computer a file server a virtual device or any other device that may store information used by lead exchange system . In particular embodiments database includes any suitable combination of volatile or non volatile local or remote devices suitable for storing information. For example database may include RAM ROM magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other information storage device or a combination of these devices. The functions of database may be performed by any combination of one or more servers or other components at one or more locations. In the embodiment where the module is a server the server may be a virtual or physical server. The server may include one or more servers at the same or remote locations. Database may provide information for view by a user. Although system illustrates database as separate from lead exchange system in particular embodiments database may be part of lead exchange system . Database may be a part of any suitable component shown in system .

In particular embodiments information about potential consumer is stored in a contact profile associated with potential consumer . Lead manager may maintain a pool of contact profiles stored in database . A contact profile may comprise first and second sets of information. The first set of information may comprise information sufficient for a user to have an introductory conversation with a contact e.g. first name product interests credit rating etc. but does not comprise data specific enough for the user to establish communication with the contact outside of system . The second set of information may comprise information for establishing communication e.g. full name phone number mailing address email address electronic identifier etc. with a contact. Lead manager is operable to facilitate a live electronic communication session between a user and a contact where the user is able to view the first set of information before the call but does not receive the second set of information until lead manager as an example obtains an indication that the live electronic communication session was successfully established.

For example prior to facilitating a live electronic communication session between user and a contact lead manager may permit user to access e.g. view on a display receive from an Internet site import to a CRM tool or address book or any other suitable method of obtaining data the first set of information. After a successful live electronic communication session between user and contact and after user agrees to be charged for the electronic communication session lead manager may permit user to access the second set of information.

In some embodiments network represents any network operable to facilitate communication between various components of system such as user devices database and lead exchange system . Network may include any interconnecting system capable of transmitting audio video signals data messages or any combination of the preceding. Network may include all or a portion of a public switched telephone network PSTN a public or private data network a LAN a MAN a WAN a local regional or global communication or computer network such as the Internet a wireline or wireless network an enterprise intranet or any other communication link including combinations thereof operable to facilitate communication between the components. Although only one network is illustrated system may comprise multiple data and telecommunication networks.

In some embodiments operator represents an administrative user of lead exchange system . Operator may load new leads into lead exchange system remove stale leads configure information associated with user accounts set prices associated with leads configure access restrictions run reports perform system backups or server maintenance or any other suitable functions associated with the operation of lead exchange system .

In particular embodiments operator may perform quality assurance operations. Operator may review and analyze recorded portions of a phone call between lead buyer and potential consumer to determine whether feedback from lead buyer regarding the conversation is accurate. For example lead buyer may indicate potential consumer was not interested and no contact information was exchanged. Operator may review a recording of the call and upon analysis of the recording may verify the parties did not exchange contact information. In particular embodiments analysis may include listening to an audio recording or reviewing a transcript. Communication manager can facilitate this by causing calls to be recorded and including information regarding the calls such as the identities of the parties the phone numbers used in the calls and the duration of the calls to operator .

In particular embodiments determining whether lead buyer should be charged for the call may be automatically performed by lead exchange system e.g. using voice analysis software . Lead exchange server may analyze the audio stream or transcribe voice to text for either real time or post call analysis. Lead exchange server may perform semantic analysis on the call based on keywords semantic inferences phone numbers addresses frequencies or any suitable indicator of call content e.g. those that identify an unanswered call a call answered by voicemail or a call that ended quickly due to dialing a wrong number .

In particular embodiments operator may run reports. Operator may run a report to help operator determine the validity of a conversation. Operator may view a list of leads needing review by lead buyer . The report may be filterable and include fields such as lead id phone number first name last name buyer name lead date of entry DOE in the lead database transfer date a link to a review screen and or other suitable fields in various embodiments. Operator may run a report to view information about calls. The report may be filterable and include fields related to a call such as start date end date buyer product purchase date call attempts disconnect attempts abandons successful transfers buyer rejects average call duration and or other suitable fields in various embodiments.

In some embodiments user device represents any components hardware and or software that may display or communicate information to a user such as lead buyer potential consumer and operator . User device may include a personal computer a workstation a laptop a wired telephone a wireless or cellular telephone an electronic notebook a personal digital assistant or any other device wireless wireline or otherwise capable of receiving processing storing and or communicating information with other components of system in order to display or communicate information to a user. User device may further allow a user to request information from other user devices lead exchange system and database . For example lead buyer may want to purchase a lead. Lead buyer may communicate such a request using user device to lead exchange system causing lead exchange system to provide such information for view by lead buyer . User device may comprise a user interface such as a display a microphone keypad or other appropriate terminal equipment usable by a user.

In particular embodiments user device may be a mobile device. Lead buyers using a mobile user device may take advantage of location based features of user device . For example lead exchange server may automatically determine what potential consumers are within a certain distance of user device .

User device may display a graphical user interface to allow a lead buyer to view lead information or communicate with potential consumer . Graphical user interface may include any graphical interface that allows the user to view the lead information request particular information communicate with database or any combination of the preceding. Graphical user interface may be accessible to a user through a web browser a mobile app or any suitable portlet in particular embodiments.

Graphical user interface may display any information provided by lead exchange system . Examples of particular embodiments are described with reference to .

As an example of operation a particular embodiment is described in relation to mortgage broker lead buyer or user and potential mortgagee potential consumer or contact . Mortgage broker may be interested in contacting potential mortgagee . Mortgage broker may search a lead store of lead exchange system for a lead.

The method begins at step where in some embodiments the lead exchange system receives parameters from a user such as lead buyer . The received parameters are associated with a communication preference of the user. For example lead buyer may prefer to contact leads based on any number of parameters such as state and zip code of potential consumer age or sales history of a lead price of a lead or any other suitable parameter. Additional examples are described with reference to below.

A communication preference may refer to any of the filters selection criteria or other methods of choosing a lead described in this disclosure. In particular embodiments a communication preference may also refer to a preferred communication medium. As a particular example lead buyer may submit a communication preference to contact leads the state of Texas that are less than three days old.

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system determines a first contact profile from a plurality of contact profiles using the parameters. For example lead exchange system may store a plurality of contact profiles associated with each of its leads. Lead exchange system may search through its plurality of contact profiles for profiles that match the parameters submitted by lead buyer such as all contact profiles for potential consumers that are in Texas and the lead is less than three days old. Additional examples are described with reference to .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system permits the user to access a first set of information. For example lead buyer may view a list of potential consumers whose contact profiles matched the given parameters but lead buyer may only be able to access e.g. view retrieve make use of etc. particular information e.g. first name general location demographics etc. about potential consumers . Additional examples are described with reference to .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system prevents the user from accessing a second set of information. For example lead buyer may not access contact information or personally identifying information from which contact information could be determined for potential consumers . Lead exchange system is operable to manage electronic communication sessions so that communication is possible without lead buyer being aware of contact information for potential consumer . Additional examples are described with reference to .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system connects the user to a live electronic communication session. For example lead exchange system may initiate a telephone call towards lead buyer .

Lead exchange system may attempt to contact one of the potential consumers whose contact profile matches the selection criteria of lead buyer . In particular embodiments lead exchange system may select the first potential consumer from a list of matching potential consumers or lead exchange system may attempt to contact potential consumers and select the first potential consumer that answers the phone. Additional examples are described with reference to .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system connects the first contact to the live electronic communication session. For example lead exchange system may connect potential consumer to the telephone call initiated with lead buyer in the previous step.

In particular embodiments lead buyer and potential consumer may communicate for a duration of time. The duration of the electronic communication session may be short if potential consumer is not home or if potential consumer is not a good lead. Lead buyer may characterize such an electronic communication session as unsuccessful. The duration of the electronic communication session may be longer if potential consumer is a good lead and lead buyer has a successful conversation with potential consumer . Additional examples are described with reference to .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system determines a duration of the live electronic communication session. In particular embodiments if the duration is below or at or below a first threshold then the electronic communication session may be determined to be unsuccessful and method continues to step .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system does not permit the user to access the second set of information. For example the electronic communication session is determined to be unsuccessful and thus lead buyer is not permitted access to contact information for potential consumer . In particular embodiments lead buyer is not charged for the unsuccessful lead.

Returning to step in particular embodiments if the duration exceeds or meets or exceeds a second threshold then the electronic communication session may be determined to be successful and method continues to step . Additional examples are described with reference to .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system permits the user to access the second set of information. For example the electronic communication session is determined to be successful and thus lead buyer is permitted access to contact information for potential consumer . Thus lead buyer may have additional contact with potential consumer in the future. Additional examples are described with reference to .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system associates a charge with the user. For example lead buyer experienced a successful electronic communication session with potential consumer and lead exchange system may charge lead buyer the advertised price for the lead. In particular embodiments even if the duration exceeds the second threshold lead buyer may characterize the electronic communication session as unsuccessful in which case lead buyer may request a refund. Additional examples are described with reference to .

Returning to step in particular embodiments if the duration is between the first threshold and the second threshold method continues to step .

At step in some embodiments the lead exchange system analyses a characterization of the live electronic communication session. For example for calls where the duration is between a first threshold and a second threshold lead exchange system may not automatically determine whether the call was successful. In particular embodiments lead buyer may submit a characterization of the call. The characterization may include feedback regarding the disposition of the call. For example if the call was answered but after a short conversation lead buyer determines the party that answered the phone is not potential consumer then lead buyer may leave feedback characterizing the call as unsuccessful. As another example if potential consumer is interested but does not have time for a conversation potential consumer may exchange contact information with lead buyer and lead buyer may leave feedback characterizing the call as successful. Additional examples are described with respect to .

At step in some embodiments lead exchange system may analyze a recording of the live electronic communication session. For example lead buyer may request a refund. In particular embodiments operator may analyze a recording of the live electronic communication session to determine whether a refund is due e.g. the parties did not exchange contact information . The recording may be an audio recording transcript or any other suitable record of the electronic communication session.

In particular embodiments lead exchange system may automatically analyze the recording of the live electronic communication session by performing semantic analysis such as keyword identification detecting semantic inferences or any of the other semantic analysis methods described herein.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the steps illustrated in . Additionally one or more steps may be performed in parallel or in any suitable order.

Mortgage broker may click on link to call potential mortgagee . In particular embodiments if potential mortgagee is not available then mortgage broker may see a message indicating potential mortgagee is not available to call. Potential mortgagee may not be available to call for reasons including a. another mortgage broker contacted potential mortgagee within a certain time period e.g. the last hour b. lead exchange server contacted potential mortgagee within a certain time period e.g. the last hour c. the property state of potential mortgagee is in a time zone where the current time is not within legal telemarketing hours e.g. 8 a.m. 9 p.m. d. the primary phone number area code of potential mortgagee is in a time zone where the current time is not within legal telemarketing hours or e. any other suitable availability rule known to lead exchange system . If potential mortgagee is available mortgage broker may see a pop up box displaying pay per conversation details.

In particular embodiments when mortgage broker clicks Start Call button of lead exchange system may initiate a call to mortgage broker . Mortgage broker may see incoming caller identification information associated with lead exchange system such as a customer service number associated with lead exchange system . Lead exchange system may begin recording the call up to a fixed duration of time e.g. 120 seconds or indefinitely. If mortgage broker does not answer after a number of rings e.g. 6 lead exchange system may terminate the call and display a call failed message. If mortgage broker answers lead exchange system may prompt mortgage broker to press a button or any suitable input to initiate a call to potential mortgagee . After mortgage broker presses the button lead exchange system may initiate a call to potential mortgagee . Mortgage broker may hear a message such as please wait while we contact the consumer. Mortgage broker may hear the phone ringing. If potential mortgagee answers lead exchange system connects mortgage broker and may display an interface displaying information associated with the call.

Mortgage broker may begin a conversation with potential mortgagee . After a determined amount of time e.g. 10 seconds lead exchange system may charge mortgage broker unless lead exchange system later determines the conversation is invalid for other reasons described below.

If potential mortgagee does not answer because the phone number is not in service or otherwise non functional lead exchange system may end the call and may remove the lead from the lead store. Lead exchange system may display an interface indicating the call did not start and may not charge mortgage broker for the transaction.

If a voicemail answers instead of potential mortgagee mortgage broker may hang up and lead exchange system may not charge mortgage broker for the transaction. However if mortgage broker leaves a message with his contact information lead exchange system may charge mortgage broker for the transaction.

In particular embodiments when mortgage broker clicks Start Call button of lead exchange system may initiate a call to potential mortgage . Potential mortgagee may see incoming caller identification information associated with lead exchange system such as a customer service number associated with lead exchange system . Lead exchange system may begin recording the call up to a fixed duration of time e.g. 120 seconds or indefinitely. If potential mortgagee does not answer after a number of rings lead exchange system may terminate the call and display a call failed message. If potential mortgagee answers lead exchange system may play a message such as please hold while we connect you with a mortgage specialist this call may be recorded for quality assurance purposes and then play hold music. Lead exchange system may then initiate a call to mortgage broker . Mortgage broker may see incoming caller identification information associated with lead exchange system such as a customer service number associated with lead exchange system . If mortgage broker answers lead exchange system may connect potential mortgagee . If mortgage broker does not answer lead exchange system may play a message such as no agents are available at this time and then terminate the call.

An example conversation guarantee may include the following rules. If the call between lead buyer and potential consumer is less than 10 seconds lead exchange system may not charge lead buyer . If the call between lead buyer and potential consumer is more than 2 minutes lead exchange system may charge lead buyer and lead exchange system may not review or refund the purchase. If the call is more than 10 seconds but less than 2 minutes lead exchange system may review the call depending on the feedback entered by lead buyer . A conversation may be considered valid if at any point lead buyer or potential consumer exchange contact information or potential consumer confirms interest in discussing any kind of product offered by lead buyer . Lead exchange system or a call center verification team associated with lead exchange system may review a conversation within 2 business days. If a conversation is not valid lead exchange system may refund the purchase amount.

Examples of helpful tips displayed on user interface screens may include the following tips. Lead buyer may set up a voice delivery before trying pay per conversation. Lead buyer should confirm interest and get the phone number of potential consumer early on. Lead buyer may use a land line rather than a mobile phone to reduce the possibility of a dropped call. If lead buyer reaches a voicemail lead buyer has the option whether or not to leave a voicemail. Lead buyer may want to leave a voicemail since they know they have confirmed the consumer s contact information is valid. If lead buyer does not want to risk connecting with potential consumer and thus being charged for the conversation lead buyer should hang up immediately. Multiple lead buyers may use different lead store filters to avoid contacting the same list of potential consumers .

As another example of operation a particular embodiment is described in relation to mortgage broker lead buyer and potential mortgagee potential consumer . Mortgage broker may be interested in contacting potential mortgagees . Mortgage broker may create a filter to identify particular leads that interest mortgage broker . For example mortgage broker may only be interested in leads for residents of Texas with a property value greater than five hundred thousand dollars and a loan to value ratio of 80 .

Lead exchange system may identify a lead that matches a filter criteria created by mortgage broker . Because multiple mortgage brokers may all be competing for the same leads lead exchange system may be optimized to efficiently process search requests. Lead exchange system may display an interface indicating a match is found to mortgage broker to indicate that lead exchange system has located a matching lead and display price for connecting with the lead.

Mortgage broker may click Place Call Now button of to initiate a connection with potential mortgagee . Clicking Place Call Now button may display an interface prompting mortgage broker to enter a phone number.

When mortgage broker clicks Next button of lead exchange system may initiate a connection to potential mortgagee . Lead exchange system may initiate a connection to potential mortgagee in a manner similar to that described above with reference to .

In particular embodiments lead exchange server may provide distributed call center functionality using a network of individual mortgage brokers . For example a collection of individual mortgage brokers may all request leads using the same filter. As lead exchange server identifies potential consumers matching the filter lead exchange server may connect potential consumer with the next available mortgage broker of the network using that same filter.

In particular embodiments mortgage broker may rate a lead based on the conversation mortgage broker had with potential mortgagee . After the conversation is over lead exchange system may prompt mortgage broker with an interface to rate the lead.

In particular embodiments mortgage broker may not be satisfied with the conversation and may submit a refund request. Lead exchange system may display an interface for mortgage broker to submit a refund request.

In particular embodiments users of lead exchange system may request reports. Operator may run a report to help operator determine the validity of a conversation. Operator may view a list of leads needing review. The report may be filterable and include fields such as lead id phone number first name last name buyer name lead date of entry DOE in the lead database transfer date a link to a review screen and or other suitable fields in various embodiments. Operator may run a report to view information about calls. The report may be filterable and include fields related to a call such as start date end date buyer product purchase date call attempts disconnect attempts abandons successful transfers buyer rejects average call duration and or other suitable fields in various embodiments. Lead Buyer may request reports on available leads lead contact history billing history or any other suitable report.

Lead exchange system may categorize leads into lead bands to distinguish good leads from questionable leads. As an example lead exchange system may categorize leads as premium certified value connected only or unbanded. Lead exchange system may charge lead buyers more for good leads or take a higher commission from lead submitters who submit questionable leads. Lead exchange system may categorize leads into any suitable number of bands based on any suitable criteria.

In particular embodiments lead exchange system may categorize leads by calculating a consumer intent score for a lead. Lead exchange system may calculate a consumer intent score by combining values assigned to buyer feedback number of returns quality verification feedback voice transfers or any other suitable value. As an example the feedback and call disposition tables above associate a score with each value. Consumer intent calculations may include weighted coefficients assigned to particular attributes by a user such as operator . Consumer intent calculations may include dynamic values such as various feedback or call statistics collected over time. Consumer intent scores may change as more feedback is collected. In particular embodiments operator may overwrite a calculated consumer intent score.

While the discussion above regarding have used a mortgage broker and a potential mortgagee as an example the techniques discussed therein are not limited to this example. The technological features related to computerized establishment of communication sessions such as telephone calls discussed above are readily applicable in other contexts. Such contexts can include various forms of business interactions where consumers identify datasets and create relationships such as matching systems for personal relationships e.g. dating or business relationships e.g. employee recruiting .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present disclosure may be illustrated and described herein in any of a number of patentable classes or context including any new and useful process machine manufacture or composition of matter or any new and useful improvement thereof. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented entirely hardware entirely software including firmware resident software micro code etc. or combining software and hardware implementation that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module component or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an appropriate optical fiber with a repeater a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JAVA SCALA SMALLTALK EIFFEL JADE EMERALD C C VB.NET PYTHON or the like conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language VISUAL BASIC FORTRAN 2003 Perl COBOL 2002 PHP ABAP dynamic programming languages such as PYTHON RUBY and Groovy or other programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider or in a cloud computing environment or offered as a service such as a Software as a Service SaaS .

Aspects of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatuses systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable instruction execution apparatus create a mechanism for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that when executed can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions when stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which when executed cause a computer to implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable instruction execution apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatuses or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various aspects of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of any means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any disclosed structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variation will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The aspects of the disclosure herein were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

