---

title: Method to improve aerodynamic glide of a ram air canopy
abstract: A ram air canopy includes a top skin, a bottom skin, a plurality of ribs between the top skin and the bottom skin forming a plurality of cells. A leading edge of a cell includes an opening to allow air to enter the cell. A glide vent is disposed in the top skin to allow air the exit the cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573691&OS=09573691&RS=09573691
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09573691
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150716
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of parachutes and in particular to a design for a canopy of a ram air parachute.

Parachutes have evolved over the years into highly sophisticated systems and include features that improve the safety maneuverability and overall reliability of the parachutes. A ram air canopy or gliding ram air parachute is a form of a self inflating ram air canopy or airfoil also know as a parafoil. Such ram air canopies improve the control of speed and direction of parachute type devices.

The U.S. Army Defense Department makes use of airdrop for troop resupply and humanitarian aid. Aircraft vulnerability requires the deployment of gliding ram air parachutes to offset the aircraft at a safe distance and altitude. Once these ram air canopies are open they are able to glide to the targeted drop zone using guidance systems that are GPS controlled. Improving the glide ratio of the ram air canopy provides aircraft commanders with more options and improves aircraft survivability. Increased glide can also offer larger payload capabilities.

The ram air canopy parachute generally referred to as a ram air canopy is formed of two layers of material often referred to as a top skin and a bottom skin. The skins or layers may have different shapes but are commonly rectangular or elliptical. The top and bottom layers are connected by airfoil shaped vertically oriented fabric ribs to form cells. The cells fill with high pressure air from vents that face forward on the leading edge of the airfoil. The fabric is shaped and the parachute lines trimmed under load such that the ballooning fabric inflates into an airfoil shape

The canopy of the ram air parachute functions as a wing to provide lift and forward motion. Guide lines operated by a parachutist allows for the deformation of the canopy to control direction and speed. Ram air parachutes have a high degree of maneuverability.

Two dimensional numerical simulations of the airflow around ram air canopies such as the ram air canopy of have shown a region of separated flow on the lower lip of the open leading edge . This region of separated flow also referred to as a region of low pressure or flow separation bubble is caused by the lower lip or edge of the ram air wing . This flow separation bubble is generally due to the inability of the flow of air to negotiate the sharp turn at the lower lip or edge . Low pressure areas such as region attached to the lower surface or lip of an airfoil are generally detrimental to the glide ratio.

As is shown in the example of a vortex forms on an inside of the canopy wing just inside the open leading edge . This vortex directs the flow of air toward the lower lip during steady flight and the opening in the leading edge makes the ram air wing less aerodynamic. In the illustration of looking into the open leading edges of the ram air canopy the area of separation is shown along the span of the lower canopy surface . This flow separation region is quite large when viewed three dimensionally and produces a large reduction in glide ratio. It would be advantageous to reduce or eliminate the leading edge separation bubble in order to improve the aerodynamic efficiency of a ram air canopy.

There have been various attempts to improve glide capability of ram air canopies by various means. A good example is adding inflatable bladders into the canopy cells. This method adds stiffness to the ram air canopy and provides a leading edge that resembles a rounded wing geometry. This approach has been shown to result in increased performance. However this method adds complexity to the ram air canopy system with additional hardware for pressure inflation.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a ram air canopy that addresses at least some of the problems identified above.

As described herein the exemplary embodiments overcome one or more of the above or other disadvantages known in the art.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a ram air canopy. In one embodiment the ram air canopy includes a top skin a bottom skin a plurality of ribs between the top skin and the bottom skin forming a plurality of cells. A leading edge of a cell includes an opening to allow air to enter the cell and a glide vent disposed in the top skin to allow air the exit the cell.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is directed to a ram air canopy wing. In one embodiment the ram air canopy wing includes a top surface a bottom surface wherein the top surface and the bottom surface defining an opening there between to allow air to flow into the ram air wing. A glide vent is disposed in the top surface of the ram air canopy wing to allow the air to exit the ram air wing.

These and other aspects and advantages of the exemplary embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims. Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Moreover the aspects and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Referring to one embodiment of a ram air canopy or parachute incorporating aspects of the disclosed embodiments is illustrated. The aspects of the disclosed embodiments are directed to improving the aerodynamic glide of the air ram canopy .

In the example of the ram air canopy includes a top skin or surface and a bottom skin or surface . The top surface and bottom surface are generally formed of a material that is common to ram air canopies and parachutes. A plurality of vertical ribs are formed between the top skin and the bottom skin to form a plurality of cells also referred to as a ram air wing as is generally understood. The ram air canopy of the present disclosure will have a plurality of cells and the aspects of the present disclosure are not intended to be limited by the number of cells of a particular ram air canopy.

Although not necessary for a general understanding of the aspects of the present disclosure in one embodiment suspension lines can be attached to one or more of the ribs as is generally understood. The suspension lines are typically connected together to provide proper suspension of the parachutist or payload below the ram air canopy and maintain the structure and the orientation of the ram air canopy with respect to the payload.

As shown in the example of the leading edge portion of the ram air wing includes an inlet or opening . The inlet or opening generally allows allow air to enter the ram air wing . As was discussed earlier this opening at the leading edge makes the ram air canopy less dynamic.

Referring to the ram air canopy of the disclosed embodiments will include one or more vents on the top surface of the ram air wing . This vent can also be referred to as a glide vent or high glide vent. illustrates the glide vent in an open position or open state where an open state enables fluid or air flow through the vent. illustrates the glide vent in a closed position or closed state the closed state generally preventing fluid or air flow through the vent.

As is illustrated in in one embodiment the glide vent includes a lower member and an upper member . The lower member and upper member define an opening . In one embodiment the upper member extends along and over the lower member . In the closed state as illustrated in the lower member and the upper member are configured to come together to form a seal. In the closed state of the glide vent air flow through the glide vent will be inhibited or generally prevented. In one embodiment control lines can be coupled to one or more of the upper member and lower member to control an opening and closing of the glide vent by movement of one or more of the upper member and lower member .

In one embodiment air can enter the opening at the leading edge of the ram air wing and exit through the glide vent when the glide vent is in the open state. Although the aspects of the disclosed embodiment illustrate the glide vent being formed by a lower member and an upper member the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are not so limited. In alternate embodiments the glide vent can be formed or disposed in the upper surface of the ram air wing of a ram air canopy in any suitable manner.

The material of the glide vent including the lower member and upper member can be formed from a material that is the same as or similar to the material of the ram air canopy . In alternate embodiments the material of the glide vent can be any suitable material that enables the formation of the glide vent in the ram air wing . In one embodiment the complimentary edge portions or other suitable portions of the lower member and the upper member can include a gasket member to enable a sealing of the glide vent in the closed state of the glide vent .

The area of the glide vent generally depend on the desired shape of the glide vent and will be some ratio of the leading edge inlet area . This depend on the design of the particular airfoil chosen for the ram air canopy . The leading edge inlets will typically have different areas for different designs of airfoils. Choosing an airfoil revolves around the particular mission requirements and what is expected from the entire system. In alternate embodiments the shape size and area of the glide vent can be any suitable shape size and area depending upon the particular type of air foil and ram air canopy as noted above.

Although the shape of the glide vent shown in the examples herein is in the form of a square or a rectangle the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are not so limited. In alternate embodiments the particular shape of the glide vent can be any suitable shape based on the desired exiting airflow from the glide vent . For example in one embodiment a shape of the glide vent can be substantially in the form of a V meaning that the shape of the opening of the glide vent in the open state is substantially V shaped. Alternatively the shape of the glide vent can be elliptical or tapered. A tapered shape for example can provide increase a velocity of the air flow and lower pressure. This can be advantageous in improving the glide ratio and controlling the ram air canopy .

In the examples illustrated in the position and location of the glide vent on the upper surface of the ram air wing is towards the trailing edge of the ram air wing . In alternate embodiments the position location and size of the glide vent is dependent upon the particular airfoil. In one embodiment glide vent can be formed in the tail portion of the glide vent where the top surface meets the lower surface .

As shown in in one embodiment a ram air canopy will include a plurality of glide vents generally corresponding to the number of ram air wings or cells. The position and location of a glide vent on one ram air wing does not have to be the same as the position and location of a glide vent on another ram air wing . Thus although the illustration of shows the different glide vents is similar locations and positions on the respective ram air wings generally the glide vents in a ram air canopy do not have to be in the same location and position relative to the leading edge of the ram air canopy . The positions and locations of the glide vents can vary for a particular ram air canopy design. illustrates on such arrangement.

In the example of the ram air canopy includes a plurality of ram air wings each with a top surface . A glide vent is disposed in the top surface of the different ram air wings . As is illustrated in the example of the vents are generally arranged or disposed in different positions or locations on different ram air wings relative to the leading edge or nose of the ram air canopy .

Although a ram air wings shown in include only one glide vent in alternate embodiments a ram air wing can include one or more vents . illustrates such a configuration. In the example of the ram air wing includes a first glide vent and a second glide vent . In alternate embodiments any suitable number of glide vents can be included in any suitable locations and positions depending upon the particular ram air canopy design and configuration. It is also noted that the glide vents can be aligned in similar positions such as the embodiment shown in or in varied positions as shown in . Also one ram air wing may include the glide vents while another ram air wing or cell may include only one glide vent . Although only two glide vents are shown it will be understood that more than two glide vents can be implemented. The arrangement and number of glide vents can be based on the exit flow desired.

Referring again to in one embodiment the glide vent is configured to remain closed during an opening phase of the ram air canopy . This is generally the phase where the ram air canopy is actuated or deployed and each of the ram air wings that make up the ram air canopy start to fill with air. The glide vents can be actuated to the open state after the opening phase of the ram air canopy is complete. In one embodiment the glide vent can be sensitive or reactive to a build up of air in the ram air wing or air pressure and be configured to open when a certain amount of air has built up or a certain air pressure realized.

In one embodiment the glide vent can also include a fabric nozzle that is configured to direct the flow of air out of the opening of the glide vent and along an outside of the top surface of the ram air canopy. The glide vent can also include a damper grate or other pieces of material that can be used to smooth the flow of air exiting the opening of the glide vent .

In one embodiment the glide vents in the ram air canopy can be individually controlled or controlled as a group. By being able to individually control individual ones of the glide vents of the ram air canopy the glide path of the ram air canopy can be controlled. For example by keeping the glide vents on one side of the ram air canopy in an open state and the glide vents on the other side in a closed state there will be less drag on the one side of the ram air canopy with glide vents in the open state. The ram air canopy will then turn due to the differences in drag from one side to the other. In this manner by selectively opening different ones of the glide vents either individually or as a group steering of the ram air canopy can be controlled.

The opening and closing of the glide vent can controlled in a number of ways. In one embodiment referring to the ram air canopy can include one or more control lines that can be manipulated to open and close the glide vent . For example one or more control lines can be run from the lower surface or member of the glide vent to the upper member or top surface. A control device is operably coupled to the control line s and can be used to open and close the glide vent . In one embodiment the control device can be radio controlled. For example the control device can comprise a radio controlled winch. In alternate embodiments the control device can comprise any suitable radio controlled device that can be used to control the opening and closing of the glide vent . Radio signals can be sent to the winch es to control the opening and closing of one or more of the glide vents . In alternate embodiments the opening and closing of a glide vent can be controlled in any suitable manner.

Simulations have indicated that by allowing air to flow through the ram air wing from the opening and out the glide vent that lift is increased by approximately 45 . This is a significant change to the air flow characteristics of the ram air canopy as well as the aerodynamic forces associated with a ram air canopy .

The ram air canopy of the disclosed embodiments addresses the problem of the flow separation bubble or area that forms on the leading edge of the ram air canopy. A vent is provided in the top surface of the ram air canopy. The vent allows air to flow out of or exit the respective cell or ram air wing of the ram air canopy. The vents can be positioned in any suitable location of the top surface of the ram air canopy relative to the leading edge of the ram air canopy. The position location and size and in some cases the number of the vents will be airfoil dependent. The vents can be in different locations and positions on the top surface of the ram air canopy depending upon the type of airfoil or ram air canopy. By minimizing or limiting the region of flow separation or the flow separation bubble on the leading edge of the canopy the lift is increased and there is an improvement in the glide capability of the ram air canopy.

Thus while there have been shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of devices and methods illustrated and in their operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Moreover it is expressly intended that all combinations of those elements and or method steps which perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way to achieve the same results are within the scope of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures and or elements and or method steps shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed or described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

