---

title: Method of improved load distribution over the surface of a parachute canopy
abstract: A parachute canopy system includes a canopy having a skirt and a suspension line system, where each suspension line of the suspension line system is attached to the skirt. A pair of first line members is attached to the canopy, the pair of first line members extending in a substantially radial direction away from the skirt towards a center of the canopy. A first end of each line member in the pair of first line members is connected together to the suspension line at the skirt. A first end of the second line member is connected to adjacent second ends of adjacent pairs of first line members that extend towards the center of the canopy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09180973&OS=09180973&RS=09180973
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09180973
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150820
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of parachute canopies and in particular to load distribution over the surface if a parachute canopy.

Parachutes are commonly used to deliver cargo and supplies to area generally inaccessible by vehicle transport as well as to quickly supply military troops. Materials with high strength to weight ratios are standard for parachute design and construction.

Referring to a plan view of a flat circular parachute canopy system of the prior art is illustrated. A typical parachute system will include a canopy that has a canopy skirt . The parachute system will also include suspension lines that are attached to the canopy and a payload not shown . Typical parachute canopies have suspension tapes that radiate outward from the center of the canopy . The canopy includes radial suspension tapes that are sewn or stitched to the canopy material . Attached to the suspension tapes are the suspension lines that support the payload not shown . The suspension lines are attached at the skirt of the canopy material at attachment points . While these suspension tapes distribute the payload weight evenly over the canopy surface they create stress in the canopy material . This can be evidenced by scalloping in the canopy material when the parachute canopy is inflated. It would be advantageous to be able to reduce the stress in the material of a parachute canopy caused by the suspension tapes .

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a parachute canopy system that addresses at least some of the problems identified above.

As described herein the exemplary embodiments overcome one or more of the above or other disadvantages known in the art.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a parachute canopy system. In one embodiment the parachute canopy system includes a canopy having a skirt and a suspension line system where each suspension line of the suspension line system is attached to the skirt. A pair of first line members is attached to the canopy the pair of first line members extending in a substantially radial direction away from the skirt towards a center of the canopy. A first end of each line member in the pair of first line members is connected together to the suspension line at the skirt. A first end of the second line member is connected to adjacent second ends of adjacent pairs of first line members that extend towards the center of the canopy.

Another aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a parachute canopy system. In one embodiment the parachute canopy system includes a canopy having a skirt a suspension line system attached to the skirt a junction point on the skirt a pair of first lines attached to the canopy and extending in a substantially radial direction away from the skirt towards a center portion of the canopy a first end of each pair of first lines being connected together and to the suspension line at the junction point on the skirt a second line member a first end of the second line connected to the center portion of the canopy and a second end of the second line member connected to adjacent second ends of adjacent pairs of first line members.

A further aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a parachute canopy system. In one embodiment the parachute canopy system includes a peripheral canopy having a vent and a skirt a suspension line system connected at one end to a junction point on the skirt a pair of first line members attached to the canopy one end of the pair of first line members connected to the junction point the pair of first line members extending in a substantially radial direction away from the junction point on the skirt towards the vent an other end of each first line member in the pair of first line members being connected to a junction point on the vent a second line member having one end connected to the junction point on the vent an other end of each second line member connected to a point on each suspension line away from the one end connected to the junction point on the skirt.

These and other aspects and advantages of the exemplary embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims. Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Moreover the aspects and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Referring to an exemplary parachute canopy system incorporating aspects of the present disclosure is generally designated by reference numeral . The aspects of the disclosed embodiments reduce the stress in the canopy material caused by the suspension lines by dividing the forces transmitted by the suspension lines to the radial suspension tapes.

As shown in there are a plurality of pairs of first line members on the canopy . Each first line member in each pair extends away from the junction points in a substantially V shape form. In one embodiment the angle formed between each first line member in the pair is in the range of approximately 5 degrees to and including 60 degrees depending upon the particular application. The other ends of adjacent first line members in adjacent pairs will intersect as shown in at attachment point .

In the embodiment shown in a second line member is connected to the intersection of the adjacent first line members in adjacent pairs . As shown in this intersection at attachment point occurs near on an apex of the center region of the parachute canopy .

The intersection of the first line members at the attachment points divides the suspension line load between each other. This division of forces reduces the stress in the canopy material during for example high force opening the inflation process when payload deceleration occurs or during steady descent.

In one embodiment a first line member also referred to as a load bearing tape is stitched to the canopy material . One end of the vent lines are attached at junction points at vent . The main suspension lines are attached at junction point at skirt . The attachments or connections generally described herein can be in any suitable form including but not limited to stitching.

Thus while there have been shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of devices and methods illustrated and in their operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Moreover it is expressly intended that all combinations of those elements and or method steps which perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way to achieve the same results are within the scope of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures and or elements and or method steps shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed or described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

