---

title: Self-organization network architectures for heterogeneous networks
abstract: Self-Organized Network (SON) architectures for heterogeneous networks are disclosed. In some embodiments, various SON architectures for heterogeneous networks are provided that can evolve with such networks while the core functional modules of the SON solution can remain the same. In some embodiments, techniques for implementing SON architectures for heterogeneous networks includes providing a base station that includes performing a pre-operation self-configuration; and performing an operation self-optimization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380639&OS=09380639&RS=09380639
owner: AirHop Communications, Inc.
number: 09380639
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150205
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 630 237 entitled SELF ORGANIZATION NETWORK ARCHITECTURES FOR HETEROGENEOUS NETWORKS filed Sep. 28 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 541 979 entitled SELF ORGANIZATION NETWORK ARCHITECTURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION filed Sep. 30 2011 both of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Heterogeneous networks are becoming an important deployment strategy for data centric wireless networks e.g. 3G and 4G cellular networks to address capacity and throughput issues. Heterogeneous networks generally include base stations with different radio access technologies e.g. 3G and 4G coverage ranges capacities e.g. macrocell picocells and femtocells and channel bandwidths e.g. 2.5 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz and 20 MHz . This heterogeneous nature made the deployment operation administration maintenance and provisioning of such heterogeneous networks significantly more challenging as compared with homogeneous networks.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

As cellular networks continue to evolve heterogeneous networks are becoming increasingly important with greater usage of smaller cells such as picocells and femtocells. However while macrocells were well planned and controlled by cellular providers the greater usage of these smaller cells which are less planned and centrally controlled e.g. different enterprise users and consumer users can provide and use such smaller cells there is an increasingly likelihood of cellular overlap. As a result fully autonomous modes of operation of macrocells and smaller cells is less desirable as there can be cellular overlap resulting in various radio resource overlap and interference. Accordingly there is a need to provide improved coordination and intelligent radio resource usage among various nodes e.g. smaller cells in heterogeneous networks using SON techniques e.g. among clusters of nodes using autonomous mode techniques using peer to peer techniques and or using server assisted techniques to facilitate centrally coordinating the implementation of optimization parameters for radio resources for each node in a cluster .

Heterogeneous networks are becoming an important deployment strategy for data centric wireless networks e.g. 3G and 4G cellular networks to address capacity and throughput issues. Heterogeneous networks generally include base stations with different radio access technologies e.g. 3G and 4G coverage ranges capacities e.g. macrocell picocells and femtocells and channel bandwidths e.g. 2.5 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz and 20 MHz . This heterogeneous nature of heterogeneous networks has made the deployment operation administration maintenance and provisioning of such heterogeneous networks significantly more challenging as compared with homogeneous networks. For example some of the key challenges include the following a deployment overlapping footprints can cause significant interference issues e.g. in some cases the overlap can be 100 b operation and provisioning spectrum scarcity demands frequency reuse e.g. macrocell and small cells sharing spectrum and c administration and maintenance interference related issues e.g. poor quality of service and dropped calls can be seen in many of the ongoing deployment trials .

Self Organized Network SON has become a requirement to facilitate the deployment operation maintenance and provisioning of heterogeneous networks. However the existing SON solutions are platform dependent and address mainly the configuration and provisioning issues. Accordingly it is important to provide SON architectures that are independent from radio access technologies e.g. 3G UMTS and 4G LTE as well as platform hardware e.g. chipsets processors circuit boards and network interfaces and software e.g. Operating Systems Board Support Packages and protocol stacks . In addition it is important to provide SON architectures that can address the need for deployment operation maintenance and provisioning of heterogeneous networks.

SON solutions are typically defined and implemented based on some existing or known network topologies.

However in today s heterogeneous wireless network the topology of a heterogeneous network will evolve over time due to changing in network coverage requirements capacity requirements throughput requirements Quality of Service QoS requirements and or various other requirements. For example in the early phase of a heterogeneous network where the number base stations e.g. NBs and eNBs are small capacity and throughput are adequate and inter cell interference is minimal such that autonomous distributed SON deployment can be chosen for the ease of deployment and lower cost. As the capacity and throughput requirements increase the number of base stations increases as well as inter cell interference. Hence the total capacity and throughput can in fact decrease due to the increased inter cell interference. In this case the SON deployment can migrate to coordinated distributed or coordinated hybrid deployment to better manage inter cell interference and improve network performance. In other use cases centralized SON deployment can be selected due to existing network management infrastructure.

Accordingly various Self Organized Network SON architectures for heterogeneous networks are disclosed. In some embodiments various SON architectures for heterogeneous networks are provided that can evolve with such networks while the core functional modules of the SON solution can remain the same.

In some embodiments techniques for implementing SON architectures for heterogeneous networks includes providing a base station that includes performing a pre operation self configuration and performing an operation self optimization.

In some embodiments techniques for implementing SON architectures for heterogeneous networks includes providing a base station that includes autonomously performing a pre operation self configuration and autonomously performing an operation self optimization.

In some embodiments techniques for implementing SON architectures for heterogeneous networks includes providing a base station that includes communicating with peer base stations to receive peer to peer radio configuration information for implementing a coordinated distributed Self Organized Network SON deployment and performing an operation self optimization using the peer to peer radio configuration information. In some embodiments the base station is a 4G base station that performs peer to peer communications using an X2 AP link of the base station.

In some embodiments techniques for implementing SON architectures for heterogeneous networks includes providing a base station that includes communicating with a Self Organized Network SON server for implementing a coordinated hybrid distributed SON deployment and performing an operation self optimization using radio configuration information received from the server. In some embodiments the base station is a 4G base station that performs communications to the SON server using an X2 AP link of the base station. In some embodiments the base station is a 4G base station that performs communications to the SON server using an S1 AP link of the base station. In some embodiments the SON server is integrated with an Element Management Server EMS .

As also shown in NB includes protocol stack . In some embodiments the protocol stack includes a physical layer a MAC layer an RLC Radio Link Control layer a PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol layer an RRC Radio Resources Control layer and an RRM Radio Resources Manager layer . As shown RRM RRC RLC MAC and PHY layers can each be in communication with the measurement report of the SON functional modules. As also shown NB includes an AIR interface for communication with other User Equipment UE A B and C.

As also shown in NB includes RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part NBAP Node B Application Part RAU Routing Area Update SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol GTP GPRS Tunneling Protocol TCP IP and TR 069 agent . In some embodiments NBAP provides cell configuration service between the NB and CN Core Network including cell setup and reconfiguration in which RRM Radio Resource Management receives cell setup reconfiguration parameters such as cell identity primary scrambling code transmit power and stores these cell setup reconfiguration parameters in NRM . For example during an optimization process optimization and algorithms modules access cell setup reconfiguration parameters via NRM API . RANAP provides the signaling service between NB and the CN including RAB Radio Access Bearer management in which RRM Radio Resource Management receives RAB configuration reconfiguration with specific QoS requirement for a UE User Equipment to access the CN. RRM PS API registers with RRM for RAB configuration reconfiguration events such that RRM notifies RRM PS API of QoS requirement due to RAB configuration reconfiguration. RRM PS API delivers the QoS requirement to optimization and algorithms module to update optimized parameters e.g. transmit power and duration . Similarly the pre processing module registers with MAC for CQI Channel Quality Indicator from UE such that MAC notifies pre processing module upon CQI updates. Pre processing module processes the CQI e.g. smoothing and then delivers the processed CQI value to optimization and algorithms module to update optimized parameters e.g. transmit power and duration . The optimization and algorithms modules store the latest optimized parameters to NRM via NRM API . In addition the optimization and algorithms module can pass the latest optimized parameters to the RRM MAC and PHY respectively. In some embodiments the SON is implemented with five independent functional modules in which the RRM PS API module and NRM API module handle information exchanging with the protocol stack and NRM native to NB . In some embodiments the optimization and algorithms modules pre processing module and post processing module interact with RRM PS API module and NRM API module only and do not have to have any knowledge on native NB modules. This architecture and implementation makes the SON highly portable to other NB platform. For example when porting the SON to a different NB platform the changes are limited to RRM PS API module and NRM module .

As also shown in NB includes protocol stack . In some embodiments the protocol stack includes a physical layer a MAC layer an RLC Radio Link Control layer a PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol layer an RRC Radio Resources Control layer and an RRM Radio Resources Manager layer . As shown RRM RRC RLC MAC and PHY layers can each be in communication with the RRM PS API module of the SON functional modules . As also shown NB includes an AIR interface for communication with UEs such as shown UE . As shown UE includes a physical layer in communication with physical layer of the protocol stack of the NB a MAC layer an RLC a PDCP and an RRC in communication with RRC of protocol stack of NB .

As shown in the NB includes a power up configuration e.g. in communication with self configuration of server and pre operation configuration e.g. in communication with PCI selection assignment which are part of the pre operation self configuration. The NB also includes SON client e.g. which is in communication with optimization and algorithm modules of server ANR Automatic Neighbor Relation update measurement report and pre processing which are part of the operational self optimization. The NB also includes a protocol stack in which the various layers of the protocol stack including physical layer MAC layer RLC RRC and RRM are in communication with the SON client as shown in .

As also shown in the server includes the following self configuration e.g. in communication with power up configuration of NB neighbor list configuration PCI selection assignment e.g. in communication with pre operation configuration of NB and initial power settings which are part of the pre operation self configuration. The server also includes optimization and algorithm modules e.g. in communication with SON client of NB ANR Automatic Neighbor Relation and PCI conflict resolution which are part of the operational self optimization. In some embodiments the server performs real time optimization and generates updated configuration parameters according to measurement reports QoS requirements and NRM parameters collected from multiple NBs in the same neighbor group. In some embodiments the updated configuration parameters are sent back to NBs which implement the updated configuration parameters. In addition this architecture of SON e.g. using five functional modules provides a flexible platform that facilitates for example the NB to easily migrate from autonomous SON or coordinated distributed SON to centralized SON by relocating the optimization and algorithm modules to server and duplicating the NRM API module on server . For example on NB the interfaces between SON and NB native software modules can remain the same as those similarly described above in autonomous SON and coordinated distributed SON architectures. Also the parameter passing between pre processing modules post processing modules and optimization and algorithms modules can utilize the existing management network interface e.g. TR 069 over TCP IP . This architecture provides the flexibility to relocate and or duplicate certain modules without incurring additional new development.

As shown the NB is in communication with UE via an air interface e.g. using 3G cellular communications and the NB is in communication with the server via a management network interface e.g. TR 069 over TCP IP . In particular the NB includes a network communication stack that includes RRM layer RRC layer e.g. in communication with RRC layer of UE as shown PDCP layer RLC layer MAC layer and PHY layer e.g. in communication with PHY layer of UE as shown . The NB includes SON modules including pre processing modules post processing modules RRM PS API s for network communications as shown and NRM API for communication with NRM as shown e.g. which includes SON Ext and TR 196 as shown . The NB also includes a TR 069 agent for performing TCP IP communications with the server via TCP IP communications layer of the NB and TCP IP communications layer of the server as shown. As also shown the server includes TR 196 that for providing communications with SON modules and NRM as shown and includes standard communication layers for RPC SOAP and HTTP as shown. As also shown User Interface UI modules are implemented on the server to provide for example better usability. As shown UI modules include a Graphical User Interface GUI Command Line Interface CLI alarms and Announciator .

In other embodiments the SON server is integrated with other network equipment e.g. EMS or HNB gateway such that some of the functional modules e.g. NRM module can be shared. illustrates 3G UMTS SON APIs for coordinated hybrid SON deployment when a SON server is integrated with an Element Management Server EMS in accordance with some embodiments. For example the server functionality described above with respect can be integrated into an existing network element such as the EMS . In particular illustrates the architecture in detail such that the SON server is integrated with EMS in accordance with some embodiments. As shown EMS includes functional modules similar to those shown and described above with respect to and EMS further includes EMS apps . For example EMS apps can include NB configuration functions e.g. cell setup channel configuration etc. . As similarly described above with respect to optimization and algorithms module is relocated to the EMS and NRM API is duplicated on the EMS. The parameter passing between pre processing post processing modules and optimization and algorithms module utilizes the existing logical management network interface e.g. TR 069 over TCP IP . Accordingly the flexibility of this architecture allows for some of the modules to be relocated or duplicated into an existing network management server e.g. EMS quickly without incurring any additional development.

In particular illustrates various SON functional modules implemented and integrated on the eNB interfacing with the protocol stack of the eNB software. As shown the SON functional modules are divided into two functional states pre operation self configuration and operational self optimization. During the pre operation self configuration state the SON functional modules power up configuration and initial radio configuration handle initial power up configuration for the eNB including for example backhaul link setup transport network configuration and radio network configuration e.g. PCI conflict resolution transmit power etc. . Upon completing the pre operation self configuration the SON functional modules enter an operational self optimization state. During the operational self optimization state the SON functional modules measurement report pre processing ANR and optimization and algorithm functional modules performs real time optimization by for example receiving various measurement reports and QoS requirements e.g. from other eNBs e.g. peer eNB and or user equipments UEs generating updated configuration parameters per optimization algorithms and applying optimized configuration parameters. Similar to 3G coordinated distributed SON architecture described above in some embodiments measurement report collects measurement reports from RRM and MAC and passes them to pre processing module . Pre processing module performs pre process e.g. smoothing on the measurement reports and then passes this information to its neighbors listed in a neighbour relation table maintained by ANR . In addition pre processing module also collects pre processed measurement reports from its neighbors. Once pre processing module collects all the pre processed measurement reports from its neighbors it passes this information along with its own measurement report s to the optimization and algorithms module to compute the optimized configuration parameters that provide sufficient data throughput to serve UEs attached to the eNB and generate the least amount of inter cell interference to its neighbors. Exchanging measurement reports among neighbors provides each eNB neighbors radio and channel condition which enables the optimization and algorithms modules to generate parameters optimized for itself and neighbors e.g. neighbor base stations .

As also shown in eNB includes protocol stack . In some embodiments the protocol stack includes a physical layer a MAC layer an RLC Radio Link Control layer a PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol layer an RRC Radio Resources Control layer and an RRM Radio Resources Manager layer . As shown RRM RRC RLC MAC and PHY layers can each be in communication with the measurement report of the SON functional modules . As also shown eNB includes an AIR interface for communication with User Equipment UE A C and eNB also includes a network interface for communication with peer eNBs such as peer eNB .

As also shown in eNB includes S1 AP S1 Application Protocol X2 AP X2 Application Protocol SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol eGTP Evolved GPRS Tunneling Protocol TCP IP and TR 069 agent . In particular as shown X2 AP is a standardized 4G interface that facilitates peer to peer communications. In some embodiments X2 AP is used for implementing peer to peer communications to facilitate coordinated distributed SON deployment using various techniques described herein. For example the pre processing module can utilize the X2 AP vendor specific field to pass its pre processed measurement reports to its neighbors instead of using TCP IP. Because X2 AP is 3GPP standardized logical interface and is already connected to its neighbors there is no additional setup or configuration needed to establish separate links with neighbors to pass the pre processed measurement reports and or optimized parameters. In addition X2 AP encapsulates the pre processed measurement reports with X2 AP headers filled with proper neighbor eNB destination addresses and then passes them to SCTP . SCTP puts X2 AP packets into corresponding streams and dispatches them to TCP IP to be routed to their destinations.

As also shown eNB includes an AIR interface for communication with UEs such as shown UE . As shown UE includes a physical layer in communication with physical layer of the protocol stack of the eNB a MAC layer an RLC a PDCP and an RRC in communication with RRC of the protocol stack of eNB .

In addition to preparing measurement reports and QoS requirements from RRM PS API module and NRM parameters from NRM API the pre processing module exchanges the prepared measurement reports QoS requirements and NRM parameters with neighbor NBs such as peer NBs via network interface using TCP IP as shown. In some embodiments the optimization and algorithms module receives neighbor NB measurement reports QoS requirements and NRM parameters as additional inputs for inter cell interference management and network performance optimization. Similar to the advantages described above with respect to receiving neighbor NB measurement reports QoS requirements and NRM parameter s as additional inputs provides eNB neighbors radio and channel condition which enables the optimization and algorithms modules to generate parameters optimized for itself and neighbors e.g. neighbor base stations that provides sufficient data throughput to serve UEs attached to the eNB and generated a reduced amount e.g. the least amount of inter cell interference to the neighbors.

As shown in the eNB includes a power up configuration e.g. in communication with self configuration of server and pre operation configuration e.g. in communication with PCI selection assignment of server which are part of the pre operation self configuration. The eNB also includes SON client e.g. which is in communication with optimization and algorithm modules of server ANR update measurement report and pre processing which are part of the operational self optimization. The eNB also includes a protocol stack in which the various layers of the protocol stack including physical layer MAC layer RLC RRC and RRM are in communication with the SON client as shown in .

As also shown in the server includes the following self configuration e.g. in communication with power up configuration of eNB neighbor list configuration PCI selection assignment e.g. in communication with pre operation configuration of eNB and initial power settings which are part of the pre operation self configuration. The server also includes optimization and algorithm modules e.g. in communication with SON client of eNB ANR and PCI conflict resolution which are part of the operational self optimization. In some embodiments the server performs real time optimization and generates updated configuration parameters according to measurement reports QoS requirements and NRM parameters collected from multiple NBs in the same neighbour group e.g. cluster . In some embodiments the updated configuration parameters are sent back to eNBs which implement the updated configuration parameters. For example because the server performs pre operation self configuration services to many eNBs the server can coordinate the configuration parameters to avoid or minimize the conflicts e.g. PCI or interference initially. Once the eNB enters the operational self optimization phase the eNB begins to exchange measurement reports and parameters with its neighbors and executes optimization algorithms e.g. in real time . further illustrates the flexibility of this architecture e.g. using five functional modules for implementing coordinated hybrid SON techniques as described herein.

In some embodiments the SON server in the hybrid deployment is implemented as stand alone network management equipment for SON specific tasks. illustrates 4G UMTS SON APIs for coordinated hybrid SON deployment in accordance with some embodiments. For example centralized server based techniques can be provided for implementing coordinated hybrid SON deployment. In particular illustrates the architecture in detail in which the SON solution is implemented on a 4G eNB and a stand alone SON server in accordance with some embodiments. As shown optimization and algorithms module is located in SON modules on the server instead of on eNB and the NRM module and NRM API are replicated from the eNB as further described below. In addition UI modules are implemented on the server to provide better usability as further described below.

As shown the eNB is in communication with UE via an air interface e.g. using 4G cellular communications and the eNB is in communication with the server via a management network interface e.g. TR 069 over TCP IP . In particular the eNB includes a network communication stack that includes RRM layer RRC layer e.g. in communication with RRC layer of UE as shown PDCP layer RLC layer MAC layer and PHY layer e.g. in communication with PHY layer of UE as shown . The eNB includes SON modules including pre processing modules post processing modules RRM PS API s for network communications as shown and NRM API for communication with NRM as shown e.g. which includes SON Ext and TR 196 as shown . The eNB also includes a TR 069 agent for performing TCP IP communications with the server via TCP IP communications layer of the eNB and TCP IP communications layer of the server as shown. As also shown the server includes TR 196 that for providing communications with SON modules and NRM as shown and includes standard communication layers for RPC SOAP and HTTP as shown. As also shown User Interface UI modules are implemented on the server to provide for example better usability. As shown UI modules include a Graphical User Interface GUI Command Line Interface CLI alarms and Announciator .

In some embodiments X2 AP is used for communicating with the server to facilitate centralized server based for implementing coordinated hybrid SON deployment. In addition and or alternatively S1 AP can be used to facilitate communicating with the server to facilitate centralized server based for implementing coordinated hybrid SON deployment. For example the pre processing module can utilize the S1 AP vendor specific field to pass its pre processed measurement reports to the server instead of using TCP IP or TR 069 over TCP IP. Because S1 AP is a 3GPP standardized logical interface and is already connected to its neighbors there is no additional setup or configuration needed to establish separate links with neighbors to pass the pre processed measurement reports and or optimized parameters. S1 AP also encapsulates the pre processed measurement reports with S1 AP headers filled with proper neighbor eNB destination addresses and then passes them to SCTP. In addition SCTP puts X2 AP packets into corresponding streams and dispatches them to TCP IP to be routed to their destinations. The server executes the optimization algorithms upon receiving the measurement reports and parameters. Then the server sends the optimized parameters back to individual eNBs via S1 AP vendor specific fields. Accordingly the flexibility of this architecture e.g. using five functional modules allows for some of the modules e.g. optimization and algorithms module and NRM API to be relocated or duplicated from the eNB to a server e.g. server quickly without incurring any additional development.

In other embodiments the SON server is integrated with other network equipment e.g. EMS or MME such that some of the functional modules e.g. NRM module can be shared. illustrates 4G UMTS SON APIs for coordinated hybrid SON deployment when SON server is integrated with EMS in accordance with some embodiments. For example the server functionality described above with respect can be integrated into an existing network element such as the EMS . In particular illustrates the architecture in detail such that the SON server is integrated with EMS in accordance with some embodiments. As shown EMS includes functional modules similar to those shown and described above with respect to and EMS further includes EMS apps . For example EMS apps can include pre operation self configuration functions e.g. transport configuration neighbor list PCI . Because the optimization and algorithms module and EMS apps reside in the same platform the EMS apps can take advantage of the available advanced algorithms when a new eNB is deployed in a neighborhood during the pre operation self configuration phase. Accordingly using these techniques can minimize the ripple effects to the existing wireless network due to new eNB deployment.

Having now fully described the inventive subject matter it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the same can be performed within a wide range of equivalent modifications variations and adaptations without departing from the scope patent disclosure.

While this disclosure has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications. This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the disclosure following in general the principles of the disclosure and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the disclosure pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

