---

title: Method and device for improving lawful interception of a call
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure disclose a method and a device for improving lawful interception of a call is provided. The method comprises monitoring a telecommunication call of a lawful interception target subscriber. Then, the method comprises detecting a call-release trigger associated with the telecommunication call. Further, the method comprises initiating a media plane audit of the telecommunication call to determine whether the call-release trigger is a false release trigger. The media plane audit determines whether media plane resources for the telecommunication call is released in response to the call-release trigger. Additionally, the method includes performing at least one call handling action in response to determining a false release trigger.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374848&OS=09374848&RS=09374848
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09374848
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150623
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to India Application No. 1301 CHE 2015 filed Mar. 16 2015. The entire content of the aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present subject matter is related in general to call interception techniques and more particularly but not exclusively to systems and methods for improved lawful interceptions for calls.

Currently digital communication has revolutionized telephone networks. There are legal organizations for monitoring telephonic communications wherever there is a chance of suspect of any terror or for any other illegal operations. A Lawful interception LI is the legally sanctioned official access to private communications such as telephone calls or e mail messages. In general LI is a security process in which a network operator or service provider gives law enforcement officials access to the communications of private individuals or organizations.

In the discipline of Lawful Interception it is important to distinguish and know between Network Access and Network Services since the two are somewhat different by convention. Network Access is typically managed by the Network Access Provider AP who s infrastructure often but now always relies on that of the Network Operator NWO such as the incumbent telecom operator local cable TV service or wireless services operator. Network Services mentioned here are be E mail chat WIFI etc. In the context of lawful interception Lawful enforcement Agencies LEA often must interact with both Network Access and Network Services to intercept target data. The target meant here was the intercepted person.

Conventional methods of LEA interception and monitoring of call by suspect LI target comprises typical interception and monitoring of call by a LEA. The method comprises LEA interface LEAI activates interception for a subscriber LI target . This activates interception for all calls involving the LI target until the LI is deactivated by the LEAI. Next call initiation and interception method in which a call involving the LI target is initiated with the LI target being the calling or the called user in the call. While setting up the call involving the LI target subscriber the Media gate controller MGC Softswitch initiates interception of the call. The MGC passes signaling information and initiates transfer of media information from the MGW to LEA Interface via LIG . The LEA monitors current state of the call using information received. Next performing Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF reporting and false release trigger in which the calling or the called user may perform some DTMF activity to trigger a false call release event. The DTMF activity is captured by the Media Gateway MGW and reported to the Anti Fraud Control System Interface in the MGC through Media Gateway Interface. The MGC reports the DTMF activity to the Anti Fraud Control system or sub system . Also the MGC receives a false release trigger due to the DTMF activity by calling or called user. Thereafter call and interception termination is performed by the MGC. The MGC performs the call termination based on the false release trigger received to release all the resources for the call on the signaling plane. The MGC performs call interception termination based on this false release trigger. The MGC informs LEA through LEA interface that the call is released over HI2 signaling interface as CC Close message and the media information transmission through LEAI is stopped.

In this method it is clear that the media path between the calling and called user is still active even after the call release in the signaling plane since the release trigger was a false one intended to terminate the connection on the signaling plane only while the two users involved in the call will continue their conversation. Since the MGC Soft switch terminates the interception of the call based on the false release trigger the LI target subscriber can continue communication without being monitored by the LEA as the MGW stops sending media information to the LEA through LEAI.

Available mechanism fails to ensure that the target interception continues with LEA till the actual call disconnection happens in the network. The key limitation are determination of actual call status in case of a potentially fraudulent call and taking action on the call based on preference of LEA in order for uninterrupted tracking of the LI target.

There exists a need to have a mechanism to identify actual status of a potentially fraudulent call on real time basis and take appropriate measures for uninterrupted tracking of the LI target by LEA.

Disclosed herein is a method and device for improving the interception mechanism. The method comprises monitoring a telecommunication call of a lawful interception target subscriber to detect a call release trigger associated with the telecommunication call initiate a media plane audit to determine whether the call release trigger is a false release trigger and perform call handling action in response to determining a false release trigger.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure a lawful interception device is provided. The lawful interception device comprises a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The memory stores processor executable instructions which when executed by the processor causes the processor to monitor a telecommunication call of a lawful interception target subscriber detect a call release trigger associated with the telecommunication call initiate a media plane audit of the telecommunication call to determine whether the call release trigger is a false release trigger and perform at least one call handling action in response to determining a false release trigger. The media plane audit determines whether media plane resources for the telecommunication call is released in response to the call release trigger.

In an aspect of the present disclosure a method for improving lawful interception of a call is provided. The method comprises monitoring a telecommunication call of a lawful interception target subscriber. Then the method comprises detecting a call release trigger associated with the telecommunication call. Further the method comprises initiating a media plane audit of the telecommunication call to determine whether the call release trigger is a false release trigger. The media plane audit determines whether media plane resources for the telecommunication call is released in response to the call release trigger. Additionally the method includes performing at least one call handling action in response to determining a false release trigger.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed. The non transitory computer readable medium includes instructions stored thereon that when processed by a processor causes a device to perform operations comprising monitoring a telecommunication call of a lawful interception target subscriber. The operations also comprise detecting a call release trigger associated with the telecommunication call. The operations further comprise initiating a media plane audit of the telecommunication call to determine whether the call release trigger is a false release trigger wherein the media plane audit determines whether media plane resources for the telecommunication call is released in response to the call release trigger. Additionally the operation may include performing at least one call handling action in response to determining a false release trigger.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternative falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.

The terms comprises comprising or any other variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a setup device or method that comprises a list of components or steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps not expressly listed or inherent to such setup or device or method. In other words one or more elements in a device or system or apparatus proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the device or system or apparatus.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are related to a method and device for improving lawful interception of a call.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

A law enforcement agency LEA may provide a request and or authorization for a lawful interception LI of calls involving a target user. A LEA may be a government organization. Example LEAs include local state national and international agencies that may monitor and track criminal activities or protect national interests. An LEA LI may require approval from another entity. For example a city police department may need approval from the judiciary e.g. a judge in order to approve an LI. In other embodiments an LEA may include a quasi governmental entity or a private investigator.

Illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are listed below. In one embodiment improved call interception systems devices are described. In another embodiment call interception processes using improved interception systems devices is described. In an embodiment a computer system is disclosed which may carry out disclosed processes. The disclosed systems and processes may be used in conjunction or applied separately without limitation.

In an embodiment LEA may include LEA administrator . LEA administrator may be a computerized interface to receive user input. In other embodiments LEA administrator may be an automated server such as a networked hardware server which may process call intercept requests without human intervention.

The LEA administrator may provide call intercept information to service provider . In an embodiment LEA administrator may provide an LI action to LI provisioning system using HI1 interface . For example LEA administrator may transmit an identifier of a target identifier such as a telephone number or IP address. LEA administrator may further indicate additional details for the LI action. For example the LI action may indicate expiration for the LI action multiple target identifiers preferred monitoring data e.g. particular formats for LI information types of channels to monitor and whether to use in band DTMF analysis. These details may allow LEA to specify LI actions that comply with local and national laws regarding surveillance and call monitoring.

In an embodiment LEA may include LEA enforcement monitoring facility LEMF . The LEMF may receive LI data from service provider . In an embodiment LEMF may receive information from LI gateway using HI2 interface or HI3 interface . For example HI2 interface may include call detail information such as timing numbers and DTMF data. LEMF may receive media content e.g. voice video data fax from LI gateway using HI3 interface . LEMF may store and provide LI information to networks device and users of LEA . For example LEMF may receive requests from networked device for specific LI information. LEMF may provide requested detail information or media content to the networked device.

While LEA administrator and LEMF are depicted as part of LEA it is to be understood that LEA administrator and LEMF may not be physically located at a law enforcement agency. In some embodiments LEA administrator and LEMF may be located at different secure sites such as secured information facilities. In an embodiment LEA administrator and LEMF may not be collocated. For example LEA administrator may be located at a different location than LEMF .

In an embodiment service provider may include LI provisioning system . LI provisioning system may receive call intercept requests. For example LI provisioning system may receive call intercept requests e.g. LI requests or LI actions from LEA . In an embodiment the call intercept requests may include an identifier corresponding to a target user. For example the call intercept may include the IP address telephone number MAC address or email address of a person whose calls should be intercepted. LI provisioning system may transmit messages to improved MGC and LI gateway based on the call intercept requests. For example LI provisioning system may transmit the target user identifier such as a telephone number to improved MGC over X1 interface with an instruction to monitor in band signaling for the target user identifier. LI provisioning system may also transmit information and instructions to LI gateway over X1 interface .

In an embodiment service provider may include at least one media gateway MGW and media gateway controller MGC . As depicted service provider includes improved MGC and improved MGW . The improved MGC and improved MGW may provide standard gateway controller and gateway functionality respectively. They may also perform DTMF detection. For example improved MGW may monitor the information being transferred in the media path such as DTMF tones that occur during DTMF digit dialing.

Improved MGW may send improved notifications to improved MGC . For example improved MGW may transmit improved notifications that include DTMF tones captured from in band signaling.

In an embodiment service provider may include LI gateway . LI gateway may receive information from improved MGC and improved MGW . For example improved MGC may provide call detail information over X2 interface while improved MGW may provide media content e.g. voice video data fax over X3 interface .

The LI gateway may perform transcoding processes. In an embodiment LI gateway may reformat data received from improved MGC and improved MGW prior to sending the data to LEMF . LI gateway may transcode data to a particular format. For example LI gateway may convert captured audio from to a particular file format or compress video. In an embodiment the LI action received from LEA administrator may include specific formatting requirements for data. LI provisioning system may transmit these requirements to LI gateway over X1 interface . The formatting requirements may specify for example file formats bit rates file size limits resolution requirements and image types.

In an embodiment the MGC may include various sub systems to perform the objects of this disclosure. As depicted the MGC may include provisioning interface configuration module CM LI sub system media connection verification module MCVM media gateway interface anti fraud control system signaling sub system billing sub system routing session management control RSMC and other sub systems . Additional sub systems may be used to perform disclosed processes. These sub systems may be discrete units or combined into fewer separate sub systems. The sub systems may be made of discrete circuitry or processors or programmable applications which run on hardware.

The provisioning interface may interact with the external provisioning systems such as element management systems EMS and network management systems NMS . In an embodiment provisioning interface may communicate with operator input provisioning and soft switch provisioning system . The provisioning interface may make updates to copies of provisioned data in the MGC and may pass information to the necessary sub systems so that the provisioned data may be used by different sub systems. In an embodiment the provisioning interface may interact with LEA systems. The provisioning interface may obtain input from a LI gateway using for example an LEA interface. The input may describe the specific actions to be taken by MGC when a potential false trigger for LI initiation for a call. For example the provisioning interface may receive one of false release specification as provisioned and potential false trigger for LI initiation for a call via the LEA interface LEAI and passes the information to the CM .

The configuration module CM may process inputs from the provisioning interface that is the necessary information and register an action to be taken when a false release is triggered. The CM processes the information such as but not limited to system load congestion level in the traffic route that are available in the MGC . The CM is configured with a processing logic to determine a wait time after which a call which is falsely released is to be really released on the media plane level. The wait time is determined based on at least one of predefined minimum time duration predefined maximum time duration load of one or more telecom interception devices and congestion of network paths associated with the telecommunication call. For example the predefined minimum time duration may be in the range of few seconds to several minutes. The predefined minimum time duration is provided by the LEA to increase the effectiveness of LI. The predefined maximum time duration for example may be in terms of several minutes and is provided by an operator to minimize revenue losses while complying with any rules or guidelines that may have been specified by the LEA.

The LI sub system may process LI actions from an LEA such as LEA . In an embodiment the LI sub system may carry out all LI related actions in MGC . The LI sub system may interface with the LEA e.g. via LI gateway . The LI sub system may provide signaling information for an LEA for example through LI gateway over an X2 interface. The LI sub system may initiate media content duplication and transport to an LEA. In an embodiment the LI sub system may receive input from the provisioning interface and the MCVM . For example the LI sub system upon receiving a trigger from the MCVM to terminate the call interception may terminate the call interception over the LEA interface LEAI . For the call termination the LI sub system performs at least one of sending a CC Close signal to the LEAI releasing all resources related to LI and triggering for termination of the media path towards LEAI.

In one embodiment the LI sub system upon receiving information from the MCVM register the actual reason for termination of call interception which is when the fraudulent call is released the LI sub system includes appropriate information in the CC Close register towards the LEAI.

The MCVM may receive at least one of DTMF digits from the MGW DTMF digits patterns whether it was dialed by the user from which side the release trigger is received and historic data on trends of calls involving one of the users always involving DTMF digit exchange before a call release trigger. The MCVM analyzes the received input to determine the possibility of a call involving a LI target user to be falsely released. For example if the analysis outcome indicates that the release trigger may be a false one then the MCVM verifies whether the call is falsely released by initiating an audit to be performed by the MGW on the media plane for the call for which a false release trigger was received. In another example if the analysis outcome of the MCVM indicates that the media plane resources for the call are not released and two users involved in the call can still communicate the MCVM triggers the CM to determine the next step of action.

In one embodiment the MCVM initiates a media plane audit not shown in the figure based on the outcome of the analysis of received inputs. If the present call is possibly a fraudulent call then the MCVM initiates the media plane audit towards the MGW for the specific call with the potentially fraudulent release event. If the media plane audit reveals that the media resources are still not cleared i.e. the release trigger was a false one and the users involved in the fraudulent call can still communicate with each other then the MCVM triggers the CM to determine the next course of action. The CM triggers the MCVM to perform at least one call handling action in response to the false release trigger. The at least one call handling action comprises at least one of releasing the media plane resources terminating telecommunication call interception and continuing the telecommunication call.

In one embodiment the CM is configured with a processing logic and which determines Wait Time duration which may be 0 or greater than 0. Based on the Wait Time duration the MCVM decides on further course of action. The MCVM sends relevant information to the LI sub system associated with real reason for the call release. The LI subsystem passes the information to the LEA through the LEAI.

The Media Gateway Interface MGI may process DTMF information received from the MGW . The MGI sends the processed information to the MCVM and also to the Anti Fraud Control System Interface AFCSI . The MGI is responsible for handling the state machine and interactions with the MGW .

The AFCSI is configured to interact with the Anti Fraud Control System AFCS and trigger necessary actions for anti fraud within the MGC . The AFCSI performs at least one of passing the DTMF signaling information to the AFCS triggering a call disconnection or silence insertion in the call i.e. in the media path between the calling and called users based on the instructions from the AFCS .

Signaling sub system may manage signaling protocol process for MGC . For example signaling sub system may monitor and control signaling state machines and protocol function handling for various call setup signaling interfaces to other MGCs and SIP nodes and networks e.g. PSTN PLMN . The RSMC may perform call control processes. In an embodiment the RSMC may be responsible for set up and tear down of a call session. The RSMC may control routing of the call to the proper destination and triggering other sub systems such as billing sub system . The billing sub system may provide billing services process charges associated with call services. In an embodiment billing sub system may process call charges. For example the billing sub system may collect information such as call data records and transport the call data records to a business support sub system BSS periodically over standard or proprietary interfaces. The other sub systems may represent other sub systems that may be present in MGC . These sub systems may not be used in disclosed processes.

The system may include MGW . In an embodiment MGW may include various sub system for implementing disclosed processes. The calling or the called user may perform some DTMF activity to trigger a false call release event. The DTMF activity is captured by the MGW and reported to the Anti Fraud Control System Interface through MGI . For example if a call involving the LI target subscriber i.e. as calling or called user upon receiving a false release trigger from the calling or called user side after DTMF digits are dialed by calling or called user the MGC analyzes the possibility of the call being a fraudulent call i.e. the release trigger received is a false release trigger. Based on the outcome of the analysis if the MGC concludes that the present call is possibly a fraudulent call it initiates the media plane audit towards the MGW for the specific call with the potentially fraudulent release event.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

The process may begin at step . In step LI provisioning system may receive an LI action from LEA administrator using a LEA interface LEAI . The LI action may include an activation of a LI for a particular subscriber e.g. a target user . The LI activation may allow interception for all calls involving service provider or MGC until the LI is deactivated. In other embodiments the LI activation may include an activation period. For example the LI action may indicate that the LI expires at a particular time.

In step LEA interface LEAI specifies what action to take upon reception of a false release trigger. The action could indicate immediate release of the media resources meaning real termination of the call and also the call interception or release of the media plane resources or to continue the call. In case of specifying that the call should be continued upon a false release trigger the LEAI also specifies the minimum duration for which the call should be continued. The false release specification information is received by the Provisioning Interface which passes it on to the Configuration Module CM in the MGC or softswitch .

In step call initiation is performed by the MGC . A call involving the LI target is initiated with the LI target being the calling or the called user in the call. Also the call interception is initiated by the MGC or softswitch i.e. while setting up the call involving the LI target subscriber. Thereafter the MGC transfers signaling information and also initiates transfer of media information from the MGW to the LEAI through LIG. The LEA monitors the current state of the call using information received.

Step is the DTMF reporting to the MGC which is performed by the Media Gateway MGW . The calling or the called user may perform some DTMF activity to trigger a false call release event. The DTMF activity is captured by the MGW and reported to the Anti Fraud Control System Interface and the Media Connection Verification Module MCVM in the MGC through Media Gateway Interface . Thereafter the MGC reports the DTMF activity to the Anti Fraud Control system .

In step the MGC receives a false release trigger based on the DTMF activity by calling or called user. The MGC triggers the MCVM for determining potentially fraudulent call which is as shown in step .

In step for a call involving the LI target subscriber which is calling or called user upon receiving a release event the MCVM in the MGC is triggered by the routing session management and control sub system of the MGC before any further actions related to interception LI are triggered.

In step determination of potentially fraudulent call is performed by the MGC . The MCVM first analyzes the possibility of the call being a fraudulent call based on the release trigger received which may be a false release trigger. This analysis is based on at least one of the DTMF digits and the DTMF patterns received from the MGW at step . The analysis also takes into consideration whether the call is dialed by the user from which side the release trigger was received. Also the analysis uses the historic trends of calls involving one of the users always involving DTMF digit exchange before a release trigger. For example if the DTMF digits were dialed before receiving a release trigger for a call involving an LI target then the MCVM may conclude that there is a potentially fraudulent call. Also when the MCVM requests the Anti Fraud Control System via the Anti Fraud Control System Interface the possibility of the release being a false release trigger further steps taken will be based on the response from the Anti Fraud Control System .

In step if the analysis at the step indicates that there is a potentially fraudulent call the MCVM initiates a media plane audit on the MGW through the Media Gateway Control Interface for the specific call involving the LI target with the fraudulent release event.

In step if the media plane audit from the MGW indicates that the media path is still active for the fraudulent call involving the LI target then the MCVM triggers the configuration module CM to determine the action to be taken and determine Wait Time if applicable. The wait time is determined based on at least one of predefined minimum time duration predefined maximum time duration load of one or more telecom interception devices and congestion of network paths associated with the telecommunication call. The CM in the MGC determines the Wait Time based on the LEA specification. The CM determines the Wait Time based on at least one of minimum duration specified by the LEA through the LEAI T min operator provisioned limit for the maximum duration for a non billed but billable call to continue from the Provisioning Interface module T max system load congestion levels in the routes to the nodes involved in the call that is continuing beyond the false release. The CM determines the Wait Time using the inputs using the following steps as an example 

In one embodiment congestion level indicates amount of traffic on the routes or paths to or from the nodes involved in the fraudulent call. The determination of congestion level is implementation dependent for example if the messages in the transmission queue are greater than a predefined limit or if acknowledgement of messages my take longer than a predefined threshold.

In an embodiment an overload level indicates the load on the MGC or softswitch and or the MGW . The overload level is determined based on at least one of the components such as but not limited to the MGC and the MGW . The overload level in the MGC may be determined based on the parameters such as but not limited to factors such as processor CPU occupancy thresholds number of calls actively handled by the softswitch at present etc. the overload level in the MGW may be determined based on factors such as but not limited to processor occupancy thresholds queue thresholds and internal delay thresholds. Also in addition to the above parameters or factors aspects such as whether the call is in an international call call involving different networks whether one of the subscribers involved in the call is a priority subscriber etc. may be considered and appropriate factors for the same may be used for calculating the Wait Time. The Wait Time calculated by the CM is sent to the MCVM .

In step the MGC initiates fraudulent call clean up. Based on the received Wait Time the MCVM instructs transmission of media information through LEAI to continue or not. In one embodiment a status update is provided to the LEA as CC Continue with update of the actual status of the call this is done in case the Wait Time is 0 i.e. the MCVM receives instruction from the CM to continue the telecommunication call and also continue the transmission of media information through LEAI until expiry of the Wait Time duration. The status of the call may be only media plane is active. Next upon expiry of the Wait Time the MCVM performs one of initiating clearing of one of local resources and state machines within the MGC and clearing of all media plane resources which is real ending of the call. This is performed by instructing to clear the terminations involved in the call by sending a trigger to the Media Gateway Interface module which in turn instructs the MGW .

In one embodiment the MCVM initiates the termination of the call interception over the LEAI through the LI subsystem which causes the CC Close to be sent to LEAI and the media path towards LEAI to be terminated. In an example if Wait Time 0 then the actions described in step may be performed immediately based on the Audit Reply info received from the MGW that the call is not released on media plane level. Also in case if the Anti Fraud Control system instructs the call to be released which is based on the DTMF info reported in Step before the expiry of Wait time the MGC Softswitch may not release the call until expiry of the Wait time and provide appropriate feedback to the Anti Fraud Control System why it failed to do so. In another embodiment if the media content which may be one of actual voice and data contents duplication of the call is performed in a media server instead of the MGW and from there it is transported to the LEA then clearing the media plane resources also include clearing the media server resources for this call.

In step Lawful interception LI sub system sends an improved call report to the Lawful enforcement Agencies LEA . The MCVM when initiating the instructions to the LI sub system to terminate the interception also provides an indication of the real reason for release. The real reason may be calling or called user is a fraudulent user. Based on real reason the LI sub system includes the information in the CC Close and sent it to the LEA over the LEAI to indicate the real reason for the call release which is an enhancement of the standard interface. This also aids the LEA to contact the Anti Fraud system offline for more info. This step is performed irrespective of whether the Wait Time 0 or not. If Wait Time is greater than 0 then the MCVM may indicate to the LI sub system that the media plane release alone is pending for this call which causes the LI sub system to send a CC Continue record to the LEA through the LEAI to indicate that the call is continuing without the knowledge of the network operator.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.11 a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc. Variations of memory devices may be used for implementing for example LEMF service provider MGC and MGW .

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides enabling uninterrupted which is improved and more effective LI even for fraudulent calls after explicit verification of whether media plane resources for the call are still active or not i.e. whether the calling and called users can still communicate or not.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure when the network receives a false release trigger it would release all resources as well as the terminate LI prematurely while the calling and called users continue their communication.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure for fraudulent calls based on the specification of the LEA allowing the communication between the calling and called users to continue for a finite duration with LI also continuing without any interruption. This makes the LI more effective and would aid the LEA in further investigations.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides an improved call report to the LEA specifying the actual reason for the call termination and indication that it is a fraudulent call. This would also aid the LEA in further investigations.

The described operations may be implemented as a method system or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The described operations may be implemented as code maintained in a non transitory computer readable medium where a processor may read and execute the code from the computer readable medium. The processor is at least one of a microprocessor and a processor capable of processing and executing the queries. A non transitory computer readable medium may comprise media such as magnetic storage medium e.g. hard disk drives floppy disks tape etc. optical storage CD ROMs DVDs optical disks etc. volatile and non volatile memory devices e.g. EEPROMs ROMs PROMs RAMs DRAMs SRAMs Flash Memory firmware programmable logic etc. etc. Further non transitory computer readable media comprise all computer readable media except for a transitory. The code implementing the described operations may further be implemented in hardware logic e.g. an integrated circuit chip Programmable Gate Array PGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. .

Still further the code implementing the described operations may be implemented in transmission signals where transmission signals may propagate through space or through a transmission media such as an optical fiber copper wire etc. The transmission signals in which the code or logic is encoded may further comprise a wireless signal satellite transmission radio waves infrared signals Bluetooth etc. The transmission signals in which the code or logic is encoded is capable of being transmitted by a transmitting station and received by a receiving station where the code or logic encoded in the transmission signal may be decoded and stored in hardware or a non transitory computer readable medium at the receiving and transmitting stations or devices. An article of manufacture comprises non transitory computer readable medium hardware logic and or transmission signals in which code may be implemented. A device in which the code implementing the described embodiments of operations is encoded may comprise a computer readable medium or hardware logic. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the invention and that the article of manufacture may comprise suitable information bearing medium known in the art.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the invention.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the invention need not include the device itself.

The illustrated operations of show certain events occurring in a certain order. In alternative embodiments certain operations may be performed in a different order modified or removed. Moreover steps may be added to the above described logic and still conform to the described embodiments. Further operations described herein may occur sequentially or certain operations may be processed in parallel. Yet further operations may be performed by a single processing unit or by distributed processing units.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based here on. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

