---

title: Expanding lattice notch array antenna
abstract: The present disclosure is directed toward a notch array antenna comprised of a plurality of notch antenna elements projecting from a surface of a base plate at varying angles to provide an array having an expanding element structure. The plurality of notch antenna elements are organized in a regular spacing in one or two directions along the surface of the base plate and each of the plurality of notch antenna elements is formed by a gap between conductive parts projecting from the first surface of the base plate. The notch array antenna includes a plurality of notch antenna element axes, whereby each notch antenna element axis is defined along a centerline of one of the notch antenna elements. Each notch antenna element axis may extend from the first surface of the base plate at systematically varying angles with respect to an axis perpendicular to the base plate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614290&OS=09614290&RS=09614290
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09614290
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151203
---
This invention was made with the government support under Contract No. N00019 13 C 0128 awarded by the U.S. Navy. The government has certain rights in this invention.

As known in the art notch antenna elements or more simply notches are frequently used in the design of linear and planar array antennas. Such arrays may operate with multiple polarizations. The spacing between notches is referred to as the lattice constant of the array and is constrained by electromagnetic principles to be no greater than a certain value in order to prevent unwanted array characteristics known as Bragg or grating lobes. On the other hand minimum spacing is constrained by the ability to package and integrate the electronics to provide signals to and from the array as well as the economics of total antenna element and active channel count which increases with decreasing spacing between elements in the array.

Attempts to properly size array antennas using notch radiators in confined spaces such as airborne pods missile bodies wing leading edges etc. is therefore a balance between ideally maximizing the total array area while fitting within available volume. If it is necessary to package electronics more densely than desired for the array a dilation layer is typically employed which mechanically translates the necessary connections from the electronics spacing to the notch element spacing. This dilation adds depth to the overall system and adds signal loss in the system.

Correspondingly in the opposite direction if electronics cannot be packaged down to the scale needed for the desired array spacing that prevents grating lobes a dilation layer with a negative scale factor permits connection of the necessary feeds from the larger electronics spacing to the smaller array element spacing. This too adds depth to the overall installation and incurs power losses.

The present disclosure is directed toward an expanding lattice notch antenna that includes a plurality of notch antenna elements extending from a surface of a base plate. The properties and dimensions of the notch antenna elements can be manipulated in order to provide an expanding notch array antenna whereby an area of a base portion of the array is different from an area of a top portion of the array without increasing an overall height of the notch array antenna. By modifying the spatial relationships between notch antenna elements in the array while at the same time maintaining a height of the notch array antenna an expanding lattice notch array antenna is provided which avoids both an increase to overall assembly depth and the additional path losses associated with the dilation as a separate layer.

According to one aspect of the concepts systems and techniques described herein an expanding lattice notch array antenna includes a base plate having first and second opposing surfaces and a plurality of notch antenna elements organized in a regular spacing in one or two directions along the first surface of the base plate. Each of the plurality of notch antenna elements is formed by a gap between a pair of conductive fin shaped members projecting from the first surface of the base plate. Thus a first end of each notch element is coupled to a first surface of the base plate and a second end of each notch element extends above the first surface of the base plate. Each notch element has an axis defined along a centerline of the notch. The notch antenna elements in the array are disposed such that each notch antenna element axis extends from the first surface of the base plate at systematically varying angles with respect to an axis perpendicular to the base plate.

In an embodiment notch antenna elements in the notch array have systematically varying lengths such that the second ends of each notch antenna element lie on a plane parallel to and spaced apart from a plane defined by the first surface of the base plate. In some embodiments the lengths of each of the notch antenna elements may differ such that the second endpoints of each notch antenna element do not lie in a plane parallel to the first surface of the base plate.

In some embodiments a spacing between the first ends of each notch antenna element e.g. a point on the axis of the notch antenna element which lies on a plane defined by the first surface of the base plate is less than the spacing between the second ends of each notch antenna element at a top of the notch array antenna e.g. the spacing between points which lie on the axis of the notch element and which lie on a plane spaced apart from and perpendicular to the plane defined by the first surface of the base plate . The baseplate may optionally include a connecting grid to support the notch antenna elements.

In some embodiments an angle at which a notch antenna element extends from the first surface of the substrate with respect to a surface plane of the substrate decreases as a distance of the notch antenna element from a central point of the notch array antenna increases. A base area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements can be greater than a top area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements. Alternatively the base area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements can be less than a top area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements.

In some embodiments a pair of intersecting notch antenna elements may be orthogonally disposed to prove a dual polarized notch element. The vertical edge at the boundary where the two orthogonal notch element sides meet forms a spine which in the current state of the art remains orthogonal also to the plane of the base plate and parallel to the axis down the middle of each notch. In this embodiment a vector down a spine of the orthogonal notches becomes systematically different from a spinal vector of at least one other notch antenna element with respect to a spinal vector at a central point of the notch array antenna just as the axis down the middle of each notch antenna element systematically varies.

In some embodiments the notch antenna element axis may include a first portion that is substantially normal i.e. orthogonal straight with respect to the first surface of the base plate a second portion disposed at a second angle with respect to the first surface of the base plate and a third portion that is substantially normal i.e. orthogonal straight with respect to the first surface of the base plate. Alternatively the notch antenna element axis may include a first portion disposed at a first angle with respect to the first surface of the base plate a second portion that is substantially normal i.e. orthogonal straight with respect to the first surface of the base plate and a third portion disposed at a third angle with respect to the first surface of the base plate.

According to another aspect of the concepts systems and techniques described herein a tapered notch array includes a base plate having first and second opposing surfaces and a plurality of notch antenna elements projecting from a surface of the base plate and organized in a regular spacing in one or two directions along the first surface of the base plate. Each of the plurality of notch antenna elements is formed by a gap between a pair of conductive fin shaped elements projecting from the first surface of the base plate and each of the plurality of notch antenna elements has a notch antenna axis corresponding to a central longitudinal axis of the notch antenna element. In an embodiment the angle at which each notch antenna axis intersects the base plate is different from at least one other notch antenna axis.

In some embodiments each notch antenna element axis is defined along a centerline of one of the plurality of notch antenna elements. Each notch antenna element axis can extend from the first surface of the base plate at systematically varying angles with respect to an axis perpendicular to the base plate and each notch antenna element axis in each of the plurality of notch antenna elements has systematically varying lengths such that a plurality of first endpoints of each notch antenna element axis lie on a plane equidistant in a perpendicular direction to the first surface of the base plate forming a notch array antenna. In some embodiments a plurality of first endpoints of each notch antenna element axis coincident with ends of the notch elements lie on a plane spaced apart from and parallel to the first surface of the base plate. The plane is thus spaced a constant height above the base plate surface and each of the notch antenna elements extending from the first surface of the base plate has varying lengths so as to terminate on the plane.

A spacing between first ends of each notch antenna element at a bottom of the notch array antenna may be less than a spacing between second ends of each notch antenna element at a top of the notch array antenna. The baseplate may include an open grid which defines the spacing of each notch antenna element at the bottom of the notch array antenna.

In some embodiments an angle at which a notch antenna element extends from the first surface of the substrate changes as a distance of the notch antenna element from a central point of the notch array antenna increases. In one embodiment a notch antenna element axis includes a first portion that is substantially straight with respect to the first surface of the base plate a second portion disposed at a second angle with respect to the first surface of the base plate and a third portion that is substantially straight with respect to the first surface of the base plate. A base area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements may be greater than a top area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements. Alternatively a base area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements may be less than a top area of each of the plurality of notch antenna elements.

The present disclosure is directed toward a notch array antenna or more simply notch array comprised of a plurality of notch antenna elements or more simply notch elements projecting from a surface of a base plate at varying angles to provide an array having an expanding notch element structure. Such an expansion eliminates the need for dilation and for additional packaging space and also provides the array having an increased aperture size. A resulting increase in array aperture size can provide improved gain for a notch array. This approach may be utilized with linear arrays planar arrays or any other array configuration.

In some embodiments the dimensions of one notch antenna element relative to another notch element can be manipulated to expand on array lattice structure without changing an overall height of the notch array. This avoids an increase to an overall array depth and also avoids additional path losses associated with using a separate dilation layer. By varying the lengths of the angled notch antenna elements a lattice dimensional change e.g. an effective increase or decrease in antenna element spacing in the notch array can be provided. Furthermore the expanding lattice notch antenna allows optimum sizing of a final array aperture while maintaining a planar surface as compared to a conformal array which attempts to follow an outer surface of the platform and thus causing other significant engineering difficulties.

Referring now to in which like elements are provided having reference designations throughout several views a notch array antenna includes a base plate having a plurality of notch antenna elements extending from a first surface of the base plate . Notch elements extend or project from base plate at varying angles to provide array having an expanding element structure.

In some embodiments the notch antenna elements are coupled directly to the surface of the base plate . In other embodiments a connecting grid may optionally be disposed over the base plate and may be used to secure the notch antenna elements to the surface of the base plate .

First ends of the notch antenna elements are organized in a regular spacing in one or more directions along the base plate surface . In the illustrative embodiment of the notch elements are provided as dual polarized notch antenna elements and are disposed in two orthogonal directions i.e. x and y directions along surface . Thus array is provided as a so called dual polarized planar array. It should of course be appreciated that the concepts systems and techniques described herein may be applied to single polarized notch elements and to linear arrays or any other array configuration.

Notch antenna elements may be organized relative to an axis that is perpendicular to base plate surface and relative to a central expansion point i.e. a center of lattice expansion . Thus is this illustrative embodiment a number of unique notch subassemblies are axially symmetric about the center of element expansion .

In the notch array one or more of the notch elements may have different dimensions and properties than other elements in the array. For example the notch elements may have different lengths and or extend at different angles from base plate surface . By varying angles dimensions and possibly other properties of the notch array elements an expanding lattice notch antenna can be provided whereby an area of a first end e.g. top bottom of the notch array antenna may be greater than an area of a second end e.g. top bottom of the notch array antenna . Furthermore as will be discussed in greater detail below a spacing between the notch antenna elements at the first end may be different from the spacing between the notch antenna elements at the second end to provide the larger area i.e. an increased array aperture size and an improved gain for the notch array antenna .

As may be most clearly seen in linear notch array in each of the notch antenna elements has a notch element axis defined along a centerline of the notch. Each of the notch antenna elements are arranged such that axes extends from the surface of the base plate at systematically varying angles with respect to normal axis such that a plurality of end points at second ends of the notch antenna elements lie on a plane spaced apart from and parallel to a plane defined by the surface of the base plate . Thus the element centerlines and thus the notches are not parallel and thus are not symmetric. Breaking the symmetry between the notch antenna elements in this way permits an area expansion of the notch array antenna aperture.

For example in the illustrative embodiment of axes of notch antenna elements nearest to central expansion point of the notch array antenna extend at angle from baseplate surface which is almost perpendicular from surface of the base plate . However as a distance from which a notch antenna element is spaced from central expansion point increases the angle at which the axis of the respective notch antenna element extends from the surface of the base plate changes. In this illustrative embodiment the angle of the axis as measured from an outermost edge of the array and from surface decreases. For example the angle of axis is greater than the angle of axis and is also greater than the angle of axis . Furthermore in such an embodiment as the distance from which the notch antenna element is spaced from the central expansion point on the base plate increases a length of the respective notch antenna element increases relative to a notch antenna element nearer to the central expansion point . Increasing the length of the spaced elements results in the second ends of each of the elements terminating in the same plane e.g. plane in .

As shown in the notch antenna elements begin to taper or flare the further away they are spaced from the central expansion point . This organization of the notch antenna elements provides an expansion of the notch array antenna . In particular a base area i.e. an area proximate base surface of the notch array antenna is smaller than a top area of notch array antenna . i.e. an area at the second ends of the notches distal from base surface . For example a base area of notch array antenna may have dimensions set at below a unit cell grating lobe limit d d based on some maximum frequency and scan angle of an intended operation and application. At the base or bottom of notch array antenna the array conforms to these limits. However over a length of the notch antenna elements the notch array antenna expands to a slightly larger notch array antenna at the top e.g. at plane in which the top spacing of the notch elements at the array aperture is greater but still within an allowable limit based upon a grating lobe limit for the notch array antenna .

This expansion results in one or more notch antenna elements tilting at a different angle relative to the normal of the central expansion point . Thus the end result can be a an increased area gain as the tip of the notch antenna elements have a larger cell size and thus lattice spacing than at the base of the notch array antenna b no dilation losses as there was no need to incorporate a feed distribution layer between electronics and radiator c due to slight decollimation of each notch antenna element broadside gain is slightly decreased in exchange for slightly lower initial gain rolloff with scan off broadside and d there may be virtually no or very small weight change since the growth is all in the air in the notch gaps of each notch antenna element .

For example in one embodiment in which the cell size is defined as dx dyat the base of the array e.g. unit cell in and dx dyat the tip or aperture of the array e.g. unit cell in the net area gain is the ratio of dx dx . Thus for a notch array antenna having 60 notch antenna elements with 5 expansion between dxand dxmay result in adding the area which is the equivalent of adding six 6 additional conventional unit cells. In some embodiments the number of notch antenna elements used in notch array are selected such that they are axially symmetric about central expansion point .

It should be noted that although the central expansion point is illustrated at a center of the array the location of the central expansion point may be selected to suit the needs of a particular application. Thus any point on the base of the array may be selected as an expansion point from which notch antenna elements may be organized systematically according to the needs of a particular application. The expansion may begin from some selected point on base plate and each subsequent notch antenna element or row or column of notch antenna elements can be oriented differently from a preceding one. For example the expansion point may be offset or off center on a surface of base plate with respect to a center point of the array.

In the illustrative linear notch array embodiment of notch antenna elements nearest the central expansion point may have a shorter length as measured along the notch axes relative to notch antenna elements farther away from the central expansion point . Furthermore notch antenna elements nearest to the central expansion point may extend from the surface of the base plate at a larger angle e.g. closer to perpendicular than notch antenna elements further away from the central expansion point . By varying the lengths of the angled notch antenna elements each endpoint of the plurality of notch antenna elements may lie i.e. end in a single plane that runs parallel with a plane defined by the surface of the base plate . Thus the height of the notch array antenna i.e. the vertical distance from the base plate surface to plane remains the same while each of the notch antenna elements tilt at varying angles relative to the normal of the central expansion point and a bottom face of notch array antenna and top face of notch array antenna remain planar.

In some embodiments each notch antenna elements in array antenna has the same or substantially similar design and properties as another notch antenna element . Alternatively one or more notch antenna elements may have varying designs or properties in array antenna . For example one or more notch antenna elements may have varying lengths and thus may behave differently from another notch antenna element in array antenna .

Now referring to each of the notch antenna elements includes a first conductive element or conductive fin and a second conductive element or conductive fin projecting from the surface of the base plate . A balun not shown but visible in as part of connecting grid may be used to couple notch antenna element to the surface of base plate . The radiating portion of notch element i.e. the notch is formed by a gap or spacing between the first and second conductive elements . In some embodiments the notch antenna element may be provided from a substrate having conductive regions disposed thereon or removed to form the notch. In other embodiments e.g. as shown in conductors may be cut or otherwise formed to provide the first and second fins . In either case the gap increases along the length or height of the notch antenna element to match a transmission line impedance at the bottom to a free space impedance at the top. In some embodiments gap for each notch antenna element may be the same size at any particular height along a z axis i.e. first conductive element and second conductive element are spaced the same distance apart at any at any particular height above base plate . Alternatively the size of gap for one or more notch antenna elements may be different from another notch antenna element at any particular height above base plate .

In some embodiments first conductive element and second conductive element may be substantially similar with respect to each other in terms of material shape and properties. Notch antenna element has an axis that can be defined along a centerline of the notch antenna element e.g. centerline of gap between first conductive element and second conductive element . It should be noted that notch antenna elements have a vector describing gap e.g. a line orthogonal to axis at given height in a z axis above base plate that is parallel in two orthogonal polarizations planes. In an embodiment notch antenna element is a tapered notch element. However stepped or other types of notch elements may also be used.

Now referring to a portion of conventional notch array is shown from a plurality of orthogonally disposed notch elements with each notch element disposed in one of a plurality of unit cells . Each unit cell includes a pair of orthogonal elements . Each unit cell in conventional array defines an area containing at least one notch antenna element. In dual polarized array each unit cell contains one notch antenna element in a first plane e.g. first notch element and one notch antenna element in a second orthogonal plane second notch element . Significantly the area of each unit cell is the same at both the top and bottom of the array .

As illustrated in the first and second notch elements intersect at one of their respective edges and thus their respective phase centers may be offset with respect to the unit cell and be aligned with a border of the unit cell . The phase centers correspond to a top point of a notch antenna axis i.e. vector of a notch antenna element such as notch axis in and notch axis in .

Referring now to unit cells associated with an expanding notch array such as notch array of have a unit cell at the top of the notch array antenna being different in size from unit cells at the bottom of the array. This is due to the expansion of the notch array antenna .

In this illustrative embodiment unit cells at the top of the notch array antenna are greater in area than unit cells at the bottom of the notch array antenna . Each unit cell at the top of the notch array antenna is the same size and each unit cell at the bottom of the notch array antenna is the same size.

The change in the unit cell sizing from one level or plane of the notch array antenna relative to a different level or plane is due to the varied angles and properties of the respective notch antenna elements making up the unit cell . As an angle at which the notch antenna elements extend from the surface of base plate decreases as measured from an edge of the base relative to a distance from the central expansion point e.g. moves farther away from the central expansion point notch antenna elements systematically flare out at a greater angle relative to a notch antenna element closer to the central expansion point . Thus the length of unit cells as measured along a central axis of each notch antenna element as the unit cells move further away from the expansion point.

Base plate may be provided from a conductive material or may be provided as a dielectric substrate having a ground plane disposed over a surface thereof. In some embodiments base plate is a dielectric substrate having a surface with a conductive material coated or otherwise disposed there over. In other embodiments base plate may not be a physical solid at all but simply the plane at which the notch antenna elements or connecting grid ends.

Notch antenna elements are disposed on and coupled to base plate . As stated above notch antenna elements may be coupled directly to the base plate or a connecting grid may be used to couple the notch antenna elements to the base plate . Connecting gird may be used to control an angle at which notch antenna elements project from the surface of the base plate and may also function to secure the notches to the base plate . For example a portion of notch antenna element that is coupled to or embedded into connecting grid may be substantially perpendicular to the surface of the base plate and the remaining portion of notch antenna element e.g. portion not embedded within connecting gird may tilt at a desired angle from the surface of the base plate .

As shown in conductive fins intersect and a spinal vector corresponds to an axis at the point of intersection. Spinal vectors associated with unit cells closest to the central expansion point are slightly offset from a perpendicular angle relative to the surface of base plate . However as the distance between a unit cell and the central expansion point increases the angle of the intersection spine associated with the unit cell differs from the angle of a spine associated with a unit cell closer to central expansion point . This change in angle at which the spinal vectors extend from the surface of the base plate may be directly related to the ratio between the size of all unit cells vs. the height of the notch and the total count of elements in the notch antenna array that exist away from the central expansion point.

Referring now to a plurality of top and bottom unit cells are shown. As can be seen in there is a change in unit cell size from the bottom to the top of notch array antenna . Specifically a top area unit cell indicated by boundary of a notch element is greater than a bottom area unit cell indicated by boundary of the same notch element. As can be seen in the area of a unit cell at the top of the array i.e. at the end of a notch element furthest from base plate surface as illustrated by element in for example is increased relative to the area of the unit cell at the bottom of the notch element i.e. at the end of the notch element closest to base plate surface .

Unit cell outlines represent the unit cell boundary at the top of notch array antenna element and unit cell outlines represent unit cell boundary at the bottom of the same notch antenna element. For example unit cell corresponds to the unit cell size at the top of one notch array antenna element and unit cell outline corresponds to the unit cell size at the bottom of the same notch antenna element . By varying the angles and lengths of the notch antenna elements relative to central expansion point the top unit cell area of notch array antenna has been increased relative to the bottom unit cell area i.e. unit cells sizes have increased .

For a dual polarized array the scaling factor between the bottom and top unit cells is the same in two orthogonal directions e.g. uniform . At any cross section plane parallel to base plate or plane e.g. the metal describing the notch gap remains aligned with the orthogonal polarization planes as does the gap centered about each axis . Thus the resulting polarizations to which the notch antenna elements are responsive are not geometrically altered when looking at a face of the notch array antenna .

Referring again to it should be appreciated that unit cells can be organized in a Cartesian grid arrangement with an inter element spacing dx dy and a height dz which provides a taper length for broadband matching. Thus in one illustrative embodiment a unit cell size e.g. inter element spacing at the bottom can be described as having the relationship dx dyand the top can be described as having the relationship dx dy. In other embodiments the scaling factor between the bottom unit cells and top unit cells may be non uniform. For example a unit cell size at the bottom may be dx dyand dx dyat the top of the notch array antenna .

Alternatively in some embodiments the unit cells at the top of the notch array antenna may be smaller than the spacing between notch antenna elements at the bottom of notch array antenna . For example in some embodiments the growth of notch array antenna can be reversed to couple a smaller notch array lattice to a larger electronics lattice.

Now referring to a spacing i.e. center to center unit cell spacing e.g. x1 between notch antenna elements at a bottom of the notch array antenna is different than a spacing e.g. x2 between notch antenna elements at a top of the notch array antenna . The angles of the notch antenna elements and their respective length can be varied causing the spacing between top unit cells to be different relative to a corresponding bottom unit cell change.

This expansion of the spacing between notch antenna elements provides a larger lattice spacing at the array aperture which can improve a gain performance of the notch array antenna while maintaining the overall height of the notch array antenna . This manipulation of the lengths of one notch element relative to another can improve the performance of notch array antenna without altering the dimensions e.g. height restrictions of a particular application of the notch array antenna .

The surface of base plate may optionally include connecting grid to receive and mechanically and or electrically couple notch antenna elements to base plate . In some embodiments the connecting grid may be provided having an egg crate structure to receive and couple to dual polarized notch antenna elements . Notch antenna elements may be provided from intersecting fin shaped conductors and be formed into a tree shape configuration. The tree shape configuration may be coupled to at least one of the egg crate formations on the surface of base plate . Notch antenna elements may be mounted to the surface of base plate atop balun gridwork with alignment features such as pins and slots. In other embodiments notch antenna elements may be coupled to base plate by machining on a surface of base plate or by providing the notch elements as a near net cast part.

Now referring to each of the top area unit cells have a larger area than each of the bottom area unit cells . An area of the top area unit cells may be defined by a length multiplied by the width e.g. X Y and an area of the bottom area unit cells may also be defined by the length multiplied by the width X Y . Due the area differences between the top and bottom area unit cells an expansion occurs in the array aperture from the bottom to the top of the notch array antenna. Furthermore there is some displacement from a bottom area unit cell to a corresponding top area unit cell. Thus an angle of a central axis of each unit cell relative to a surface e.g. surface of base plate may vary depending on a distance from a central expansion point of the notch array antenna.

For example a first unit cell has a central axis that extends from the surface at an angle . A second unit cell has a central axis that extends from the surface at an angle . A third unit cell has a central axis that extends from the surface at an angle . In an embodiment the first unit cell is the closest to the central expansion point of the notch array antenna and the third unit cell is the farthest away from the central expansion point. Thus angles of each central axis of each unit cell may have a relationship defined whereby 

The antenna designs and design techniques described herein have application in a wide variety of different applications. For example the antennas may be used as active or passive antenna elements for missile sensors that require bandwidth higher gain to support link margin and wide impedance bandwidth to support higher data rates within a small volume. They may also be used as antennas for land based sea based or satellite communications. Because antennas having small antenna volume are possible the antennas are well suited for use on small missile airframes. The antennas may also be used in for example handheld communication devices commercial aircraft communication systems automobile based communications systems e.g. personal communications traffic updates emergency response communication collision avoidance systems etc. Satellite Digital Audio Radio Service SDARS communications proximity readers and other RFID structures radar systems global positioning system GPS communications and or others. In at least one embodiment the antenna designs are adapted for use in medical imaging systems. The antenna designs described herein may be used for both transmit and receive operations. Many other applications are also possible.

It should of course be understood that while the present technology has been described with respect to disclosed embodiments numerous variations alternate embodiments equivalents etc. are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims. For example any of a number of elements may be used in the phased array. Dual polarization systems with the two polarizations not oriented orthogonal to one another are another obvious variation.

In addition it is intended that the scope of the present claims include all other foreseeable equivalents to the elements and structures as described herein and with reference to the drawing figures. Accordingly the subject matter sought to be protected herein is to be limited only by the scope of the claims and their equivalents.

Having described preferred embodiments which serve to illustrate various concepts structures and techniques which are the subject of this patent it will now become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating these concepts structures and techniques may be used. For example it should be noted that individual concepts features or elements and techniques of different embodiments described herein may be combined to form other embodiments not specifically set forth above. Furthermore various concepts features or elements and techniques which are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable sub combination. It is thus expected that other embodiments not specifically described herein are also within the scope of the following claims.

Accordingly it is submitted that that scope of the patent should not be limited to the described embodiments but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the following claims.

All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

