---

title: Conference call information sharing via interaction with social networking data
abstract: Examples of associating user information from social network sites with a conference call application may include a series of operations. One example operation may provide receiving a command to share at least one social networking application with a scheduled conference call and accessing an application programming interface (API) of the social networking application, and sharing user profile information with a graphical user interface (GUI) application of the scheduled conference call corresponding to the command to share the social networking application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407772&OS=09407772&RS=09407772
owner: West Corporation
number: 09407772
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150929
---
This application is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 480 857 filed Sep. 9 2014 and entitled CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION SHARING VIA INTERACTION WITH SOCIAL NETWORKING DATA which is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 065 982 filed Oct. 29 2013 and entitled CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION SHARING VIA INTERACTION WITH SOCIAL NETWORKING DATA now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 837 701 which is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 452 304 filed Apr. 20 2012 and entitled CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION SHARING VIA INTERACTION WITH SOCIAL NETWORKING DATA now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 594 292 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention relates to a method and apparatus of sharing user information with conference call participants during live conference call sessions and more particularly to sharing certain information through pre registered user information sources such as social networking websites.

End users who participate in audio video teleconferencing and conference calls today do not have access to any contextual information about the various different people with whom they are speaking. Examples of contextual information may include the individuals business roles relevant social characteristics likes and dislikes and just plain background information that may assist others with relating to such persons during a conversation that is already not being conducted face to face. Other examples of individual contextual information may include everyday synergies such as favorite sports teams personal preferences school alumni associations prior employment history companies etc.

Currently there is no easy way for people to share certain personal information in real time and within the context of a live phone conference. Additionally there is no present application that allows a user to designate what information is shared with others in the context of a particular conference call. For example a book of the month club may hold conference calls that encourage users to share more interests with others for the purpose of making friends and sharing interests. In another example a user participating in a business meeting may only wish to share certain professional credentials and only one portion of personal information in an effort to appear professional at all times. Regardless of the purpose of the meeting conference calls and related social meetings should provide users with seamless access to their personal information and corresponding information sharing applications.

One embodiment of the present invention may include a method that provides receiving user credentials to access a user account authenticating the user credentials and permitting access to the user account and receiving at least one command to share at least one social networking application with a scheduled conference call. The method may further include accessing an application programming interface API of the at least one social networking application and sharing user profile information with a graphical user interface GUI application of the scheduled conference call corresponding to the at least one command to share the at least one social networking application.

Another example embodiment of the present invention may include an apparatus that provides a receiver configured to receive user credentials to access a user account and a processor configured to authenticate the user credentials and permitting access to the user account and receive at least one command to share at least one social networking application with a scheduled conference call. The processor is further configured to access an application programming interface API of the at least one social networking application and sharing user profile information with a graphical user interface GUI application of the scheduled conference call corresponding to the at least one command to share the at least one social networking application.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus and system as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases example embodiments some embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases example embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In addition while the term message has been used in the description of embodiments of the present invention the invention may be applied to many types of network data such as packet frame datagram etc. For purposes of this invention the term message also includes packet frame datagram and any equivalents thereof. Furthermore while certain types of messages and signaling are depicted in exemplary embodiments of the invention the invention is not limited to a certain type of message and the invention is not limited to a certain type of signaling.

In operation the communication network of processes call setup and call maintenance procedures which are used to setup and maintain a conference call leg for each individual call participant . The communication link s may include transferring real time voice and or video data information over communication links such as wireless networks e.g. GSM CDMA G G etc. wireline networks e.g. landline telephony Internet satellite cable networks or any other data medium using standard communication protocols.

Referring to each of the participants may be invited to participate in a conference that is setup by one particular moderator for example purposes it is assumed that participant is the moderator . Each of the participants may receive a text message SMS email or other invitation message to join the conference call at a particular time as part of a conference call application program. When the participants dial in or connect to the conference call and are placed in a virtual lobby or waiting status the moderator may be responsible for beginning the session which allows each of the participants to begin hearing speaking and or viewing one another for the duration of the call.

The participants may be pre enrolled or setup with a profile with one or more of the commonly known social networking websites e.g. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn etc. . For example some users may utilize dozens of social networking websites while others may only have their information prepared with one social networking website. According to one example embodiment the conference call participants may enroll in a conference call user profile service that combines user profile information from the social networking websites into a common information source that is utilized by the conference call system of the present application.

Example embodiments provide the conference call participants with the opportunity to view social profiles of the call participants prior to during and after a specific conference call. Additionally the participants may be afforded the opportunity to screen or filter some or all portions of their various social profiles and related information so that fellow participants can only view the selected portions of their profile.

According to one example a participant may wish to share only certain portions of their personal information with the conference call sessions by effectively limiting the amount of information viewable by others. For example a user may wish to share certain background information during a conference call such as education job address etc. while not sharing personal blog entries comments pictures tweets etc. The user profile server may enable limiting variables aimed at reducing the user s shared content via user enabled filters setup through the conference call management system of the present application. Example filters may include YES personal information NO blog data NO live feeds NO image data etc. In this example the user s personal information entered during setup and which is linked to the user s profile information may be shared while any other types of data associated with the user s social networking profile may be prevented from being shared. The filtering may be performed at the user profile server as part of the conference call application.

The conference call system and related application may provide the capability to remember user preferences for example for a regular weekly call with the same participants a default option may be to only share profile information. However certain users may wish to share blog entries and other information with other call participants to bring more discussion topics together and to provide weekly updates ahead of time without having to speak or introduce the content for the first time during the call.

The information sharing application may default to the social profile options that the specific participant s selects most often e.g. what the participant views of other peoples profiles and or what the user shares of their own initiative . The information sharing application may also alert the conference call participant s moderator if another participant has commented specifically about them or their company in a public context twitter facebook blog entry etc. . A conference call participant may setup audit filters to search for such information of interest ACME corporation and have each of the participants social network information sources scanned parsed and shared instantly during the conference call session via a live dashboard environment.

Resource description framework RDF site summary really simple site summary RSS feeds may be incorporated into a user s conference call information sharing profile. In general RSS is a consortium of web feed formats used to publish frequently updated works such as blog entries news headlines audio and video into a standardized format. An RSS document or feed web feed channel includes full or summarized text plus metadata such as publishing dates and authorship.

A standardized XML file format allows the information to be published once and viewed by many different programs and applications. RSS feeds can be read using a standard RSS reader which may be web based desktop based or mobile device based. Normally a user would subscribe to a feed by entering into the reader interface the feed s URI or by clicking a feed icon in a web browser that initiates the subscription process. The RSS reader checks the user s subscribed feeds regularly for new work downloads any updates and provides a user interface to monitor and read the feeds. RSS feeds allow users to avoid manually inspecting all of the websites and user information sources of interest and instead subscribe to such source such that all new content is pushed onto their browsers when it becomes available. In the conference call application of the present invention a RSS feed may be initiated and provided as a shared information source for a particular user.

According to one example a moderator may initiate the sharing of information by setting a default information sharing filter that allows access to all shared information and related applications as authorized by each participant and their corresponding user account. The individual participants may be required to change the shared information profile before or during a conference call in order to privatize such information. Alternatively participants may elect certain filters to pull feeds or entries on a blog or information sharing website to avoid any unwanted information sharing. For example prior to a conference call one participant may set a filter to remove all entries and related submissions that are combined with the word ACME. Such an active filtering operation may ensure that the user s posts and previously stored information sources eliminate the term ACME so as not to form an opinion about the corporation one or more of the participants is currently employed.

One view lists the participants by name another view provides default information about each participant . One example would be title while other participants may customize their dashboard to display the locations companies colleges attended etc. among other profile information. The information providers which are affiliated with one or more participants are also illustrated for convenience in a sub window frame . The default filters initiated by the moderator may be setup to receive all ACME company instances included in each user s profile information and other user information sources in the window portion A.

Referring to the window portion A based on the ACME filter setup by the moderator there were two participants with shared information that included the ACME parameter filter. The first participant had a profile entry that may have been on any or more of the participant s profiles including facebook twitter and or LinkeIn. The other participant 5 with an ACME parameter present in his or her shared information had a blog entry that commented on the corporation and recent news.

Window portion B provides another view of personal information gathered by the conference call information sharing application which includes a common interest among the participants. In this example 5 out of 6 participants all except participant 2 had a designated NFL favorite team. The common interest parameter may be setup to find the most relevant parameter to the total number of participants. The common interest parameter by default may attempt to create a category i.e. NFL teams that is based on the relevancy score from the total number of participants. Here 5 out of 6 or 83 of the participants had a designated favorite national football league NFL team.

Additional operations may provide receiving a command to disallow access to another social network application different from the shared social network application. A user may desire to share information from one third party information source while restricting access to others. The APIs of each of the various social networking sites may be accessed by the system to manage user memberships and their corresponding relationships with the conference call application. The command sent to share the social networking application may permit a portion of the user profile information to be shared and disallows another portion of the user profile from being shared i.e. sharing work profile information and disallowing personal information . For example the disallowed portion of the user profile may include media information such as one or more of photo files video files and audio files. The shared interest information between the two or more conference call participants during the scheduled conference call may be displayed to include indicia on the graphical user interface GUI application of the scheduled conference call to indicate a trend. For example the trend may be a density indicator corresponding to a number of conference call participants having a same shared interest see C of . The indicia may include a category and a density indicator that is based one or more conference call participants.

The operations of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a computer program executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. For example a computer program may reside in random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components. For example illustrates an example network element which may represent any of the above described components.

As illustrated in a memory and a processor may be discrete components of the network entity that are used to execute an application or set of operations. The application may be coded in software in a computer language understood by the processor and stored in a computer readable medium such as the memory . Furthermore a software module may be another discrete entity that is part of the network entity and which contains software instructions that may be executed by the processor . In addition to the above noted components of the network entity the network entity may also have a transmitter and receiver pair configured to receive and transmit communication signals not shown .

Although an exemplary embodiment of the system method and non transitory computer readable medium of the present application has been illustrated in the accompanied drawings and described in the foregoing detailed description it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as set forth and defined by the following claims. For example the capabilities of the systems illustrated in may be performed by one or more of the modules or components described herein or in a distributed architecture. For example all or part of the functionality performed by the individual modules may be performed by one or more of these modules. Further the functionality described herein may be performed at various times and in relation to various events internal or external to the modules or components. Also the information sent between various modules can be sent between the modules via at least one of a data network the Internet a voice network an Internet Protocol network a wireless device a wired device and or via plurality of protocols. Also the messages sent or received by any of the modules may be sent or received directly and or via one or more of the other modules.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described it is to be understood that the embodiments described are illustrative only and the scope of the invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims when considered with a full range of equivalents and modifications e.g. protocols hardware devices software platforms etc. thereto.

