---

title: User assembly of lightweight user interface for games
abstract: Technology is described for user assembly of lightweight user interfaces for games, e.g., massively multiplayer online games. The technology can include a set of pre-selectable action modules; an interface element, a messaging element, and a display element for each pre-selectable action module; and a component configured to enable a user to select a subset from the set of pre-selectable action modules. A first subset of the pre-selectable action modules can provide a different user interface than a second subset of the pre-selectable action modules when at least one pre-selectable action module is in the first subset but not the second subset. Action modules may be capable of communicating using a messaging platform with at least one server computing device and relates to a massively multiplayer online gaming system operating at a server computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09364763&OS=09364763&RS=09364763
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09364763
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150615
---
This application is a Continuation application under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. Ser. No. 13 878 126 filed on Apr. 5 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 101 840 which is a National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C 371 of PCT Application Ser. No. PCT US12 69307 filed on Dec. 12 2012. The disclosures of both Applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Many massively multiplayer online games MMOs e.g. online immersive virtual world games attempt to provide some sort of lightweight experience to keep players engaged and involved when they are away from a desktop computer game console or other system capable of playing the full game. Lightweight experiences are those involving browsers smaller programs than full game clients or mobile computing devices e.g. tablet computing devices smartphones etc. Conventional MMOs however have extremely limited interaction for situations with reduced interface levels like mobile or other small devices they either have a full interface corresponding to their desktop or game console counterparts or very little access at all. For example some MMOs offer a subscription plan to enable users also referred to herein as players to participate in a minimal way e.g. to craft or build game related paraphernalia using mobile computing devices. However vendors of MMOs are incentivized to provide as much of an immersive experience to game players as possible no matter what device they are using because game players are typically willing to spend a lot of money to enhance their gameplay.

Providing an immersive experience on mobile computing devices is challenging because of several problems. One problem is that there is limited screen space on mobile computing devices. A full game experience available on a large screen is very difficult to mimic on smaller screens. Another problem is that processors used in mobile devices presently are not as powerful as the processors used in desktop computers and game consoles. Still another problem relates to game server design. For various types of games e.g. database centric games where each character is one of many people placing demands on a database each player who is allowed to interact through the web or other lightweight environment provides roughly the same server load as a desktop full graphics player because the use by both players is translated to a series of database calls. The players may consider a lighter web interface less than the full experience but web interfaces would still cause massive slowdowns if applied to game servers. For at least these reasons conventional lightweight interfaces are generally limited to interactions with servers that do not enable gameplay and so cannot slow down game servers.

Many MMOs are now being architected on datacenters e.g. AWS offered by Amazon or Azure offered by Microsoft . Datacenter based game architectures can handle large amounts of user activities if they can be appropriately managed and if the interface design problem which is different for every mix of activities a user might want can be solved. Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Technology is described for user assembly of lightweight user interfaces for games e.g. massively multiplayer online games. In various embodiments the technology can include a set of pre selectable action modules an interface element a messaging element and a display element for each pre selectable action module and a component configured to enable a user to select a subset from the set of pre selectable action modules. A first subset of the pre selectable action modules can provide a different user interface than a second subset of the pre selectable action modules when at least one pre selectable action module is in the first subset but not the second subset. Action modules may be capable of communicating using a messaging platform with at least one server computing device and relates to a massively multiplayer online gaming system operating at a server computing device.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the drawings can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Technology is described for user assembly of lightweight user interfaces for games e.g. massively multiplayer online games the technology . In various embodiments the technology enables a user to select one or more action modules from a palette of action modules. The action modules are capable of receiving input from users emitting user interface elements and communicating with server computing devices e.g. game servers. A user can assemble a relatively lightweight user interface for the portions of the game that the user is interested in interacting with while using a mobile computing device. A user interface can be said to be a lightweight user interface when it does not appear to be cluttered or difficult to use. As one non limiting example an application designed for use at a mobile computing device is generally lightweight when compared to a user interface designed for an application that executes at a desktop computing device or game console e.g. because the application that executes at a desktop computing device or game console comparatively may include more features and options that are readily available. In contrast the application designed for use at a mobile computing device may offer fewer features or the features may be more hidden. By enabling users to select from a wide range of actions that are subcomponents of the greater game and to compose their selection of such actions the technology affords higher player engagement with reduced developer effort.

Various datacenter gaming platforms presently exist and new platforms continue to be newly developed or evolved. Many new datacenter gaming platforms are conceptually alike in that they generally use separate worker services joined together by queuing and messaging services. Separate services therefore may handle player inventory crafting chatting mapping etc. including finer divisions of labor such as rendering individual components. Datacenter structures are also generally more scalable with improvements being made continuously as gaming moves from a big database mainframe model to smaller and smaller separate services that can exist in larger populations.

The disclosed technology can leverage the separable messaging nature of datacenter gaming platforms to offer users a chance to gather user interface elements together at the users option to build an interface panel that users can then access via a web browser or app so they can take part in whatever part of the game they prefer. The game programmers can offer pre selected usable actions as self contained packages modules that provide appropriate messages for each action address them to the appropriate datacenter queue and provide logic for displaying the messages returned from the datacenter. When a user performs game crafting exercises or otherwise interacts with a game corresponding messages are sent to game servers to change gameplay status e.g. so that all game players can see or otherwise experience the gameplay. Datacenter services used by MMOs are generally scalable because many e.g. hundreds or even thousands of players may be concurrently playing a game. Thus adding direct messaging components to a lightweight user interface that communicate with only the pertinent queue or service components e.g. instead of the entire set of gaming services does not affect other gameplay e.g. users fighting monsters or navigating the wilderness. Consequently the datacenter based services can be scaled more finely to respond to populations of users at web or other lightweight user interfaces or even full games at desktop computers or game consoles. For example a user might drag crafting controls to the mobile computing device lightweight user interface so that the user can have their character craft objects while they commute drag chat windows and guild controls so that they can navigate a long journey or sail a ship carrying friends. The technology thus enables players to maintain a high level of engagement customized to their own desired interests despite the use of a small mobile computing device.

In various embodiments use of a palette of pre selectable action modules enables users to compose a list or panel of user selected action modules. Each of the pre selectable action modules may contain an interface element for a user to interact with a messaging element to exchange messages with a datacenter based game and a display element for showing status or events. The user selected action modules are then stored and configured in a customized user interface e.g. a web interface that can be delivered over a network to a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device or any other computing device. The user selected action modules may be arranged and setup by the user at their desktop computing device or may be selectable and configurable at their mobile computing device.

The pre selectable action modules may include modules for convenience activities. For example in the game Second Life players often cannot even get dressed before logging into a venue resulting in semi naked avatars changing clothes in otherwise respectable environments such as professional gatherings. Enabling users to dress their avatar while offline is one example of an action module that would require only a few messages to implement and would not slow down servers based on datacenters because they need not interact with the same servers as the live gameplay users.

Various non game action modules are also contemplated. One example is an action module that enables the user to access the palette of web actions. Thus a user could access an application or web interface at which they select action modules that they will then use to interact with the game. Another example is an action module that renders game scenes occasionally e.g. showing a frame every few seconds while letting a user chat using Voice over Internet Protocol VOIP . Such a minimal interface provides a great deal of the non action function of a game with minor computation and hardware needs.

The technology includes modules that can send messages directly to inter service queues operating at a server computing device through a context manager which can be useful for datacenter game integration as well as a user composition operation that relieves developers of a great deal of interface design work while also enabling users to choose how they will make use of limited mobile screen space.

In various embodiments the technology may also enable merchandizing e.g. at an online store of the pre selectable action modules so that games can monetize additional engagement by users.

User and player as referred to herein can include humans machines or any other entity that is capable of interacting with MMO gaming systems. Although various embodiments are described in relation to mobile computing devices it is to be understood that the technology is suitable also for other types of computing devices e.g. to make it easier to interact with game servers without needing a full gaming experience.

Turning now to the figures is a flow diagram illustrating a routine invoked by the technology in various embodiments. In various embodiments the technology executes the routine at a client computing device e.g. a mobile computing device. The technology may invoke the routine when a user indicates to create or revise a lightweight user interface that suits the user s preference or specification. Lightweight user interfaces can be useful when a user desires to use some features of an MMO game at a mobile computing device. The user may generally play the MMO game e.g. using more of its gameplay features using a desktop computing device game console or other computing device at which lightweight user interfaces are not necessary or useful. The routine begins at block and continues at block . At block the routine receives a selection of action modules. As one example the technology may display a palette of pre selectable action modules to a user and a user interface for selecting one or more action modules. One or more of the selected action modules may each be capable of communicating using a messaging platform with at least one server computing device and may be related to a massively multiplayer online MMO gaming system operating at the server computing device. At block the routine displays a user interface based on the selected action modules e.g. user interface elements emitted by one or more of the selected action modules. At block the routine receives input from a user via the user interface displayed at block . At block the routine communicates to the server computing device an indication of the received user input by employing one or more of the selected action modules to interact with the at least one MMO gaming system operating at the server computing device. The communicated indication of the received user input may cause a game status change at the MMO gaming system that requires changes in how a third user interacts with an online game facilitated by the MMO gaming system. As one example the game status change can be to make paraphernalia available equip a player with a new weapon or defense etc. The routine then returns at block .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the logic illustrated in and described above and in each of the flow diagrams discussed below may be altered in various ways. For example the order of the logic may be rearranged operations may be performed in parallel illustrated logic may be omitted other logic may be included etc.

A user can thus select one or more of the pre selectable action modules and for use at a lightweight user interface. In various embodiments the user can select the pre selectable action modules and by selecting checkboxes dragging and dropping or using other user interface gestures commonly employed to select a subset of items.

One skilled in the art will recognize that pre selectable action modules are components that facilitate creation of lightweight user interfaces corresponding to a subset of features offered by MMO gaming systems. MMO gaming service providers can provide their users access to one or more pre selectable action modules for selection and combination to create a lightweight user interface to suit the users interests or needs to participate in MMO gaming while employing mobile computing devices.

The message manager may also prevent barrages of messages to prevent denial of service DOS type attacks against a datacenter game once a user interface is enabled for gameplay. The message manager could limit interaction rates to what is reasonable for gameplay and may include code for detecting automation so called game bots to ensure people do not use the action modules as a link through which to attack the system. The technology may include various features to prevent automation e.g. random reorganization or code obfuscation. In some embodiments the technology may not provide an application programming interface so as to prevent automated attacks.

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one or more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . One example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. One example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include an action module selector that is arranged to enable users to select action modules. Program data may include a list of selected action modules as is described herein. In some embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system e.g. to select and employ action modules. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . One example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media. The term computer readable storage media as used herein does not include communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant FDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

In an illustrative embodiment any of the operations processes etc. described herein can be implemented as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The computer readable instructions can be executed by a processor of a mobile unit a network element and or any other computing device.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

